member of the commission.– mr president, first of all thank you very much for inviting me here today, and very warm thanks to mr langen, both for his introductory remarks but most of all for the substantial work that has been done with the report and in the co-work with the shadow rapporteurs. the very fundamental thing here is that we are together in this, making sure that competition law is enforced and that it is done in a way that supports the everyday life of citizens. one obvious point is that powerful companies who are successful do not misuse their power, that we keep the market open, keep the playing field level, and make sure that every company has a fair chance of making it if they can attract consumers. as you well know, i have opened a public consultation on the work of the national competition agencies. we in the commission, and therefore hopefully also you, are very dependent on their strength and commitment, as well as the decisions they take using european law. i hope very much that together we can strengthen the competences of the national competition agencies and i will do my utmost to make sure that parliament will have full engagement in these efforts. i very much appreciate that you are focusing your attention on the work that we do when it comes to corporate taxation. i think this is very crucial to keeping the playing field level. if one company can pay very little or almost no taxes and another one just pays the taxes by the book, obviously there is a distortion of competition. last week we took a decision on the belgian ‘excess profit’ scheme, declaring that it is illegal under state aid legislation. first of all, because it gives multinationals a selective tax advantage that their domestic competitors cannot get. secondly, because instead of ensuring that profits are attributed to the right group company and taxed there, the system just exempted a proportion of profits from taxation. with this decision we take another step forward in ensuring that we have companies paying their fair share of taxes. but of course we need to do that in cooperation and i very much appreciate the work done here in parliament in the special committee on tax rulings but also in the working group on competition. keeping markets fair and open also relates to mergers. and here it is very important to have lively debates about how we apply our merger regulation. i think the report makes a very valuable contribution to that discussion and, in the end, merger control also relates to the consumer and the individual and making sure that the consumer can have affordable prices, high quality and, of course, choice. as the market has gone global, it is very important that our enforcement is global as well and i think it is very important that we do not give up on our european values but do our best to work with counterparts in the us, in china, in south africa, in south korea and in canada, to make sure that these values of fair and open competition are the values that we work with globally. we work with that in the international competition network, in the oecd and in un entities. i think this is very important, both when negotiating free trade agreements, where we are discovering anti-trust-relevant cartels and mergers, and when entering into state aid. in conclusion, i would say that a lot of things have happened. it is clearly reflected in your report, mr langen. we have worked on making digital markets work better by launching a sector inquiry into e-commerce; we have had cases concerning google and concerning qualcomm; we have acted to protect the internal market for energy with our cases involving gazprom and bulgaria energy holding; we have launched the first ever sector inquiry into state aid, looking into capacity mechanisms; and we continue our actions against cartels affecting products that consumers use every day. we have reviewed major cross-border mergers as general electric’s acquisition of alstom in energy-related businesses. but it all boils down to one thing – that we need very good cooperation with the european parliament; we need strong support for an open, competitive and fair market. in doing that we can both serve the interests of the european consumer and of the european citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to a number of specific points which are of particular interest to the committee on the internal market, but not only. the first concerns the digital single market: we need common rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would like to insist with you on the tax side: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not rigid. until there is an obligation to report in each country on what companies do and what they pay in taxes, we shall have a state of disparity which will end up dealing a very heavy blow to the expectations and potential of small businesses. i think that this limit must be quickly crossed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are several common and sensible elements in this annual report on competition, starting with the google case, the defence of whistleblowers, the country-by-country public reporting, for which we expect a short report in the spring from the commission. we want to raise awareness of the need for these measures. i do not think that the commission is going to be able to do anything about this, because it is not going to be able to do anything about the problems of the european union. the example of the german surplus on the balance of payments for several years is the most striking example. on the state aid issue, okay, let the commission finally sanction the multinationals. the problem is that sanctions are then paid back to those countries, such as the netherlands and luxembourg, which have encouraged these elusive practices. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. he should be given political responsibility instead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a specific question to put to the commissioner, and it relates to competition, unfair competition and state aid. in particular, it concerns one company, the largest steelworks in europe, ilva, which is located in the city of taranto. so i ask you: the commission intends to take these decisions because citizens, committees, associations and the five star movement, through its spokesmen, have continually sent reports, files denouncing unfair competition by this company and state aid which we must completely deny, because it is a company kept alive by an unconscious and irresponsible italian government.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank mr gabriel mato. the commission very strongly appreciates the draft report as prepared by the rapporteur, mr mato. it is obviously the result of a very good understanding of the issues which surround the status of bluefin tuna, a very important species. it provides a very valuable contribution and also some positive suggestions for the modification of the initial proposal. it is also important to remember that this proposal aims, as has already been explained, to transpose into eu law measures which were already adopted by iccat, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna. they were adopted in 2014, and they have been applicable to member states and operators since july 2015. it is important to say that this recovery plan has been very widely acknowledged as a success story, and the stock of bluefin tuna is well on its way towards recovery. having said that, there is and there can be no room for complacency. we still need to continue to give priority to the sustainable management of this important stock. measures adopted in the recovery plan by iccat are therefore crucial. many of the provisions of the recovery plan are directly applicable to all our member states. however, transposition is needed to ensure that the provisions applicable to natural or legal persons are also complied with in the european union. this is necessary to ensure that compliance is there – the compliance of the union with its international obligations – and it is also there to maintain the eu’s credibility in sustainable fisheries management. while this report largely meets our expectations, there are still some divergences. this is the case regarding the interpretation of the competences of the respective institutions when transposing provisions from the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos). however, we are confident that they can be solved. regarding the provisions for the empowerment of the commission to adopt delegated acts, the commission strongly believes that due to the frequent amendments of the recovery plan in iccat, this is a crucial element within the proposal. why? because such delegated acts are required in order to swiftly incorporate into eu law any future amendments of the recovery plan at iccat level. these amendments are bound to, and do, occur regularly. in these cases, going through the full ordinary legislative procedure very often impedes us from implementing new measures in time to ensure the european union’s compliance with our international obligations. the adoption of delegated acts by the commission provides the possibility to accurately and, most importantly, rapidly transpose iccat measures into eu law by amending only the non-essential elements of the legislative acts. this requires appropriate consultations including consultations at expert level. it also requires the timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council. the commission also believes that it should be empowered to adopt implementing acts. this is justified by the frequent need to establish how certain measures of the recovery plan should be implemented at the level of the eu. we need this to achieve a level playing field for the member states and also to ensure the effectiveness of the same measures. this is particularly relevant for control measures introduced in iccat whose interpretation could be different amongst different member states and which are directly linked to the respect of quotas and other international obligations. the commission’s proposal for a regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna provides a very balanced and effective follow-up to the iccat agreement. the report of mr mato, i will repeat, is a very valuable contribution and i look forward to hearing the views of this chamber.
the s&d group has been represented. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to speak today only of the transposition of the icat recommendations, on which we agree and on which, by the way, we have had a long discussion with mr mato, who is the rapporteur, among the groups in the committee. i think we have an opportunity to address important issues relating to tuna, both in terms of the ecology of the species, in terms of the recovery of stocks, and the socioeconomic factors linked to it, in particular, to its fishing. as we know, the european union, together with the member states, is a contracting party to icat and in 2014, precisely in genoa, my city, at the annual meeting of icat, we welcomed the news of the positive data on the good health status of bluefin tuna and, at that meeting, it was decided to increase the quotas allocated to the contracting states by 20%. the quota for bluefin tuna is set by icat, but the distribution criteria are decided by individual member countries at their discretion. unfortunately, in many cases only a few shipowners benefit from these quotas, and small-scale fishermen are largely excluded, despite the 20% increase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our delegation is in favour of these reports, or those on which we have worked together with our colleagues and the rapporteur, mr amato, because it is important to incorporate the indications of icat, which has shown itself to work well in recent years, and because it is important to fit it into european legislation. until the end of the last century, tuna was only caught in a traditional way, then it became an industry and the resource collapsed to 3%. the quota system that has been introduced seems to be working at the moment, as commissioner vella says, and so the direction taken seems to be the right one, although i perhaps share the concerns of those who say that it is premature to increase the quotas. quotas work on the environmental side, but they don't seem to work on the socioeconomic side. there's also a social justice issue: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not deprived of its fishing opportunities. it is a matter which perhaps is not in the proper place to be discussed, but parliament can take this opportunity to make its voice heard on this point too.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two points. the first concerns the question of so-called delegated acts: the commission proposes to implement the future amendments to the bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean by means of delegated acts, but if this were to happen, parliament would no longer have any say in icat. in my view, and in our view, the implementation of the recommendations of the regional fisheries management organisations must remain a joint responsibility of parliament and the council under the ordinary codecision procedure. the second point concerns the quotas for bluefin tuna: it is not clear why the diversification of quotas for each vessel should be based only on the quantity caught in 2000, nor how such a quota can in fact be exclusively to the advantage of certain fishermen to the detriment of many other operators, especially small-scale operators. the mechanism for fishing quotas for bluefin tuna must be freed from the monopoly of large shipowners, favouring more sustainable fishing systems and small and medium-sized enterprises. as an s&d group we have proposed an amendment to call on the member states and icat to review the current system and i ask my colleagues to support it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that thanks to the attention and measures of the european union and icat, the precious species of bluefin tuna is once again populating our seas. the fisheries sector is a valuable one in every sense because it is also commercially sought after and, of course, in the mediterranean sea, it is also, unfortunately, the subject of a monopoly. this is the case, for example, in sicily, where some large shipowners exploit the migratory flow to transport tuna in their nets, which are then marketed in japan. the result is that the tuna that now comes to our table is yellowfin from the pacific, while our fishermen, the sicilian ones, are forced to abandon their boats. small-scale fishing, traditional techniques, old tuna fishing, all the sustainable systems that are disappearing, must be protected. it is a heritage that must be protected, as the precious bluefin tuna.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation of the five star movement will also support the objection because we are facing a deception, because the rde package is being proposed to us as a great step forward, as a very ambitious measure and unique in the world. it is a pity, but how can a package be ambitious and a great step forward if it still allows vehicles to pollute far more than the permitted limits? and one thing we must remember: the companies, the automotive industry, have had seven long years to prepare, adjust and meet the limits in real driving conditions. unfortunately, this has not been done and we cannot afford to go any further. the commission must propose as soon as possible an appropriate and serious measure to protect people's health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate we are having in this house brings us all together in the direction we have been working towards for a long time, which is to improve air quality. and i think there is no doubt about it, that over the decades the air quality in europe has improved enormously, thank goodness! do we have to keep going down this road because it's not enough? i'm sure you do! but we must combine ecology with economics, as an interesting commentator said in an italian newspaper a few days ago, because ecology, which seems to sell health to citizens, is actually bad for the health of citizens, because if we here followed the reasoning of those who today claim to be the best friend of the environment, the best champion of air quality, we would find ourselves with a huge contradiction. we should vote in favour of this objection and then we would have a delay of a couple of years, the negotiations would be reopened and we would not have the improvement in air quality that, by voting in favour, we would have had immediately, immediately. because we're talking here today about voting for further and significant reductions in particulate matter and nox, nitrogen oxides, two of the most terrible, terrible causes of disease and death. so let's face each other honestly and clearly and vote yes to this, then no to this, then yes to that, and then we hope to do better quickly, and above all we help the industry to find even stronger and winning technologies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to convey to the council through you our regret and protest at your unjustified absence from this important debate. we need more respect from the council for the work of parliament. it is now clear that the average nitrogen oxide emissions measured in the laboratory are three or four times lower than those measured on the road. we cannot, in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, turn a blind eye to air pollution. for years, he's lied to the public: then the incredible volkswagen scandal. so let us finally have the road tests we have been asking for for years. none of us wants to strangle the car industry, but we need to get serious. in 2007, the european union had a limit of 80 milligrams per kilometer; how can we accept that this limit, in 2021, after 15 years, will be raised to 120? no, it's not true that you can't do more. the health of our cities requires more courageous action. we're not going to bury our heads in the sand.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission wholeheartedly welcomes the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting eu fundamental values. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur ms ward on the excellent result of her work. the terrible terrorist attacks in france and elsewhere in europe remind us yet again of the importance of building cohesive societies, where everyone can feel safe and valued irrespective of one’s conviction or background. the richness of the social, linguistic and cultural diversity that the eu represents is indeed held together, as the report says, by the fundamental values that we share: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. continuous efforts to promote multiculturalism, integration and social cohesion are needed to guarantee a union in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality prevail. the commission welcomes the strong emphasis of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue and education, which helps learners to show an open mind and be active, responsible citizens equipped with a critical mind and committed to our common fundamental values. this is precisely the point of the paris declaration which the education ministers and myself endorsed in march last year. to follow up on this declaration with concrete actions is a key priority for me. preventing violent radicalisation by promoting an inclusive society and democratic values is firmly embedded in the european security agenda, which recognises the key role of education, youth work and intercultural dialogue in this context. we will also follow up on the european council’s call to address the factors underlying radicalisation. such a complex phenomenon cannot be handled in a simplistic manner. quick fixes and spectacular announcements will not do. we need deeper changes in the social fabric of our societies that can only be achieved through longer—term actions, particularly through formal and non—formal learning. the ward report identifies several very relevant areas for action: the need for civic education to start from an early age, the creation of common education platforms, the development of quality training programmes promoting diversity, the provision of counselling services at schools, the need to provide teachers with multilingual and intercultural skills, and the creation of rights-based and gender-sensitive learning environments. important steps have, in the meantime, already been taken. firstly, the education ministers have agreed to anchor the objectives of the paris declaration firmly in the current priorities for european cooperation in the field of education and training. secondly, we will also use the erasmus+ programme to its full, in order to put the paris declaration into action. projects linked to equity, inclusion and non-discrimination will be substantially reinforced. in 2016, eur 400 million will be spent on transnational projects which will enhance, amongst others, the education of disadvantaged learners and promote the integration of newly arrived migrants. in addition, a specific call will soon be released with a budget of eur 13 million to disseminate good practices in the field of inclusion, anti-radicalisation and integration of migrants. the report also rightly emphasises the importance of intercultural dialogue in promoting fundamental values. the commission work programme for 2016 stresses the importance for the eu to take advantage of opportunities to advance its values, as well as european history and culture. in line with this idea, i, together with high representative/vice-president mogherini, am currently working on measures to further cultural diplomacy, in particular to enhance intercultural understanding through direct people-to-people contacts and civil society relationships. again, this is fully in line with the report in front of us, which calls on the eu to include culture and cultural exchanges and to enhance education in eu external relations. generally speaking, promoting intercultural dialogue, cultural awareness and cultural expression are high up on our working agenda with the member states and they will be discussed at the european culture forum, which will take place in brussels on 19 and 20 april. i greatly appreciate the commitment of parliament to stand behind this important agenda of enhancing fundamental values through culture and education. i am looking forward to working with you on these issues. we have no time to lose and we need to join forces to take concrete action now.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. one year after charlie hebdo and the paris declaration of ministers, we call for all policies, not just education policies, to take an intercultural approach that goes beyond assimilation or multiculturalism, not privatising religious affiliations, but allowing them to meet and dialogue in public space, in mutual respect. we need strong signals: in foreign and security policy, with the initiative of cultural diplomacy; the economic and social agenda; expanding access to immigrant culture and education, with the educational corridors we've called for for students in refugee camps; promoting inclusion through active citizenship, volunteering, civil service programmes; supporting creative enterprises and sports. commissioner, yes, we appreciate the ad hoc calls for erasmus and creative europe, but i think that strong communication along these lines is needed at this point, to give a more holistic sense to this policy.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs ward for the approach she has taken in her report. in the current period of confusion in the european union, it has been courageous to point out that the common values that hold our societies together continue to be: the european union is committed to the promotion of freedom, social justice, equity, non-discrimination, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and solidarity. intercultural dialogue, education and cultural diversity are appropriately emphasised to remind the member states and the institutions of the european union that their centrality must be accompanied by credible measures of social cohesion. i agree that the action of the eu institutions and the member states must be geared to ensuring equality not only in form but also in substance in order to combat all forms of discrimination and marginalization. i hope and hope that the institutions will take advantage of these indications.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would just like to remind mrs bilde that article 167 of the treaty actually says that the european union, on the basis of the unesco convention on cultural diversity and the unesco commission on the common cultural heritage, has the right and the duty to intervene, naturally respecting the subsidiarity of the member states, in the cultural field and promoting and enhancing both cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and also, naturally, both tangible and intangible heritage. and so in the educational part too there is an open method of coordination between the educational policies and recommendations of europe on educational lines.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this report is being produced at a very special historical moment, which precisely defines the need for an intercultural dialogue which puts the values of the european union at the centre, particularly towards all those who see in this cultural dimension of ours a moment of arrival and hope. the values we represent must be accompanied by a moment that sees civil society as the protagonist through dedicated financial instruments and programs that allow this extraordinary network that each country makes available, to bring together cultural diversity and religious diversity, just at a time when religious fundamentalism becomes the fundamental element through which terrorism is accompanied and creates the conditions for the young generations to be able to drink. this report is a very effective counter to this dreamlike dimension which is being proposed to young people on the other side of the mediterranean and therefore deserves our full support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs julie word for her report, which stresses that intercultural dialogue is one of the cornerstones of the very idea of europe. and at a time like this, i think it is more necessary than ever to reiterate this concept through concrete interventions in the daily life of our society. education, training and culture are the keys to these interventions. to this end, europe must rely on the school, emphasizing once again and forcefully its fundamental role as a place for the dissemination and exchange of cultures. the lack of social inclusion and the marginalisation of the peripheries of our cities, as we now know, prevent a real intercultural dialogue, with the risk of encouraging the infiltration of radicalisation. the european union must therefore act, especially on young people, all young people, who must be welcomed and educated in the values of tolerance and respect for different cultures, values which are specific to the european union, so that such tragedies do not happen again.
in writing. the ancient latins said that to err is human, but to persevere (in error) is diabolical: i think that this quote would be enough to sum up what the capital markets union is, a dangerous continuation and worsening of the perverse characteristics and ideals that have brought us into the crisis in which we have been stuck for many years. handing the keys of the economy to finance is the worst thing you can imagine, and unfortunately that is exactly what the european union wants to do through this project (of a capital markets union): the european union has a clear responsibility in all this, and it is a malicious responsibility, because it is being done with the conscious intention of further destroying the already battered european economic fabric. our businesses do not need sophisticated or risky financial instruments, but a credit system that is secure, stable and effective, as it has been since the post-war period until the financial bubble burst. the cmu is only for those who want to speculate, apparently with the support and backing of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the final stage of a task which has occupied me for many months. the issue of female entrepreneurship is of particular relevance in a europe that is struggling to recover from one of the most acute economic and financial crises in its history. i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive spirit which has accompanied the text at all stages. i have adopted a strategy which has involved the other political forces from the very beginning of my report. we were able to work out a cross-sectional position and that didn't see any divisions. we didn't even have to have a shadow meeting. i thank all of you for the desire that we have in common to make women the protagonists of economic recovery. i have investigated, studied and researched the reasons for what are the external factors that represent obstacles to female entrepreneurship which in the european union is still 30%. the process of women's emancipation, which over the centuries has seen women wage hard battles to achieve equal treatment, has not yet achieved its ultimate goal, equality in all spheres. the main obstacles we encounter and which have given rise to the need to draw up this report are social, economic and psychological. women are too often victims of archaic stereotypes, which see them as marginalized in secondary roles and too seldom in leadership. women have to think about the family, the children and the elderly. as if motherhood is considered a hindrance and not the crowning glory of one's life. despite the many directives requiring non-discrimination on grounds of sex in terms of access to services and equal treatment, women are often discriminated against in accessing credit. that is why i believe we need to educate our young women in the spirit of enterprise, in risk-taking and also in the will to be independent and to be entrepreneurs. the text we are voting on tomorrow focuses on five key areas: 1. the first of all, the main issue is the balance between private and professional life, which unfortunately represents one of the main obstacles faced by european women when starting a business. i have therefore proposed that there should be a real rationalisation of the possibilities which european funds make available for providing care for the elderly and babysitting for children. 2. the secondly, in the second chapter, i believe that the exchange of good practice, networking and entrepreneurship education are important components, hence the development of a european platform for women entrepreneurs; the third. the real barrier in chapter 3 for women is access to credit and i believe that greater implementation of the equal access to services directive has become indispensable. banks must treat everyone equally and not favour investment projects over male ones; 4. other the penultimate chapter: i believe that an entrepreneurial culture needs to be instilled in the minds of our young people and then encourage girls and women to consider careers in finance. the fifth. finally, women must be encouraged not only to work in the social sector but, as i said, to be open to new technologies and to the green economy. so, mr president, my time is up. i invite all members to vote tomorrow in favour of this report, for a more inclusive europe, and i conclude with the words of oriana fallaci, an italian writer whom i like very much: 'it is very fascinating to be a woman. it is an adventure that requires courage, a challenge that never tires". i ask all my colleagues to never be bored like i am.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of signatures are being collected in italy following the scandal of the failure of four local banks, at the bottom of a petition to the european parliament. i would like to draw the attention of the president of the european parliament to the need to urge the italian government to compensate the victims of this fraud, which is in fact a fraud, because these bondholders invested all their savings, starting with a tragic figure, that of the saver luigino d'angelo, who even took his own life in the face of this tragic situation. there are thousands of small savers who must be compensated 100%, because they have been defrauded, because they were sold securities that were guaranteed, were sold by bank staff claiming that they were safe securities and hiding the reality that is emerging; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i strongly recommend that the president look into this petition that is coming and that is also made in memory of this victim, the first victim of bail in, mr luigino d'angelo and also a thought to his family.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that we are witnessing another european paradox today with the luxembourg presidency, which even boasts of having achieved great successes in the field of justice and tax transparency. i am referring, for example, to the directive on the automatic exchange of information for tax agreements, the so-called tax rulings. why is it not said that the agreement reached in the council in october is extremely limited and lacking in relation to the proposal of the commission and this parliament? we must also talk about the fiat affair, where the european commission itself has ruled that there is unlawful state aid by luxembourg. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. so you can go on telling all the fairy tales you want, but this is your reality, the reality of a country that for years has prospered on the backs of its european partners, by subtracting billions of legitimate taxes that the multinationals should have paid. i also take advantage of the presence of president juncker to tell him that we are waiting for him with open arms in the taxe committee, since he has yet to clarify his position on the krecké report. do not hide behind the two big groups that support you, come and clarify once and for all in a real contradiction, otherwise you will never be worthy of any credibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the insults of the luxembourg presidency, which i would call a disaster in the most extreme terms: the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. and in my house, doing nothing is complicity. the scandal of the luxembourg government's favouring of multinational companies remains shamefully open. we all know that commission president juncker is involved in this affair, since he was prime minister of luxembourg when the scandal broke. yet in the last six months, nothing has been done to shed light on this shame. what credibility can the european commission have if a suspect is sitting at the summit? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we are tired of the europe of the great powers playing into the hands of the big banks and the multinationals! we are sick of this! i say no to this union which starves honest citizens and fatten the pockets of the usual well-known!
madam president, mr prime minister, mr juncker, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency, unlike some of my colleagues, for the cooperation it has had with this parliament, but above all for the commitment and attention it has shown to issues which are fundamental to the future of the union. first of all, i would like to emphasize the important support for institutional issues. what we have heard this morning tells us how much more europe needs leaders who have courage, foresight, awareness of our common destiny. and you, mr. prime minister, have proved that to us once again this morning. at the same time, i would like to emphasize the work done to deepen the social dimension of the union, for example to include social parameters in the construction of economic and monetary union. this objective has not yet been achieved, but steps have been taken in the right direction and we count on your willingness to continue. finally, i believe that the work done to bring the issue of refugees and migrants into common ground is essential and the july agreements were a fundamental step forward in having a common policy in this field which the next presidency will, however, have to implement. we must now move towards a single common security and defence policy, and i believe that what we need is more europe, not less europe, as some colleagues keep on saying.
the agenda includes the report by kaja kallas and evelyne gebhardt, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on 'towards a digital single market act' (2015/2147 ((ini)) (a8-0371/2015). we'll wait for this picture to come out and then we'll shoot. we must welcome president juncker.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the econ committee we have tried to concentrate on a few points in this very broad subject, also taking into account the extraordinary economic importance of this sector which can be worth over eur 400 billion a year and has the capacity to create, it has been estimated, some 3,800,000 new jobs in europe. we have focused on some fundamental issues such as ensuring equal access conditions; ensuring that governance systems across europe and services to citizens are digital first, in line with a policy we have called digital first; ensuring tax harmonization, which is certainly a priority if we really want a normal development of business localisation and the growth of e-commerce; the aim of the project is to develop a european network of digital skills and to develop a european network of digital skills and to develop a european network of digital skills and to develop a european network of digital skills and to ensure that the development of digital skills, which are so important both in the use and production of digital services, is overcome. we have focused on supporting innovation, the innovators who then have the responsibility to create new businesses in europe or to grow them, some possibly to important levels, capable of being a beacon, even visible in the global market. we have drawn attention to the danger of new monopolies which are so easy and which thrive so easily, partly because of the very specific characteristics of networked and digital services. i'm out of my minute.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, the european parliament’s own-initiative report on the digital single market is a significant document which covers a wide variety of important themes for europe. we need to ensure european people, consumers, companies and industry can benefit from a truly functioning digital single market. this is a top priority of this commission. it is also an area where europe and the european project have many positive stories to tell. that is why working closely and early enough with the co-legislators is key for success. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all other members of the european parliament involved in this report. the digital single market strategy identifies 16 key initiatives. in december 2015, we already presented a communication on copyright with a legislative proposal on cross-border portability. this means that we want to ensure that subscribers to online content services can access what they have paid for while temporarily present in another member state. the copyright communication sets out political objectives and areas of action, with concrete measures and a timeline. we have also made legislative proposals for new rules to improve protection for consumers who buy digital content or goods online across the european union and to help businesses to expand their online sales. as you can see, we are already delivering important elements of the digital single market. this will continue through 2016. in addition to a common and comprehensive solution to geo-blocking, we want to simplify vat payments for companies and also promote efficient and affordable parcel delivery. geo-blocking goes against the very idea of a single market, without borders or discrimination based on nationality or place of residence. beyond consumers, start-ups and smes, we also want to support european industry in embracing digital transformation. this is key for growth and jobs. industry is a pillar of the european economy. it is also important to focus on the skills of the workforce. in the next month, we will review the rules which apply to telecoms, audiovisual and e-privacy. we will improve cybersecurity, leverage cloud computing activities, support the development of a european science cloud and enable free flow of data. i am looking forward to hearing your views during the debate and to working with you to make the digital single market a reality, and a success story for europe.
we are at a stage where the political groups are expressing their views, so to ask questions, to apply the logic of the blue card, at this stage is really anachronistic, we are waiting for the debate and of course there will be the blue card procedure.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is the first in a series of legislative proposals which will be submitted later this year. my personal opinion is that we could certainly have been a little bit more ambitious: we believe that the digital single market must be built around the citizen. and if the european parliament, which is the only institution directly elected by the citizens, does not do this, we cannot expect the european commission and the council to do so. pending the proposal for a telecommunications review, which will be an essential element of this strategy, it is crucial now to be ambitious and do a good job, starting with the commission's proposal on the sale of goods online. the full potential of online sales is not yet fully exploited in the european union, with only 14% of european smes using the internet as a sales channel. we need to work to ensure that citizens and businesses can buy and sell online with greater ease and confidence across europe. this is a new frontier for our companies and a key step in creating new jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done on this balanced report, which is to a large extent acceptable. i believe it is crucial that in our work we have identified three pillars to make possible what we can define as "digital citizenship". the first pillar is equality, i.e. the possibility of giving the same rights to all users, whether they are online or offline, and, in particular, we must absolutely and for this reason eliminate all forms of discrimination, especially geographical discrimination. the second pillar is participation, because we must ensure that citizens, administrations and businesses are able to move around and exchange information and make this market real. and then there's the concept of trust. we have put in the report various tools for the citizen, the user, to move in this area, but we also want to emphasize that these tools must be perceived as existing.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. yes, thank you, mr. president. i would like to ask my colleague: when you talk about major sanctions, what sanctions do you think can be adopted for those who make criminal use of the internet?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regard this dossier as a missed opportunity. we have limited ourselves to the minimum trade union, without exploiting the potential it offered. in this respect, i believe that the debate on the digital single market cannot fail to focus on the european citizen. what does that mean for me? it means that the focal point of the debate must be the dignity of the human person and the whole range of fundamental rights enshrined at european level in the charter of the union. i think of the right to privacy, freedom of expression and information, non-discrimination, just to give a few examples. i also believe that the effective completion of the digital single market will open up new prospects for the democratic life of the european union. i see, however, that too often the digital single market is seen only as an opportunity for economic growth, which i think is highly questionable even theoretically, and too little as democratic and social growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after much parliamentary work we are now adopting this important report, which is a good result, a first step. of course, we can never be satisfied with ourselves, we must always improve. it is certainly a highly democratic result, since it is also the result of extensive negotiation and above all of a fair balancing of all the many interests at stake and the various points of view. as rapporteur for the strategy for the single market in goods and services, i also strongly support president juncker's proposals for the political priority of the digital single market to be one of the focuses of this commission as well, and i think that the path we have started is the right one, but we still have to pursue it more vigorously. these are crucial areas: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the following: i do not want to go on too long, but there are still some items on the agenda. i think that everyday life is linked to digital technology and that it will no longer be possible to do without it, from professionals to entrepreneurs, associations and public bodies, and we must keep up with the times, we must not be excluded from a competition that can be transversal with other states. i am talking about the united states, which is very, very far ahead in this respect. so i congratulate you on your work and we move on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the development of the digital market, with all the important commitments contained in the road map, requires the development and real implementation of a single, integrated and functioning market in telecommunications networks. that is why, pending the new telecommunications framework, i ask the commission - i do not miss an opportunity to ask officially - to honour the commitments contained in our approval of the telecommunications regulation, first of all the review of the wholesale market. if we do not do the wholesale tariff thing, i wonder, we cannot meet the commitments on roaming and i wonder how we can talk about the fall of geoblocking, of a whole series of things, the portability of internet services, if we have not solved that problem which is a prerequisite, it is one of the prerequisites. so, commissioner, i appeal to you in particular. and i just want to, in the few seconds that i have left, to recall the importance, the implications of this digital single market for industry and manufacturing. we have a range of services that integrate between industry and digital that is a forerunner of serious ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the important digital strategy adopted by the commission thanks to this report, and in particular by mrs gebhardt and mr kallas, is being strengthened in favour not only of consumers but of citizens, not only by improving the circulation of services and products but also by focusing on training and the production and use of cultural, creative and audiovisual content as a source of growth and competitiveness. the revision of the copyright directives, the avms directive, will be decisive in this respect, in order to clarify some important aspects. the definition of unjustified geo-blocking, compatibility between portability and territorial licensing for the financing of cinematographic works, a balanced review of copyright and exceptions, the overcoming of the distinction between linear and non-linear services in the avms directive, the clear difference between platforms and the provision that providers of online media and audiovisual platforms and user interfaces are brought under the avms directive if it is an audiovisual media service to preserve european cultural diversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital revolution has already changed our lives and, like all the great changes, it presents us with risks and opportunities. it is up to us to meet this challenge and to try to exploit the opportunities it offers for the growth of the economic system and the lives of citizens and consumers. digital technology has already brought about small and large innovations in our daily lives and in our productive and social fabric, but europe is hardly ever associated with this great process of transformation. when we talk about digital, it's natural to think of silicon valley and not some place on our continent. we are convinced that, with strong investment and coordinated policies, the european union can re-launch itself, give new expression to its traditional excellence, and confirm itself at the forefront as a place of freedom, culture, beauty and quality production. i hope that today's resolution will be a first step towards europe making up for lost time on the road to modernity and leading this revolution with courage and vision.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
we are all convinced that this parliament has and will have an important role to play precisely because it represents 500 million european citizens.
thank you, mr president, we will have the french translation into german checked and corrected if there are any mistakes. (the sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.)
i should like to inform you that i have received numerous requests for explanations of vote. we can only continue the sitting until 2.45 p.m. at the latest, so that the services can prepare to resume the sitting at 3.00 p.m. all the remaining explanations of vote will be examined tomorrow after the votes. other explanations of vote may be submitted in writing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for waiver of mr sikierski's immunity because i consider that the offence committed by mr sikierski does not fall within the scope of the cases covered by the european parliament's rules on parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - i vote yes, it's two traffic violations. there are no extremes to guarantee the protection of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the request for leave to proceed from the prosecutor general of the republic of poland against mr czesław adam siekierski concerns a proceeding concerning speeding offences. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of this because such infringements are outside the scope of the guarantee of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate for authorisation to open judicial proceedings against a member of the european parliament, mr czesław adam siekierski, in relation to an infringement of the road traffic code.
in writing. ‒ considering that the european parliament's committee on legal affairs has followed the procedures for verifying the conditions for the immunity claim by mr siekierski correctly and that this verification has shown that the immunity has no legal basis to be invoked in this specific case, i agree with the assessment of the committee on legal affairs and i am in favour of the waiver of the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of the immunity of czeslaw adam siekierski because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in these cases a guarantor's line must be followed, and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request from the polish general inspectorate for road traffic seeking authorisation to open judicial proceedings against mr czesław adam siekierski in relation to a traffic offence. i voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ given the action taken by mr czesław adam siekierski, mep elected for poland, i am voting in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr czesław adam siekierski, because i believe it is appropriate to allow the polish prosecutor general to carry out the appropriate investigations. czesław adam siekierski is accused of speeding in his home country. the charge relates to january 10, 2015. however, i would like to stress that my vote in favour of this recall does not imply a judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for waiver of mr sikierski's immunity because i consider that the offence committed by mr sikierski does not fall within the scope of the cases covered by the european parliament's rules on parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - i vote yes, it's two traffic violations. there are no extremes to guarantee the protection of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i believe that immunity should not be regarded as a personal privilege but as a guarantee that each member of this parliament can carry out his or her duties in freedom and independence. the matters for which the polish prosecutor general is asking to be allowed to proceed have nothing to do with the performance of mr czeslaw afam siekierski's parliamentary mandate and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. - i chose to vote in favor of the measure. on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate for authorisation to open judicial proceedings against a member of the european parliament, mr czesław adam siekierski, in relation to an infringement of the road traffic code.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european parliament's committee on legal affairs has followed the procedures for verifying the grounds for invoking mr siekierski's immunity correctly and i therefore felt that i should vote in favour;
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of the immunity of mr czeslaw adam siekierski because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in these cases a guarantor's line must be followed, and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request from the polish general inspectorate for road traffic seeking authorisation to open judicial proceedings against mr czesław adam siekierski in relation to a traffic offense. i voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ given the action taken by mr czesław adam siekierski, mep elected for poland, i am voting in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament the request of the chief of the municipal police to grant the authorisation to open judicial proceedings against mr czesław adam siekierski. the reason for such a request would be a high excess of speed when driving a car. in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski. i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity so that the polish authorities can proceed with the verification of whether or not there has been a traffic offence.
in writing. ‒ the international commission for the conservation of tunas (iccat) is the international organisation responsible for the conservation of this species in the atlantic area. in 2006, iccat adopted a 15-year recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, which is periodically revised on the basis of stock assessments, control experience and new technologies. in order to make the measures taken for the recovery of bluefin tuna more effective, the commission proposed that the iccat recommendations be incorporated into community law. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this is a mainly technical measure aimed at transposing into community law the measures of the recovery plan developed by iccat between 2012 and 2014. bluefin tuna is an important fishery resource for several eu countries, including italy, and this project, alongside important measures, has a reference to the issue of quotas. the current mechanism, operated at state level, has favoured and continues to favour large shipowners over small-scale operators. europe can and must work to overcome the current situation which, in addition to penalizing small fishermen, risks undermining the sustainability of fisheries. the socialist group has therefore tabled and passed an important amendment, which i support, calling on the member states to adopt fairer criteria for allocating quotas in order to favour small-scale fishermen.
in writing. ‒ while i share the objectives of rebuilding the bluefin tuna stocks, there are still technical steps that i do not share and which leave me sceptical about a positive vote on this report, which is why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i vote for it. the measure frees the current mechanism from the monopoly of large shipowners and promotes more sustainable fishing systems such as those for small-scale fisheries.
in writing. ‒ today the european parliament approved by a very large majority the amendment i tabled on the redistribution of tuna quotas. this measure is very much appreciated by small-scale artisanal fishermen because it calls on the member states to review quotas on the basis of fairer criteria, without favouring the monopoly of a few shipowners, as is the case today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught unintentionally. in 2015, there was an increase of 20% in the overall bluefin tuna fishing quota, an increase due to the progressive replenishment of the stock, as certified by iccat. this increase in the overall quota for bluefin tuna decided by iccat was unfortunately applied according to discretionary distribution criteria by the individual member countries. a 'failure' which has in many cases meant that only a few shipowners benefit from these quotas, to the detriment of small-scale artisanal fishermen. the large shipowners are running out of quotas in a short time and are taking the tuna to the fattening areas, guaranteeing themselves very high profits. the approval of our amendment means that we want bluefin tuna to be on our tables too and not just on those of asia.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, the bluefin tuna biomass has shown a markedly positive trend. in 2014, the regional organisation decided to increase the tac by 20% for the following three years (2015 to 2017), as sound scientific data show that stocks are at optimal levels of abundance. the rapporteur welcomes the commission proposal, which aims to transpose the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) into community law. the iccat has the power to take decisions for the conservation and management of fisheries in its area of competence. those acts are binding and must be transposed into union law. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to sharing its content, i was pleased to see that sometimes the policies that this european union imposes work. i hope that the evolution of the bluefin tuna stock is a good anticipation of what will happen to the real economy: after years of deprivation and cuts, i hope to soon enjoy the fruits of renewed growth. we really need it.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for atlantic bluefin tuna as the new measures for increasing maximum fishing levels are sufficiently supported by scientific data on the current optimum level of abundance. for italy in particular, this will mean a 20% increase in the maximum allowable catch limits for the year 2016, significantly increasing the amount of fish caught without compromising the balance of our marine environment. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the recovery of the aid granted to the beneficiary.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the iccat has the power to adopt decisions ('recommendations') for the conservation and management of fisheries in its area of competence; such acts are binding and must be transposed into union law. bluefin tuna is the most important species. fishermen have made considerable efforts to adjust their catches to a reduced total allowable catch (tac) as a result of the decisions taken in 2006 while respecting the fishing conditions set out in the plan. in the light of the positive evolution of the stock situation, iccat decided to increase the total allocation slightly. the current tac for 2015 is 15 821 tonnes and the eu quota is 9 372,9 tonnes. since 2008, the bluefin tuna biomass has shown a markedly positive trend. in 2014, the regional organisation decided to increase the tac by 20% for the following three years (2015 to 2017), as scientific evidence shows that stocks are at optimal levels of abundance, therefore i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this is a sensitive issue, especially for our country, because the bluefin tuna issue opens up the debate on the criteria for allocating quotas among fishermen. the tuna quotas are decided by iccat but the internal distribution is managed by individual member countries on a discretionary basis. in our case, the criteria which have forced many small-scale fishermen to abandon their gear because they were not able to access the quotas, despite the increase decreed by iccat, must be revised. that is why i supported the amendment which challenges the current monopoly mechanism of large shipowners, which is intended to promote more sustainable fishing systems, such as those used by small-scale fisheries. the member states must do more to review the quota system, which is detrimental to small-scale fishermen and their future.
in writing. the commission proposal is intended to implement the recommendations of iccat (the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas). the bluefin tuna in particular is certainly the most important species and the fishery is regulated by iccat, which, having established a total allowable catch, has forced fishermen to make considerable logistical efforts to bring the tonnage of catches within the permitted limits. however, a positive evolution of the available stock, supported by scientific data, has allowed an increase in the total allowable catch for the eu, which has increased from 7939 tonnes in 2014 to 9372 tonnes in 2015. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to transpose into eu law all the measures of the east atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna recovery plan adopted by iccat. the project lays the foundations for a greater sensitivity to artisanal fishing and for the implementation of the technical nature of the gear used. however, i think that some crucial points deserve more detailed clarification, such as the measures proposed by the regulation concerning specimens of bluefin tuna caught accidentally and confiscated by the authorities of the member states. in most cases, the focus is on punishing the fisherman who has inadvertently caught the tuna, and not on the possible use of the confiscated fish, for example. such clarifications, even after the introduction of the landing obligation, would ensure better application of the new provisions.
in writing. ‒ with this report we have clearly expressed the european parliament's support for artisanal fishing and more artisanal and sustainable types of gear, such as traditional tuna traps, and we have clearly stated our intention to give european consumers quality european bluefin tuna, avoiding that the best products end up on foreign markets. we shall be watching the council and the member states to ensure that our words do not remain words but are soon transformed into action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean because i consider it a very important act in defence of sustainable fisheries, the interests of territories such as the south of italy and of economic operators who are often sacrificed to the needs of big business. i am thinking of the small fishermen who have often felt suffocated by an excess of quota rules and regulations which have so far favoured the big industry at the expense of small local boats. the s&d group has been fighting for new quota systems for bluefin tuna that eliminate the monopoly of large shipowners, promote sustainable fishing, and promote small-scale fishing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the fishing industry, which is the main source of income for the fishermen. this is an important step, born of listening directly to the territories and operators. it is now up to the member states to review their course and find a high point of synthesis between economy, employment protection and respect for the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, but above all i voted in favour of my group's amendment against the monopoly of the big shipowners to protect small-scale fishing and traditional techniques, the old tuna nets: all sustainable systems that disappear. it is a heritage that must be protected as much as the precious bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. bluefin tuna is the most important species regulated by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icccat), to which the european union is a contracting party and whose decisions on fisheries conservation and management are binding under union law. the proposal aims to consolidate into a regulation a number of measures adopted between 2012 and 2014, such as technical measures on the transfer of live bluefin tuna or provisions on the declaration of catches, in order to ensure uniform application throughout the european union and to guarantee a level playing field for all operators in the tuna fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ to ensure that our bluefin tuna stocks can be repopulated, it is very important to maintain limits on the quotas of vessels. i voted for this report because i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for greater supervision of fisheries activities in order to safeguard an important part of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal takes over the recommendations of iccat, the regional fisheries management organisation responsible for the management of bluefin tuna and related species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas, which has adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, due for completion in 2022. i agree with the rapporteur and support his position that the purpose of the transposition of the iccat recommendations is to ensure uniform application throughout the eu and not to reopen the debate on what has been decided after lengthy negotiations. uniform application should ensure a level playing field for all operators in the tuna fisheries.
in writing. ‒ while the common fisheries policy was originally part of the common agricultural policy, it has gradually acquired a distinct identity in the course of the community's evolution. for this reason, referring to the question put by the rapporteur on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna and considering that it has shown a markedly positive trend in recent years, i consider it appropriate that the european union should propose to incorporate them into the european system by means of a specific regulation. the european fisheries sector also produces about 3.3% of the world's fisheries, a figure which should not be underestimated for the economies of our countries. the union will certainly continue to work towards this, and i am voting in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, adopted in 2006 by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), to which the european union is a contracting party, is bearing fruit. since 2008, bluefin tuna stocks have been growing again and experts believe that since 2014 they have been at optimal levels of abundance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european union fisheries fund (eff) for the period 2014-2020. i welcome the report's proposal to include in a regulation all the measures of the restructuring plan adopted in order to ensure their uniform and effective implementation throughout the eu. i think it is equally important to ensure a level playing field for all those involved in the tuna fisheries. finally, i welcome the adoption of the amendment calling on the member states to allocate tuna quotas more equitably, not only to the benefit of large shipowners but also to small fishermen who use sustainable fishing techniques.
in writing. ‒ in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which is expected to be completed by 2022. the commission has also assessed the impact of the measures on the fishing industry in the union. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the tacs for 2017 have been increased by the tacs for 2017 and 2017 respectively. in addition, the iccat recommendations take into account the specificities of the different tuna fishing gear, in particular traditional, more artisanal and sustainable gear. such gears have a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch. i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to include in a regulation all the measures of the restructuring plan adopted between 2012 and 2014 in order to ensure their uniform and effective implementation throughout the eu. this will ensure that the transposition of iccat recommendations is applied uniformly throughout the eu and that there is a level playing field for all tuna fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the new bluefin tuna recovery plan aims to transpose into european law some of the recommendations adopted by iccat for better management of this precious fishery resource in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i supported parliament's first reading position that there is a need to pay greater attention to small-scale fishing and to the types of gear that are more sustainable and contribute to the achievement of the plan's objectives, because of their high level of selectivity and their low environmental impact. while i agree with the general approach of the proposal, i would have thought it appropriate to clarify the monitoring measures provided for in the regulation in respect of specimens of bluefin tuna caught accidentally and confiscated by the member states' authorities. unfortunately, this measure is often interpreted as a penalty for the fisherman who has caught tuna, even if it was unintentional. i hope that on this point we will go in a different direction, for example by establishing the possible uses of confiscated fish. i believe that, following the entry into force of the landing obligation, such clarification would ensure better implementation of the new provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, with a view to ensuring a more sustainable development of the stock and introducing measures to support small-scale fishing. the purpose of this regulation is to implement in the union the binding conservation and management measures agreed at international level by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and contained in the recommendations adopted at the annual meetings in 2012-2014. although the regulation covers purely technical aspects, the issue of bluefin tuna fishing is particularly important for italy from the point of view of the criteria for allocating quotas among fishermen. these quotas are decided within iccat but distributed nationally by the individual member states. that is why i voted in favour of an amendment calling on the member states to review the system for allocating fishing quotas for bluefin tuna in order to favour small-scale fishermen, who can ensure a more sustainable system than large shipowners.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the resolution contains technical measures such as those on the transfer and caging of live fish, and includes measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate tuna quantities and catch reporting requirements. i am particularly pleased that the report has been approved, particularly with regard to the new distribution quotas. the system in force until now has particularly penalized small-scale fishermen and has undermined the sustainability of fisheries.
in writing. ‒ among the eu's objectives, ensuring fair competition and a level playing field for all businesses plays a key role in the management and smooth functioning of the internal market. the parliament's annual report sets out the most significant initiatives and decisions taken by the commission in the application of competition law, with a view to making the necessary improvements for consumers and businesses. the text presented correctly addresses some important issues, such as the need to prevent excessive market concentration or to punish cases of abuse of a dominant position. although i think the report put forward is well focused on the right priorities, i have decided to abstain and to call for further and more decisive action by the eu in this area.
in writing. ‒ competition is one of the most important aspects of the union's economic policy, closely linked to the european concept of a social market economy. the fight against monopolies and excessive concentrations of economic and financial power is undoubtedly a crucial element in the maintenance of an efficient democratic system capable of safeguarding the rights and prerogatives of all citizens. i have supported the langen report with great enthusiasm, in the belief that progress towards improving competition policy means fighting against social dumping in the labour market and against tax evasion and fraud. i strongly support the position that parliament should be given powers of co-decision in competition matters, going beyond the provisions of the present treaties. only by strengthening democratic spaces will it be possible to successfully pursue the objectives of the coming years: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with what mr langen said in his report on the analysis of eu competition policy. i cannot support a text which in its fundamental passages praises the work of the commission and portrays it as almost infallible. as regards the state aid chapter, i believe that europe must change its direction completely. the policies which have been implemented so far in this area have prevented the member states and our territories from confronting multinational companies from third countries and from supporting european production and industry. the eu must change course and it must do so quickly by abandoning the failed policies it has been pursuing up to now; i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ensuring fair competition, and therefore the existence of fair competition at the basis of the european single market, including the increasingly important digital market, is one of the necessary preconditions for achieving the general objectives of the economic policy of the european union. the resolution voted today is intended to give new impetus to competition policy in europe, but also to extend the safeguards for compliance with it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities against counterfeiting is based on the principle of proportionality. it is necessary to oppose the creation of cartels and to prevent the formation of dominant positions on the market, in particular the digital market, which requires a rethinking and deepening of the current legislation in this area. states must also refrain from implementing tax policies that are potentially harmful to competitiveness and must ensure fair competition opportunities. only if the rules are effectively applied can fair and non-discriminatory market access be guaranteed, which can benefit above all small and medium-sized enterprises and, ultimately, all european consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the annual report on the european union's competition policy because i believe that the single market and eu competition policy represent the flagship of the union. i particularly agree with the call to the commission to put an end to social dumping, which is a real and pressing problem that must be solved as soon as possible.
in writing. - i vote against it. the text signed by mr langen does not depart in the least from the preceding texts on state aid. yet, according to many, state aid is one of the policies which has prevented member states most of all from confronting multinational companies from third countries or from supporting european production and industry. the persistence of classical liberal views, which are not suited to our times and the present crisis, is certainly contributing to a situation of growth that is far below that of any other economic area in the world.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report on the european union's competition policy. the competition policy of the european union is one of the fundamental pillars of the social market economy in europe and is an essential tool for the functioning of the union's internal market. the report stressed the importance of innovation, the creation of favourable conditions for smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises, sustainability and the promotion of high environmental standards for an effective and credible european competition policy. in this report, parliament has expressed to the european commission the need to continue to work to put an end to social dumping, with particular attention to remote or isolated regions. in view of all these factors, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report is concerned with the development of competition policy in the european union. the report makes some interesting points, including the reference to the introduction of a common corporate tax base, the call for strengthening policies to encourage infringement complaints and the call to go beyond the proposals made in the oecd draft to avoid any form of harmful tax competition in the internal market. the call on the commission to examine carefully the dominant position of google and other internet platforms is also fully acceptable. the report also contains some criticisms. in addition to over-emphasizing the work done by the commission so far, the report does not sufficiently call on the commission to strengthen its powers of sanction and investigation. the issue of transparency is also not fully addressed and there is no proposal for a revision of the state aid rules, both of which i consider to be fundamental. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - i supported the measure. the report commends the work of commissioner vestager on cooperation with the european parliament and calls for greater involvement of the parliament in competition policy. the report highlights how competition decisions must take into account the social impact in the peripheral and more isolated areas of the european territory. the commission is also called upon to increase transparency in infringement proceedings against private companies.
in writing. ‒ the text rejected by the econ commission does not seem perfect to me, and indeed it needed to be rewritten a bit with amendments and the voting list, but basically i voted in favour of this report because i saw firsthand how commissioner vestager is very attentive to the political dimension of her decisions and if on the one hand she does not go beyond the area defined by the rules, on the other she has that reasonableness that you do not expect from a commissioner, especially if she comes from a northern european country. good commissioner, and congratulations on the way you are running this key area of european policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by parliament. the european union's competition policy remains of paramount importance, especially at a time when it must be strengthened to achieve greater growth and employment. in particular, i would like to stress the need to involve the european parliament more closely in competition matters, and the need for the commission to take account of the social impact of its decisions, especially in remote and isolated regions, by including penalties for the legal persons and the natural persons responsible, in order to make the sanctioning function more effective. in addition, it is important to assess member states' unfair tax practices more severely.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses competition issues in the eu. the text contains many broadly shared ideas on how to prevent excessive market concentration, abuse of dominant positions and cartels. the reference to the google case and other internet platforms is particularly important. the commission has also made a number of references to the competition policies needed in the financial markets, but there are no controversial points to be made here. the parts on the whistleblower policy, the ccctb, beps and the work of the taxe committee and the reference to the luxleaks case and the need to start country by country reporting as soon as possible are also interesting and worth supporting. it is a good text, not unbalanced, reflecting priorities which are also ours. however, progress could be made in terms of transparency through greater reporting to the european parliament. the report could have been more ambitious in terms of amending the state aid law, which i think should be revised. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ eu competition policy is one of the fundamental pillars of the social market economy in europe and, through the strict application of the principles of law, contributes to the functioning of the union's internal market, benefits consumers, workers and entrepreneurs, and promotes innovation and growth. i voted in favour of this resolution also because it deals with the issue of inequalities between european regions. in particular, the resolution stresses that competition policy must take account of the objectives of sustainable development and social cohesion, must support enterprises located in regions with temporary or permanent disadvantages and must grant greater flexibility to regions with serious economic problems, such as regions covered by the convergence and competitiveness objectives, and to island regions.
in writing. ‒ competition is undoubtedly one of the key principles around which the commission's economic policy has been built. however, the european debate has repeatedly called into question the strict and overly stringent application of these policies. the limits of this economic policy need to be better understood, especially at a time of great change for european industry. the production of steel and other commodities has often been the focus of european policy, but decisions taken in brussels have been met with considerable opposition from national governments, local authorities and, above all, producers. is it possible to rethink policies that combine incentives for innovation, restrictions on unfair practices resulting from market dominance and at the same time guarantee a social economy? in particular, these policies, rather than uniting europe, seem to create friction between the various local economic realities. moreover, credit crunch and unemployment seem to make some of these policies, such as quotas, no longer adequate to the global challenges ahead. i therefore believe that these policies should be the result of a more in-depth dialogue with local realities and the social groups concerned in order to make them more efficient and more integrated into the heterogeneous european economic fabric.
in writing. i am pleased to have supported the report of the economic affairs committee, which is part of the structured dialogue with the european commission on competition policy. i find that the s&d group's priorities are reiterated in particular in some paragraphs which stress the need to prevent the adverse employment effects of eu competition rules, with particular reference to areas of general economic interest. i can therefore only support the report, which also calls for more comprehensive and coherent action to resolve conflicts of interest in competition policy, starting with more decisive action against tax evasion and illegal tax avoidance by large companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy. this report marks a new beginning, because as was also stressed during the investiture procedure of the new ec, competition policy 'will contribute, where necessary, to the programme for employment and growth, including in innovative areas such as the digital market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against fraud. it is no longer a mere ritual and periodic exercise. the ep is aware of the powers which are attributed to the ec in the field of competition in the internal market, based on an open economy and free competition, and firmly believes that the fundamental objective of competition policy is to avoid distortions of free competition and thus the proper functioning of the internal market. however, it is time to give the ep more powers because it is paradoxical that the ec sets the annual competition policy guidelines and is itself responsible for implementation and has the power to impose sanctions in vital areas such as state aid. i strongly support the ep's request to be better informed on the control and strict surveillance of illegal state aid, tax rulings.
in writing. ‒ competition policy is a key pillar of the single market. fair competition must be ensured if the market is to continue to grow to its full potential. the rapporteur argues that digital networks are a key instrument for consumers and investors to participate in the market on an equal footing. the rapid development of new networks requires appropriate regulation to ensure that the objectives of the single market are also achieved in the digital area. i voted in favour, calling on the european commission to improve the regulation of competition in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu's competition policy aims to encourage fair competition between all firms in the internal market, while maintaining a high level of social protection and welfare and improving the conditions of workers. we therefore welcome the adoption of this report. we are convinced that any agreement or arrangement which is restrictive of competition and which may affect trade between member states or lead to the abuse of a dominant position must be prohibited. effective competition is not an end in itself but a condition for the creation of a free and dynamic internal market. we share the view of president juncker: competition policy will contribute, where necessary, to the agenda for jobs and growth, including in areas such as the digital market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax evasion. unfortunately, we cannot help but note that parliament has so far been involved in competition legislation exclusively through the consultation procedure, with an unfortunately limited influence compared to that of the commission and the council. we therefore call for the introduction of the ordinary legislative procedure provided for in the treaty of lisbon also for competition legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr langen's report, which calls for eu competition policy to play its primary role in the implementation of the market economy and competition in europe. the 2014 competition policy report indicates that the commission and the competition authority represent the european authority with the most power to enforce competition in the internal market. the multi-billion euro fines for unlawful price fixing will need to be effectively supplemented in future by sanctions against the responsible company executives and managers, with a view to preventing this behaviour more effectively.
in writing. ‒ recent events have highlighted how firms seek to restrict competition. in this context, i would like to recall that eu competition rules are designed to ensure fair and just conditions, while leaving room for innovation and promoting uniform standards and development, particularly for small firms. i am voting in favour, with confidence in a fair policy on the part of all the companies.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) lays down, in articles 101 to 109, the binding rules on competition in the internal market. the basic objective of competition rules is to ensure that they do not distort the achievement of a free and dynamic internal market. until now, the european parliament has been involved in the formulation of competition law exclusively through the consultation procedure. the commission's influence is therefore unfortunately limited compared with that of the commission and the council. i voted in favour of this report and i believe that in future more attention will have to be paid to illegal state aid and unfair tax competition between member states, which cause considerable distortions of the internal market of the union. i would like to stress in particular that the text states that fines of several billion euros for illegal price fixing must be effectively supplemented by sanctions against the managers and directors of the companies responsible, in order to prevent this behaviour more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report stresses the collaboration between parliament and the commission, but at the same time proposes points for improving the single market in europe. for example, it is necessary and urgent to respond to the challenges of digitalisation by adapting competition rules to new business models.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy, in which parliament examines what the commission is doing or intends to do to promote healthy and free competition between businesses, in compliance with the rules and for the benefit of consumers. the criticisms highlighted in the european parliament's report are many and concern various sectors, among which the digital economy and the financial sector seem to me to be crucial. the commission has traditionally looked at the giants of the digital economy because of the danger their size poses to free competition and because of their not always transparent business practices. parliament agreed with the commission and called on it to speed up the procedures for ascertaining any responsibility. on the subject of competition in the financial sector, i wanted to stress with my colleagues the need to apply uniformly in the member states the european rules on support for banking systems through public resources, which various countries have used in the years of the financial crisis, and the elimination of disparities for those who now intend to use them.
in writing. ‒ eu competition policy is one of the fundamental pillars of the social market economy in europe and is an essential tool for the functioning of the union's internal market. the report by mr langen looks at some interesting aspects which need to be given the utmost attention. first of all, on the question of state aid, the need for sound legislation that promotes growth and development, creates healthy competition between european companies and enables them to play a leading role in international and globalised trade must be stressed. i would also like to point out that in the digital age it is more than ever essential to adopt common rules in order to quickly bridge the gap between countries. finally, it is essential that the commission intensify its efforts in investigating cases of abuse of dominant positions to the detriment of consumers in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament presents its annual report analysing the state of competition policy in the eu. the report is generally acceptable. the text calls for further steps, such as deepening the investigation into the google case, supporting whistleblowers and introducing the ccctb. the text misses the opportunity to go boldly further, calling for greater transparency and greater involvement of the european parliament. the report lacks any ambition to amend the state aid law. it is not enough for the commission to sanction multinational companies, they must pay taxes in the countries where they operate. for these reasons, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on competition policy in the european union. i firmly believe that all companies operating in our market should be treated equally. this, however, must not be reduced simply by lowering prices, but must be accompanied by high standards of social protection and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament presents an own-initiative report analysing competition issues in the eu. the text contains many broadly shared ideas on how to prevent excessive market concentration, abuse of dominant positions and cartels. the reference to the google case and other internet platforms is particularly important. several references are also made to the competition policies needed in the financial markets; the parts on the whistleblower policy, the ccctb, beps and the work of the taxe committee and the reference to the luxleaks case and the need to start country by country reporting as soon as possible are also interesting and worth supporting. however, there is too much complacency in the text about the work done so far by the commission, whereas we should be more courageous in demanding more from dgcomp, for example by means of more powers of inquiry and more powers to impose sanctions. progress could also be made in terms of transparency through greater reporting to the european parliament. the report could also have been more ambitious in terms of the state aid law, which i think needs to be revised. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. this own-initiative report is presented annually by the european parliament with the aim of providing a comprehensive picture of the aspects of competition policy within the 28 member states of the european union. the text contains several points which i welcome, such as the fight against excessive market concentration and the introduction of measures to prevent abuse of dominant positions and cartels. in this context, particular reference is made to the case of google and other internet platforms. however, i decided to abstain during the vote in plenary because the text of the report shows excessive complacency about the work done so far by the european commission, identified in the persons of former commissioner joaquín almunia and the present commissioner vestager. i think they should have done something more ambitious. i would have expected a bolder text, which would have provided for the establishment of greater powers of inquiry and investigation, as well as a more stringent system of sanctions. much progress could also be made in terms of transparency by requiring more detailed reporting to the european parliament. the report should have also dealt more with the state aid rules, which require a thorough reflection to assess their effectiveness and application.
in writing. ‒ the eu promotes the sharing and respect of fundamental values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and solidarity. this is why intercultural dialogue, based on the mutual exchange of views and opinions by different cultures, is perfectly in line with european objectives, stimulating mutual understanding and integration between citizens. the member states should be encouraged to implement programmes which take account of the cultural differences in today's societies and condemn all forms of discrimination or racism. this is a priority for intercultural dialogue. i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to involve institutions, states and local authorities in promoting the sharing of good practice aimed at respecting the dignity of the individual and his rights.
in writing. ‒ europe in the second decade of the 21st century is, without a doubt, a melting pot of heterogeneous identities and traditions. the cultural, religious and linguistic diversity is an intangible wealth which reveals a common feeling on the continent about the values which we believe form the basis of european society. rule of law, social justice, democracy and human rights are both achievements and constant goals to be pursued. a goal that seems to be threatened today by the growth of xenophobic impulses and religious radicalism. i supported the report by julie ward with conviction, aware that the challenge of intercultural dialogue will be fundamental for the coming years. the eu must promote formal, non-formal and informal education, involving as many associations, political actors and religious organisations as possible in a broad citizenship education project to respond effectively to the challenges posed by globalisation and migration. the issue of safe and quality work cannot be excluded, since it represents a real opportunity for integration for all citizens. the challenge for a more open and secure european society lies in the promotion of artistic, sporting and voluntary activities, which overcome the mechanisms of segregation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the model of integration at all costs to promote intercultural dialogue, which in all cases remains an end in itself, unrealistic and propagandistic, is a failed model and one of the causes of the social crisis europe is currently going through, which is why i voted against the ward report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report which, in line with the paris declaration of march 2015 and the challenges we face today, underlines the importance of intercultural dialogue as a key means of achieving an increasingly cohesive and inclusive society. in dealing with the problems of today, such as the refugee crisis, the radicalisation of many young people and the phenomenon of terrorism, we cannot forget that the encounter between different cultures and dialogue in diversity are among the founding principles of the european union, which was also and above all created to promote these values. in order to strengthen the european dialogue area and to meet the challenges of the present, we must focus on young people and their education, at all levels and by all possible means, in the awareness that culture and mutual knowledge are the basis of any truly harmonious and integrated society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union, with its immense cultural, linguistic and religious diversity, must take all the necessary measures to protect and promote intercultural dialogue. it is a vital resource for our future and it is our duty to preserve it.
in writing. ‒ culture is a soft power which the union must put at the heart of its action. the eu is a beacon of civilization in the world, where the highest ideals of human thought are being translated into reality through legislative reforms and the progressive and steady action of the institutions democratically chosen by the people of europe. this level of civic achievement, although still improving and not free from defects and errors, is a positive example. we europeans have a moral duty and a political opportunity to take what we represent in the world and, through the important and ambiguous instrument of intercultural dialogue, to put it into practice both with people coming to the union from other countries and with those who remain in areas of environmental crisis or conflict. by eliminating social, cultural and economic discrimination of people in their communities, fundamentalism and violent extremism are empowered at the root. by integrating cultural dialogue into the union's external policy, we will play a key role in promoting the democratisation, peace-building and respect for human rights that our founding values demand of us.
in writing. ‒ this report by the british socialist mep emphasises the will to continue the educational model that has prevailed in recent decades of welcoming education for a multicultural society. this report calls for the member states to impose the 'welcome' imperative in the field of training in order to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education and learning environments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the report. i am convinced that the constantly developing intercultural dialogue in europe is an essential instrument for the identity and cohesion of the whole community. it is clear that it is reinforcing the common values of freedom, social justice and democracy, which are directly derived from human rights and are being put to the test by xenophobic and radical tendencies within and outside europe's borders, precisely by suppressing cultural dialogue. for this reason, as i had the opportunity to stress in my questions last march, the whole field of intercultural exchange needs continuous stimulation from the commission's political agenda, with the dual aim of spreading the unique role that european culture maintains in the world and, from the economic point of view, of reinforcing its natural resilience to times of recession such as the present. i therefore agree with the report and the recommendations it proposes, in particular those calling for strengthening the capacity to make choices in intercultural dialogue, the promotion of equality and the acceptance of diversity as a resource.
in writing. ‒ the report is overall very positive. the great importance of intercultural dialogue as a tool for inclusive democratic participation and citizens' empowerment is recognised, with a specific call for the management of common goods and public spaces. the text also stresses the importance of building strong links between culture and education for the purpose of social inclusion and active citizenship. again, it is certainly positive to recall the need for civic education to begin in early childhood. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that intercultural dialogue should be considered as a key component of the eu's external action. the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 requires member states to foster intercultural dialogue in education and learning environments. to this end, structural and sustainable support should be given to ngos, institutions dealing with children and young people, training institutions, all relevant organisations and initiatives at local level.
in writing. ‒ the eu has always been characterised by the predominance of soft power over hard power, of dialogue over war, and academics say that europe comes from venus (as opposed to the united states coming from mars). i'm not sure that this approach is always the best, but the fact is that intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education can do much more than repression in creating better citizens. history teaches us that violence only works in the short term, because sooner or later the oppressed organize and liberate themselves. culture, on the other hand, though bearing fruit more slowly, is more durable and spreads more deeply. i have voted in favour of this report with these principles in mind.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to support intercultural dialogue because, in the specificity of this historical moment, we are already experiencing the challenges of living together between different cultures. it is more necessary than ever to reaffirm the principles on which the european union is founded and to make those values known to all those who are in the territory of the union, even if they are not directly native to it. i also agree that priority should be given to education and training, which is accessible to all and of high quality. for these reasons, i am in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report presents a very positive overall profile on the declining role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in relation to the promotion of the fundamental values of the european union. intercultural dialogue, as understood in the report, should build on the work carried out during the european year of intercultural dialogue in 2008. interreligious dialogue, which is considered to be a component of intercultural dialogue and qualified as an essential prerequisite for peace and a fundamental instrument for conflict management, should also be taken into account. preserve respect for the dignity of the individual and human rights, with particular reference to freedom of thought, conscience and religion and the right to protection of religious minorities, thereby contributing significantly to the strengthening of democracy and the development of a stronger and deeper sense of inclusion and belonging. educational resources should be reviewed to promote multi-perspective and multilingual learning, and the multilingual and intercultural experiences and skills of teachers should be systematically enhanced and promoted. the member states and the commission are urged to prevent extremism, xenophobia, racism and all forms of discrimination and marginalization through cohesion measures within the community. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ as europe is characterised by cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity, the common values that hold our societies together, such as freedom, social justice, equality and non-discrimination, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, play a fundamental role. i voted in favour of the resolution because it encourages the european commission and the member states to take appropriate measures to promote intercultural dialogue, such as: develop training programmes that promote diversity, promote the use of new information and communication technologies, encourage the development of artistic, sporting, educational and training activities for all ages, as well as volunteering activities, in order to strengthen the processes of socialisation and participation of minorities, develop strategies that recognise intercultural dialogue as a process of interactive communication between and within cultures with a view to ensuring mutual respect and equal opportunities, make use of european financial instruments, eu neighbourhood and external relations policy instruments, and bodies such as the european union agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ eu education ministers have been clear in jointly affirming the value of a pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant and equitable society, respectful of the eu's core values of human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality. this report is an attempt to follow up this conviction by promoting a healthy intercultural dialogue between all types of communities leading to a better understanding and acceptance of core common values. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that intercultural dialogue makes it possible to deal constructively with stereotypes, prejudices and forms of discrimination, offering new opportunities to marginalised communities and laying the foundations for strong, confident and cohesive peoples of the future.
in writing. the paris declaration on the promotion of citizenship and common values of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination through education, adopted by the european union ministers of education in paris on 17 march 2015, is a powerful statement, which places on member states the imperative of welcoming to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education, which is imperative in order to lay the foundations for building strong, confident, resilient and cohesive communities of the future. the resolution, in the spirit of the paris declaration, reaffirms the value of a pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant and equitable society in which solidarity and equality between women and men are embraced with conviction in the pursuit of the eu's core values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights (as enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union). europe is a vast wealth in terms of cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity; in this context, the common values that hold our societies together, such as freedom, social justice, equality and non-discrimination, human rights, tolerance and solidarity, are fundamental to the future of europe. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the message that the european parliament sends by approving the report by mrs julie ward, which i think it is important to support, is the strong appeal to the natural and primary value on which the cultural identity of the union is built: the guarantee of respect for human rights and dignity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in the field of vocational training. against the great evils that threaten our society today, the most powerful tools we have are inclusion, equity and respect for the person, which we find in our dna as europeans, already enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. i share the view that dialogue, cooperation and education are the key factors in supporting the dissemination and sharing of our values, in order to provide concrete support for the development of a pluralist and democratic society, and i hope that europe will soon be able to boast not only of being the promoter but also the leader of a common sense of strong solidarity and democracy, in which equal opportunities are finally considered an investment and a resource and not a danger to be hindered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the eu's core values. intercultural dialogue aims to create links and common ground between different cultures, communities and populations to promote mutual understanding and interaction and is essential to avoid conflicts and the marginalisation of citizens on the basis of their cultural belonging. freedom, social justice, equity, non-discrimination and tolerance are a great asset and are essential for the future of europe. it is therefore necessary to ensure an open and respectful exchange between people, to encourage an intercultural and interfaith approach to ensure that principles such as integrity, cultural diversity, social inclusion are respected. the european union must act and condemn any inhuman and degrading treatment and violations of human rights and thus the member states, and ensure the full implementation of european and international anti-discrimination rules in their national legal systems.
in writing. europe is at a time when it must strengthen its commitment to intercultural dialogue and diversity. by increasing our openness to tolerance and dialogue, we become more confident and stronger when we face today's problems. understanding our neighbours in europe and in neighbouring countries will enable us, as global peace actors, to focus on human rights issues, especially those of gender and religion. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ europe, the world, is facing many difficult challenges related to globalisation, migration, the growth of a dangerous, violent radicalism that has dramatically bled european cities, particularly paris. in order to combat extremism in all its forms, intercultural dialogue is one of the main tools for improving mutual understanding and promoting common european values: the european union is a great example of a great country. values at the heart of our societies, which derive from the extraordinary wealth of cultural and linguistic diversity that characterises our continent. it is therefore essential to 'structure' intercultural dialogue according to an intercultural approach, rather than a multicultural one, by actively involving the whole of society: the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the use of the internet in education and training. so starting from a truly inclusive culture and at the same time being aware of one's own history. a truly fruitful intercultural dialogue, which creates mutual respect and understanding, requires a profound knowledge of one's own history, one's own cultural roots and traditions, the fundamental values which underlie our common european culture and which, objectively, derive to a large extent from europe's christian roots.
in writing. ‒ the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 imposed on member states the imperative of welcoming to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education and learning environments, at this historic moment when the concepts of identity and belonging are being challenged, reworked and defended. i support mr ward's report because it is an attempt to follow up the common conviction expressed by the eu education ministers that it is necessary to join efforts to prevent and tackle exclusion, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. the report identifies opportunities and challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all levels of government and at eu level, starting with a stronger focus on culture in external action and the eu development agenda.
in writing. ‒ the commitment of the european institutions to safeguarding the role of intercultural dialogue and cultural diversity is fundamental, and i am happy to be able to contribute with my vote in favour. in recent years the european union has been going through a particular moment in history where the concepts of identity and belonging have been challenged and it is in our interest to be able to emerge from this condition.
in writing. ‒ the european union is immensely rich in cultural, social and linguistic diversity. in this context, preserving the common values that unite our societies such as freedom, democracy, human rights, tolerance and solidarity becomes crucial for its advancement. the many challenges facing us today, including immigration, the dangers of radicalisation, rising inequalities and the violence of populist policies, require a common commitment to avoid a closed society in which citizens' sense of belonging and collective capacity to react have been eroded. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that strengthening intercultural dialogue can make a significant contribution to building a pluralist and inclusive society. promoting cultural pluralism is important for the improvement of democracy and for laying the foundations for a new culture of citizenship, which shapes a collective european consciousness. intercultural dialogue can thus be the prime venue for the understanding and development of innovative democratic practices and a vehicle for a new level of unity within the union.
in writing. ‒ in defending the eu's core values, common efforts are needed. preventing and addressing exclusion, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, as well as preserving a framework of equal opportunities for all, is key to solving current challenges. this report aims to promote inclusion, participation and active citizenship through the development of new education policies, such as high-quality training programmes for educators in both the statutory and voluntary sectors. the report particularly highlights the positive role played by volunteering, sport and the arts in strengthening socialisation processes. it is also important to ensure that cultural heritage and history are not used as a tool of division but as an opportunity for inclusion. promoting the eu's core values also requires increased cooperation between international institutions, in particular between the union, its member states and international organisations such as the united nations and its agencies, and increased structural and sustainable support to ngos, organisations working with children and young people, training institutions and all organisations concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education, because i believe that this text is an effective response to the increasingly evident multidimensional and multicultural structure of europe, and because i believe that it is essential, in the light of recent events, to promote intercultural and interreligious exchange in an interactive and inclusive dimension. an inclusive society is one that invests in education that is accessible at all levels, that simplifies the bureaucratic procedures for obtaining citizenship, that offers the possibility of acquiring intercultural and social civic skills. creating such a society means providing future generations with the tools to tackle and overcome bold challenges in an innovative way and to combat in a concrete way the social phenomena of discrimination, violence, racism, xenophobia and radicalism. in this resolution, we therefore call on all levels of government to promote more and more initiatives aimed at supporting cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue, education, making full use of existing financial resources and initiatives at european level.
in writing. ‒ at a time like the present, marked by violent and tragic events in europe, i believe it is more necessary than ever to reiterate the need to foster intercultural dialogue through concrete interventions in the daily lives of all citizens. education, education, training and culture must be considered key words in our daily lives. the aim of all our actions is integration and solidarity, especially with regard to the many children who are forced by war and hunger to leave their country of origin. the common foreign and security policy must be given a boost, also through cultural diplomacy, and strong signs of social and economic integration are needed, which can be achieved by extending access to culture and education for immigrants, with educational corridors for students in refugee camps. promoting inclusion through active citizenship programmes and support for new forms of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe in the role of intercultural and interreligious dialogue and education as fundamental tools for promoting peace, facilitating conflict management and promoting human rights. this is particularly important in the light of the recent events which have shaken europe. we must work with young people in particular to help them become members of an open society that adheres to the eu's values and fights against phenomena such as racism, radicalism and discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report on intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in the fundamental values of the european union. i agree with the report almost entirely: it is important to note that intercultural and interreligious dialogue and education are fundamental elements for the creation of a climate of peace and important tools for conflict management. this is particularly true today in the light of the tragic terrorist attacks that have just occurred. i particularly share the report where it recognises that joint efforts are needed to prevent and combat marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation. i would also like to remind you that we have a duty to work to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken on several occasions about the quality of financial regulation and governance in this sector. with the report we have approved, we are taking a step towards greater transparency in the legislative process on financial services, in order to avoid a relapse into a severe recession like the one in 2008 with subprime mortgages. this risk is less abstract than one might think, if leading economists are now predicting an "epidemic" in the energy sector due to the possible failure of shale oil companies and if the monetary authorities of the main countries do not take proactive steps. i agree with the report and i share the rapporteur's concern about the inconsistencies and lack of uniformity in the legislation, particularly on the objectives which i hope all the regulators involved will embrace, namely financial stability, consumer protection and the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises. as a result, the overall competitiveness of europe's financial sectors, which is also threatened by china, brexit and the ongoing tensions in the euro area, needs to be stimulated by a cultural change in the financial sector that puts consumers' interests first with a coherent and risk-based approach.
in writing. ‒ the capital markets union aims to tackle the investment gap with determination by expanding and diversifying sources of finance for long-term businesses and projects in europe. to this end, the commission has proposed an action plan to be completed by 2019 to facilitate cross-border investment with the ambition of making the european financial system more stable and competitive. the proposed capital markets union does not meet the particular financing needs of smes, which need local banks with a local basis. that is why i voted against the proposed system, which i consider to be unsuitable for protecting smes, and which would instead create an even more complex and costly channel of financing.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis since 2008 has highlighted all the risks associated with a lack of regulation in the financial sector. the real economy has been hit by severe shocks to stock markets, the banking system and the whole financial institutions complex. the eu's efforts in recent years to promote a more shock-resistant and more transparent financial system have, however, been linked to a non-exhaustive assessment by the commission of the outcome of the reforms it has promoted. i supported the balz report because i believe that the path towards a capital markets union that is conducive to the real economy should be promoted as much as possible. the new financial system will have to be based on a renewed culture and ensure that savers and investors have access to relevant, accurate, simple and reliable information. initiatives to improve sme financing should be extended to start-ups, micro and medium-caps in order to promote stable and sustainable growth and the creation of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the balz report which analyses the budget and the challenges of eu regulation of financial services. i believe that the eu's financial services legislation needs to be completely reviewed. a few legislative initiatives are not enough to finally bring stability to the community's financial markets. a radical change is needed, one that restores confidence to businesses and consumers. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the review of financial services regulation gives us the opportunity to take stock of the situation and propose improvements in an area which, as the financial crisis has shown, is having an increasingly wide impact on the real economy. this report, which i support, has the merit of striking a good balance between the desire to facilitate access to finance and the need to review a regulation which has often proved unsuitable to meet the problems and challenges of the present time. the revision of the financial services legislation does not mean that we are moving towards gradual deregulation, but towards better regulation. the creation of a capital markets union also requires clearer and more effective, but also more transparent and coherent legislation, which is capable of creating a more favourable investment environment, including the creation of new channels of access to credit, which can benefit in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. a clear and consistent regulatory framework is needed to ensure financial stability and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the report is a compendium of good intentions, which can be shared in part, but with a 'distinction' such as point 14, which seems inherently contradictory. the problem, however, is that there is complete silence on the only basic prerequisite for good intentions, namely the restoration of a clear separation between those who deal with finance and those who must exercise credit (the glass steagall act). without this there can be neither protection of savings nor adequate credit to the real economy. the report also underestimates the value of non-conflict resolution systems for debt disputes and in fact demonizes shadow banking (point 26), which is designed to compensate for the credit shortfalls even among the wealthy. and above all, it does not provide any practical measures for the analysis of risks in derivative products to protect the widespread interest of investors, and in particular of small european savers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the actions taken by the eu in the field of financial services represent an important step towards the completion of the single market and european integration. in particular, i think it is important that regulation in this area should focus more on the end users of capital markets, namely companies and investors.
in writing. ‒ following the financial and debt (private, but omitted) crisis that erupted in 2007/2008, a number of legislative initiatives in the field of eu financial services were launched with the aim of restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and putting the lessons learned from the crisis into practice. this own-initiative report is a first step in taking stock of this legislative work, in the context of major new commission initiatives such as the investment package and the capital markets union. there is no need for a mere cosmetic operation to a set of economic and financial rules that have made the eu, and in particular the eurozone, immune to external shocks and the global demand black hole. moreover, entrusting the governance of financial markets to the commission (such as the capital markets union) is like putting a fox in a henhouse. the first and only effective action to be taken is the (coordinated, hopefully) dismantling of the economic and monetary union, followed by the consequent dissolution of the banking union. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the completion of the capital markets union, with the aim of overcoming the fragmentation of financial markets by reducing the dependency of firms on the banking system. the text focuses on alternative financing channels to bank loans through greater financialization of the economy (to be carried out through new instruments, such as peer to peer lending and crowdfunding, as well as others already known as securitization). the solution to fostering more growth and employment was therefore found in the further expansion of finance, forgetting that it is precisely in the dominance of finance over the real economy that the crisis itself has its roots. the proposal, which calls for greater consistency both within eu legislation and within the international framework, also fails to take account of the specificities of european smes and the harm that standardisation of financial products would cause them. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of the own-initiative report because i believe that financial stability and consumer protection are a priority for the legislator's action. the measure aims to address the shortcomings in the regulation of financial services. the rapporteur also believes that the current legislation must be fully implemented and strictly applied in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must not only not forget the lessons of this crisis, but we must not stop watching because there is still so much to learn. the legislation that followed the 2007-2008 crisis in particular needs to be implemented and we cannot afford to relax, because distraction in this sector can lead to enormous damage, which is spread mainly to the innocent, and this is not politically acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the real competitiveness of european legislation and the financial sectors of the european union is a crucial challenge for financial services regulation. such regulation should be consistent and proportionate, especially in relation to existing initiatives on smes and sme funding. the lack of information on the financial situation of these companies is still one of the main obstacles to investment. in view of this, i felt i had to vote in favour of this own-initiative report and i hope that sound financial stability can be restored soon, particularly by strengthening consumer protection, encouraging investment and putting into practice the lessons learned from the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a capital markets union (cmu) with the aim of overcoming the fragmentation of financial markets by reducing the dependency of firms on the banking system. the focus is on alternative financing channels to bank lending through increased financialization of the economy, both through new instruments such as peer to peer lending and crowdfunding, and through instruments already in use such as securitisation. the latter remains a too complex and expensive financing channel to meet the financing needs of smes, which need local banks that can know directly the territorial context in which the company operates. cmu will make the economic system more fragile, interconnected and exposed to systemic risks and new crises at the expense of growth and the real economy. it will not solve the problem of financing smes, which need stable, sustainable and long-term sources of credit. it is also dangerous and irresponsible to promote market integration in the absence of structural banking reform based on the separation of credit and investment activities and real regulation of the shadow banking system. my vote is therefore against.
in writing. ‒ the dangerous fluctuations caused by the oil price fall, the instability of the financial markets in china and the unresolved knots in the economic and financial structure may once again be explosive for the fragile economic growth in europe and italy. so when we think about financial reform in europe we should act with the possible dangers we might encounter if we were to loosen some of the regulatory framework that the european institutions have painstakingly carried forward over the years. today it is time to read the history of the last few years and strengthen those reforms implemented as emir and still to be implemented as mifid ii and mmf in a key of economic recovery, which does not mean reducing their scope, but making them consistent with an economy not yet ready for new global challenges. it is up to us as legislators to start work on making the capital markets union a winning challenge for all european economies, not just those which have already developed platforms in this sense, by overcoming the credit problems especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. for these reasons i thought it necessary to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on eu regulation of financial services. the lack of uniformity in the regulation of these services has often led to the adoption of less stringent rules to attract firms, with negative results for the functioning of the internal market. i believe that the implementation of the legislative process in this particular area is essential in terms of coordination and transparency, in order to ensure the overall competitiveness of the eu's financial sectors. to do so, it is necessary that the esas and the ssm have a decisive role to play in achieving the objectives of better regulation and supervision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the budget and the challenges of the recent financial services legislation: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the last parliamentary term ended with unprecedented financial legislation, as a result of the financial crisis imported from the united states. a substantial part of it has entered into force, another part is still being implemented. the european legislator therefore faces a major challenge: firstly, to ensure that the existing legislation is properly applied, and secondly, to complete the banking union with the third pillar of the european deposit insurance system, which is more necessary than ever to protect european depositors wherever they have deposits, to ensure that the rules are applied uniformly, and to ensure that they are applied with certainty and that discretion is reduced. equal commitment is required to achieve the objective of creating a capital markets union that will expand credit opportunities for european businesses, diversify the source and increase the competitiveness of the system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the budget and on the challenges of eu regulation in financial services. the report aims to highlight the importance of a thorough analysis of the impacts of legislation that have not been properly assessed. both financial stability and consumer protection remain priorities, and the report identifies the overall competitiveness of eu legislation and eu financial sectors as a key challenge in regulating financial services.
in writing. ‒ this report confirms that much progress has already been made in overcoming the financial crisis of 2007-08; however, we must continue to work to prevent future financial crises. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to support the real economy, but we must not forget that the financial sector is the real nerve of this economy. the real economy depends on the financial sector, so we must ensure that both are strong enough to continue on the road to progress. that is why i voted in favour of the report calling for more rules for financial services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr balz's report because i believe it is important that financial stability and consumer protection remain the priorities of the legislators and that more weight is given to the application of a coherent risk-based approach. i also believe that the overall competitiveness of european legislation and the eu's financial sectors is a challenge for financial services regulation, the quality of which also depends on the transparency and timeliness of the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ having taken note of all the actions taken to deal with the crisis that erupted in 2007/2008, i believe that it is appropriate to focus on long-term growth through, for example, diversification of funding channels. i am also concerned that the gaps and inconsistencies in the european financial services legislation may be detrimental to the activities of smes, which are struggling to navigate the regulatory maze. i therefore welcome the presentation of the resolution which complements and harmonises the rules, also on the basis of the comments of the itre committee, and i feel i can firmly express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the financial and debt crisis of 2007-2008, a number of legislative initiatives have been launched in the field of eu financial services, with the aim of restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and putting the lessons learned from the crisis into practice. many of these legislative acts have already been implemented and applied or will be implemented in the near future. but there are challenges ahead. a thorough impact assessment of the financial services framework, which should be repeated at regular intervals and based on efficient regulation, can undoubtedly yield better results. in addition, mandatory consistency and proportionality checks should ensure that the application of financial services legislation is less complex and is more understandable and better adapted to the needs of small and medium-sized entities. the member states will have to apply the existing legislation strictly. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union has made a huge effort in recent years to regulate a banking and financial system that has suddenly plunged into a serious crisis. much has been done, but sometimes, pressed by contingency, in a somewhat hasty manner. it is therefore time to review what has been done, its usefulness, any errors and to propose the necessary changes to further improve the system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it gives a balanced account of the legislative work carried out by financial institutions following the debt crisis that erupted in 2008. i also believe that the report provides a good opportunity to reflect not only on the shortcomings of the current regulation but also on the overall impact of the legislative measures on financial services, especially with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises. it is time to put the lessons of the crisis into practice and to analyse carefully the initiatives taken so far, with a view to responding effectively and reasonably to future challenges.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report on eu regulation of financial services, which provides a comprehensive overview of the impact of recent financial services legislation and its effectiveness in financing the real economy and small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that all financial sectors are undergoing profound changes, including banking and insurance, and therefore need the creation of a capital markets union as an opportunity to strengthen the eu economy. in fact, considering that the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and its widespread negative repercussions were caused, inter alia, by the failure to implement adequate and quality financial services regulation for increasingly complex markets and products, i believe that it is necessary to actively participate in the construction of a regulatory framework that ensures financial stability, making the system more resilient to shocks, limiting risks and better responding to the needs of investors. all of this is to the benefit of the union's real economy.
in writing. ‒ the economic system is made even more fragile and exposed to systemic crisis risks by the capital markets union envisaged in this report, to the detriment of real economic growth, european businesses and savers. the text adopted emphasises the predominant role of finance in the real economy. the special financing needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, which need stable and long-term sources of credit, are best understood only by local banks and not by volatile capital markets and short-term speculative logic, as is proposed. the report, on the contrary, relaunches instruments such as securitisation, insisting on a financial channel which is too complex and burdensome for smes. i believe that the push for further market integration and regulatory uniformity is dangerous and irresponsible. the european economic system thus remains unstable without the implementation of a separation between credit and investment banking activities. for these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a capital markets union (cmu) with the aim of overcoming the fragmentation of financial markets by reducing the dependency of firms on the banking system. such a union is certainly going in the wrong direction. the solution to fostering more growth and employment has been identified in a further expansion of finance, forgetting that the crisis was generated precisely by the dominance of finance over the economy. the cmu is in fact promoting further financialization of the economy, a revival of non-bank lending and securitisation. the latter remains a too complex and expensive financing channel to meet the financing needs of smes, which need local banks that can understand the territorial context in which the companies operate. cmu will make the economic system more fragile, interconnected and exposed to systemic risks. it will therefore not solve the problem of financing smes which need stable, sustainable and long-term sources of credit. finally, there is the irresponsible promotion of market integration in the absence of structural banking reform based on the separation of credit and investment activities and real regulation of the shadow banking system.
in writing. the own-initiative report welcomes the commission's proposal to create a capital markets union (cmu) which aims to reduce the dependency of businesses on the banking system in favour of financial markets. i voted against this report because i think the cmu is going in the wrong direction in that it is not addressing the causes of the crisis. the solution to foster more growth and employment has been identified in a further expansion of finance through alternative forms of lending such as peer to peer lending, crowdfunding and securitisation, forgetting that the crisis was generated precisely by the dominance of finance over the real economy. the capital markets union thus conceived will make the economic system more exposed to systemic risks at the expense of savers. the report does not address the need for smes to have stable markets and longterm financing. the document focuses on capital markets, which are volatile and driven by short-term speculative logic. i believe that it is dangerous and irresponsible to promote further integration of markets in the absence of structural banking reform based on the separation of credit and investment activities.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the employment rate for men in the eu was 70.1%, while that for women was only 59.6%. unfortunately, these percentages fall even further when we look at the female entrepreneurship sector in europe. the factors that most influence women to prefer employed employment to freelance work have been identified in the difficult access to finance and the complicated work-life balance, especially with regard to maternity rules. in line with european policies for economic growth and job creation, the eu must support women's entrepreneurial activities, trying to meet the demands and needs of a category still discriminated against by old social legacies. i therefore voted in favour, confident that new measures will be taken to ensure equal opportunities for men and women.
in writing. ‒ women's entrepreneurship represents one of the largest untapped potential in the european union: in 2012, only 31% of entrepreneurs were women, a negative figure especially when considered in light of the existence of realities in which the name of women is used, as a nickname, to obtain tax and legislative benefits. i voted in favour of the report on external factors that constitute obstacles to female entrepreneurship to support the eu's efforts in this area. opening up new spaces for women in the world of self-employment means first of all promoting growth and employment in all member states, and also encouraging positive mechanisms of cultural change. commitment to this means making childcare and eldercare facilities available and affordable; the aim of the programme is to promote the reconciliation of private life and professional activity and to promote an equitable distribution of family responsibilities between women and men. the european union must promote a holistic approach to women's entrepreneurship, combating gender stereotypes, fostering the creation of an environment that develops women's entrepreneurial potential and facilitating access to finance.
in writing. ‒ the report is balanced and shareable, and it does not fall into the usual gender rhetoric we are used to, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ promoting entrepreneurship is a key driver of employment, economic growth, development and innovation, a top priority of the european union and at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. despite this, european numbers are well below the entrepreneurship rates of china or the united states. this issue is linked to another major challenge, that of gender equality. inequalities between women and men are evident in the entrepreneurial professions: in 2012, women accounted for only 31% of the total self-employed in the eu-28. the causes of this situation are many, ranging from difficulties in reconciling family life and professional careers to obstacles in accessing finance. for these reasons, i believe that the only answer must be to promote a holistic approach to female entrepreneurship, aimed at building a framework that enables women to realise their potential, while also encouraging an entrepreneurial culture in education and training, which also makes them more aware of the economic and social opportunities at stake. the solution to this problem is a priority: i therefore supported this report, which calls on the commission to come forward with concrete legislative proposals on this by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe that it is the task of the european union and its institutions to remove all obstacles to the development of women's entrepreneurship. the benefits of developing women's entrepreneurship would be innumerable and would have a positive impact on society as a whole, not just economically.
in writing. ‒ female entrepreneurship and the employment rate of women in europe are still under-represented in relation to the europe 2020 targets. the difficulties in ensuring work-life balance, access to finance and proper procedural information, together with the prejudices they face, still prevent many women from competing on an equal footing with men in the contemporary world of entrepreneurship. the union must work to remove the remaining obstacles, both material and cultural, by ensuring equal opportunities and promoting female entrepreneurship, which, in both the social and more traditional sectors, represents a means of personal emancipation, social advancement and economic development not only for individuals but also for the entire economic community, which will only grow and develop effectively again when its average domestic entrepreneurship and employment rate approaches the europe 2020 targets.
in writing. ‒ the report presents no problems and does not fall into the usual gender rhetoric, privileging or discriminating against women depending on their sexual orientation, immigrant or not, etc. the report encourages member states to recognise the value of female entrepreneurship to their economies and calls on member states to come forward with concrete strategies to exploit the full potential of women as entrepreneurs. welcomes the creation of the various european networks of women entrepreneurs and urges the equal opportunities bodies in the member states to raise awareness among funders of the obligation to ensure equal treatment and to study the possibility of introducing gender equality in investment mandates. encourages the member states to promote an entrepreneurial culture in education and training programmes and stresses the importance of providing courses on finance, entrepreneurship and the development of new businesses in secondary education, especially in the courses more frequented by girls, such as healthcare and other services; it also calls on schools and universities to encourage girls and women to study subjects that open up career opportunities in finance and high-growth sectors such as technology, including green technologies. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on external factors that hinder european women's entrepreneurship today because i believe that female entrepreneurship is a key policy issue for the european institutions. unfortunately, the gender gap is still very high in eu countries and not just in the field of entrepreneurship. most women do not consider entrepreneurship as a career option. the current share of women entrepreneurs in the eu is 33%, while only 34.4% of self-employed people in the eu are women. there is still a long way to go, and unfortunately we are still a long way from the full application of european legislation. europe needs to commit to working with national authorities to address those areas, such as access to credit and entrepreneurial networks, where the needs of women entrepreneurs are still not sufficiently addressed. this type of policy is also crucial to stimulating economic growth, prosperity and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to tackle the problems facing women in the field of entrepreneurship today, which unfortunately in europe is still characterised by considerable differences between men and women. there are many obstacles faced by women who want to enter the business world: access to finance (the banking sector often discourages women's participation and finds it more difficult to provide funds for them); the difficult balance between work and private life and, above all, the need to overcome long-standing cultural and social legacies which require a full awareness on the part of society of the equal opportunities which must be guaranteed to men and women. the report is an invitation to the european commission to implement new measures and to make greater efforts to increase female participation.
in writing. ‒ for many women, self-employment and business creation have been the solution to unemployment and often the preferred way of reconciling family and working life. whatever the reasons for their choice of entrepreneurship, only 31% of selfemployed people in the european union today are women. despite european legislation and community guidelines calling on member states to create conditions for equal access to the labour market for men and women, it is still difficult for women entrepreneurs to obtain bank and insurance guarantees or access credit, despite the fact that they are rarely insolvent when it comes to repaying loans compared to men. these difficulties have not only discouraged the start-up of new activities but also limited their development and reduced the potential for job creation. to get europe back on the growth tracks and reach the 75% female employment target by 2020, not only does european legislation need to be implemented, but the credit world needs to overcome mistrust of women. one of the reasons why i voted in favour is the call for the commission to monitor the states to create an environment favourable to the development of women's enterprise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i recognise the value of women's entrepreneurship as a key contribution to the development of local communities and social inclusion. in 2012, women accounted for only 31% of the total self-employed in the eu-28. statistics show that women have less recourse to external financing, have difficulty accessing equity financing and tend to choose more expensive forms of capital raising. although directive 2004/113/ec expressly prohibits financial services from discriminating in the provision of bank loans, i feel it is necessary to stress the issue of differential treatment in access to credit for women entrepreneurs by financial service providers.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate mrs barbara matera, who has been able to compile a long and exhaustive list of issues related to female entrepreneurship in europe. whether we are talking about prejudices or material obstacles, the european economy cannot and must not do without the resources that women can bring to the economic scene. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in its strategies to boost the economy and create new jobs, the european union should not overlook two key factors: to provide access to more entrepreneurs and adopt a strategy for smart and sustainable growth. unfortunately, there are still too many cases of gender discrimination in the area of women entrepreneurship, in access to credit, equal economic independence is not guaranteed and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy have so far not made significant progress in this direction. i therefore believe that, in order to prevent these critical issues from having a negative impact on the economy, more initiatives to promote employment and respect for gender equality should be encouraged. i therefore support the european parliament's motion for a resolution, and hope that many of the obstacles to female entrepreneurship in europe will be effectively removed.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to address the problems faced by women in entrepreneurship today, which in europe is still characterised by significant differences between men and women. there are a number of factors which hinder women's access to the business world and with this report the femm committee has wanted to address a call to the european commission to implement new measures and greater efforts to increase female participation. one of the obstacles identified is access to finance, as the banking sector often does not favour women's participation and has a harder time allocating funds to them. another obstacle is the difficulty of balancing work and life. the report also refers to the failure to adopt the maternity leave directive and calls for new measures to remedy this situation and to enable women to combine work and family life. the need for specific training in entrepreneurship and the overcoming of old cultural and social legacies is also highlighted. i think it is a good report and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution i voted for encourages member states to recognise the value of female entrepreneurship to their economies and the obstacles to be overcome. in order to reduce these obstacles, the european parliament believes that the gender dimension should be fully integrated into future entrepreneurship policy and calls on the member states to come forward with concrete strategies to promote a culture of female entrepreneurship through easier access to finance, the use of information and networks, greater education and training in entrepreneurship, and taking into account the need to focus on the needs, motivations and conditions for eliminating gender stereotypes, as well as different management and leadership methodologies and new organisational and management models of enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the data speak for themselves and the gap between male and female entrepreneurship is huge in terms of both employment and net earned income. the heavy burden of family and parental care and the traditional gender roles of women and men are hampering women's entrepreneurial ambitions and potential. contrary to the claims that women are more risk averse and less self-confident, it should be acknowledged that there is a tendency in society to consider a female entrepreneurial project less likely to succeed, with a consequent greater difficulty for women to access finance. my vote on this report is in favour, as it calls on the european commission and the member states to establish strategic policies and take concrete action to enable a reconciliation between work and personal life, facilitating access to services, guaranteeing access to credit, tax and financial support for women entrepreneurs, including through european microfinance instruments such as progress. through further cultural change to remove stereotypes and all forms of discrimination, it will therefore be possible to remove barriers and allow women entrepreneurs to express their full potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european commission must use all the instruments at its disposal to encourage girls and women to take up entrepreneurial careers. in the european union, only 30% of entrepreneurs are women. this is a very unsatisfactory situation and it is for this reason that new rebalancing policies and new measures are needed to remove the obstacles to the free expression of women's entrepreneurial vocation and to provide women with effective tools and concrete opportunities to do business in europe. it will also be important to ensure funding opportunities for female entrepreneurship, which, in terms of access, often crumble on the rocks of negative cultural stereotypes about women's success in entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ all the data show that there are still inequalities between men and women in the world of entrepreneurship. this report effectively highlights the external factors that hinder female entrepreneurship and that need to be addressed as soon as possible to end this unacceptable situation and allow women to realise their extraordinary potential.
in writing. i can only support this report with conviction, which stresses the urgency of ensuring equal rights and opportunities for men and women in the european business world. this is an opportunity for europe to reiterate that the removal of inequalities and the fight against all forms of discrimination are the cultural engines that form the foundation of the union and drive it towards development and social and economic growth. i therefore share the need to promote instruments to help women to achieve a better balance between their private and professional lives, and i particularly stress the importance of providing for new financial investments to promote the growth and opportunities of female entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's non-legislative resolution on external factors that hinder european women's entrepreneurship because i am firmly convinced that women entrepreneurs and female entrepreneurship in general represent an extraordinary potential for eu growth, which unfortunately remains largely unexplored. i shared the structure of the own-initiative report, and in particular those drivers of women's participation in the european economy which the eu has a duty to promote. i am thinking not only of access to credit and adequate financing, but also of new professions and the participation of women in digital entrepreneurship. furthermore, i believe that the development of women's entrepreneurship and the social economy in the eu, in which women can play a leading role, is a great opportunity for growth throughout the eu. the eu must promote work-life balance in the member states by means of appropriate legislation on parental leave and maternity rights for the self-employed. the current figure of 31% for women entrepreneurs in the eu needs to be rapidly increased if the eu is to achieve the employment target of the eu 2020 strategy, and parliament will strongly support good policies that promote women's work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on external factors that constitute obstacles to european women's entrepreneurship. this is a key policy issue for the european institutions, synonymous with economic growth and job creation. although female entrepreneurship has been a political priority since the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the european union is still far behind in this area. europe must support women's participation in the labour market, encourage member states and regions to come forward with concrete strategies to promote a culture of female entrepreneurship, focusing on the needs and conditions for the elimination of gender stereotypes, and invest in programmes that enable the continuing training of women workers and entrepreneurs, ensuring their continuous updating and quality professional growth, with particular regard to the commercial sector.
in writing. ‒ women account for only one third of entrepreneurs in the european union. they face specific obstacles in accessing financing and bank loans, for example. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. among other measures, it calls for the promotion of an entrepreneurial culture in education and training that encourages more women to pursue careers in lucrative sectors with high growth potential, whereas they seem to focus on sectors considered less lucrative such as health care, education and community work. in the fields of finance, science and green technology, it and digital environments, men still dominate. it is also appropriate to include gender quotas for targeted support and to use community funds to ensure affordable quality care for children and the elderly, while also making a transversal contribution to improving work-life balance through the promotion of paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the proposal for a report on the promotion and stimulation of women's entrepreneurship. we know very well that the capacity to do business, especially innovative and social business, is an important lever to drive and sustain growth in europe. however, women account for less than a third of all entrepreneurs in europe and, in general, most women do not consider entrepreneurship as one of their career options. this is clearly a cultural problem which the european union must take up and try to remedy: this is why we call for a further effort both in terms of funding (increased visibility of entrepreneurship funding and easier access to funding for women entrepreneurs in innovative and sustainable sectors where there is a greater presence of men) and in a broader sense, by providing a holistic approach to female entrepreneurship, aimed at encouraging and supporting women in choosing a career as entrepreneurs, including by contributing to the creation of an environment that allows women to fully realize their potential by ensuring work-life balance, access to childcare facilities and calibrated training.
in writing. ‒ we need an inclusive europe, which recognises women as protagonists, including in the business world. it is therefore time to put in place solutions to close the gender gap in a sector still dominated by men. in view of the persistence of various forms of prejudice, it is necessary that the european institutions should commit themselves to supporting initiatives whose successful implementation would result in greater opportunities for women to participate in the community's economic life. the identification of measures aimed at achieving a better balance between family and work life, as well as the elimination of the prejudices that persist in terms of access to credit, would help to achieve a wider inclusion of women in the business environment. in the light of these considerations, i have decided to support mr matera's report, which deals with a subject which has hitherto been relegated to the margins of european political debate, with insight and foresight.
in writing. ‒ as the report highlights, there is a clear gender gap in the progress of entrepreneurial activities. i consider it to be the responsibility of the european union, through the continuous updating of its policies, to support the development of women's entrepreneurship. i believe that we need to increase the number of women entrepreneurs through grants or training courses on legal and technological issues. the aim of gender equality is a necessary foundation for achieving the growth we all want. i therefore feel i must vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, disparity rates in entrepreneurial careers between women and men suggest that much more work is needed to create an entrepreneurial culture that ensures a more balanced gender representation. in order to combat these differences, it is imperative to act first on the stereotypes that traditionally underpin gender views in our countries. advanced democracies cannot accept that within their societies the value of the role of women and their undisputed ability to operate at the same level and in the same areas culturally designed for men is not recognized. i therefore strongly supported this report in order to encourage an understanding of the factors which keep women out of the business world and to assess what action can be taken to bring about a decisive change of perspective. the text highlights the critical points on which an integrated plan between the commission and the member states is needed. in particular, progress must be made on the paternity leave directive, strategies must be devised to encourage universities to encourage young girls to choose predominantly male study profiles and facilitated access to information channels on the use of european funding must be developed.
in writing. ‒ in a europe committed to economic growth and job creation, entrepreneurship has a key role to play. in this context, however, women's entrepreneurship still suffers from differences in opportunities compared to men's. women often choose smaller businesses, more health and social care sectors and less external funding such as bank loans and credits from providers. this is confirmed by the fact that female entrepreneurs tend to have difficulties in accessing equity financing, are more cautious in their attitude towards economic and financial risk-taking and have less experience in financial management than their male counterparts. i am in favour of this own-initiative report and believe that a greater presence of women entrepreneurs can be a driving force within the market.
in writing. ‒ increased participation of women in the world of entrepreneurship will help the growth of the european union, bringing in new workforce, new perspectives, new ways of doing business. the most important obstacles still facing women today are the balance between work and home, the care of children and the elderly. access to funds is also a problem, because women are often less likely to access external funding and relying on their own resources alone limits their activity and their possibilities. the task of the european institutions should therefore be to promote a financial and entrepreneurial culture among women and to create a platform for the exchange of best practices and existing opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on external factors that constitute obstacles to female entrepreneurship aims to create the conditions for overcoming obstacles and overcoming challenges to achieve a higher female entrepreneurship rate, more in line with the europe 2020 targets, from 59% to 75%. women hold incredible entrepreneurial potential, which in turn leads to economic growth, jobs and greater empowerment of those engaged in experiences and social sectors in which they operate on an equal footing. women entrepreneurs also contribute to the creation of new development opportunities, the reduction of social exclusion and the strengthening of cohesion. the resolution encourages member states to become aware of the problem and to develop concrete strategies to promote and disseminate a culture of female entrepreneurship, and calls on them to develop programmes to assist, support and guide the launch of innovative activities aimed at creating new opportunities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report because it addresses the difficulties faced by women in entrepreneurship in europe. in fact, the latest data updated to 2012 show that only 31% of self-employed workers are women, who therefore mostly hold employed jobs. the report identifies some of the main criticisms for which the institutions are called upon to act: for example, access to finance and the difficult work-life balance. an important point raised in the report is the failure to adopt the maternity leave directive, which also touches on the question of the division of roles between spouses. the overcoming of certain old ideologies which relegate the role of women to that of housewives is essential to creating an entrepreneurial environment where men and women have the same career opportunities and fulfilment in terms of work and family. we voted against the paragraph which proposes to introduce gender quotas: we believe that in order to have a real presence of women in managerial and working roles, we must work a priori on real equal opportunities, thus assigning roles according to their own abilities and skills through transparent and equal merit criteria for all.
in writing. ‒ differences between women and men are still evident in entrepreneurial careers. there are many obstacles affecting the development of women's entrepreneurship, including the difficulty of reconciling work and private life and differences in access to external financing, such as bank loans and credits from suppliers. as the report highlights, women have enormous entrepreneurial potential and female entrepreneurship is synonymous with economic growth, job creation and women's empowerment. it is therefore necessary that governments and national authorities promote equal pay for men and women in the first place and that they ensure, through full cooperation with the financial sector, equal access to capital. the commission should diligently monitor the integration of the gender perspective in the allocation of eu funds related to entrepreneurship.
in writing. the report aims to address the problems facing women in entrepreneurship which are a major disincentive to women's participation in this field at european level. a trend is still holding up with women occupying more employee positions, focusing on sectors considered less profitable such as education, health care or community work. only 31% of european entrepreneurs are women. in this report, the femm committee has called on the european commission to implement new measures to increase women's participation in entrepreneurship. i voted in favour of the report because i strongly believe that we must overcome long-standing cultural and social legacies and implement the principles of gender equality with full awareness of the concept of equal opportunities. the main obstacles to be overcome are first and foremost access to credit, as the banking sector has more difficulty in providing financing to women. the text also calls on the european commission to adopt new measures to enable women to combine work and family life, reversing the traditional division of roles between spouses.
in writing. ‒ the eu plays a stimulating role in the social field, seeking to promote increased employment and information, as well as improved working conditions. unfortunately, youth unemployment has reached alarming levels in most european countries, making decisive action necessary. better management of european funds allocated for this purpose, simplification of administrative procedures and the development of more flexible education systems are the instruments identified to increase the effectiveness of the guarantees for young people. i voted in favour of this because of the importance of establishing a dialogue between employers and workers.
in writing. ‒ the fight against youth unemployment has always been a priority in my political work, which is why i voted in favour of the plura report today, which also calls for a strengthening of the youth guarantee. the economic crisis has created the most serious unemployment problem in the union's history, affecting more than four and a half million citizens under the age of 25. next to this figure are the 7 million neets, girls and boys who are not in education or in professional activities. this is a potentially explosive situation, with negative effects on careers, health and social mobility for an entire generation. member states, regional governments and local authorities have a duty to intervene by promoting strategies for the development of vocational skills and supporting higher education to enable the acquisition of skills essential for the world of work. youth entrepreneurship must be promoted and the positive role of smes and social and solidarity economy actors in terms of job creation must be enhanced. only with a sustained commitment by the institutions will it be possible to avoid the creation of a lost generation.
in writing. ‒ unemployment, especially youth unemployment, is a growing problem in our territories. 40% of our young people are unemployed, and the cause is not just the economic crisis, but the insane policies that this europe has put in place in recent years. although i agree with some of the points in this text, i cannot agree with the request that the member states should transfer their powers to the commission in the matter of identifying and defining the needs for vocational skills in the labour market. we have already given too much, we must not give more. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the worrying level of youth unemployment is a major challenge for the eu today, with some five million young people out of work. but alongside the lack of employment, we must also take account of the fact that there are some two million unfilled job vacancies. it is clear that we are faced with a twofold problem: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. this situation is causing enormous economic and social damage to europe. promoting integration and employability in the labour market requires more ambitious action and investment, as well as more targeted involvement and stronger cooperation between member states. in addition, to anticipate future skills demands, it will be essential to include all labour market actors at all levels, adapting education and training more effectively to labour market demands. this text, which i support with conviction, is exactly in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that youth unemployment is one of the worst scourges afflicting our continent and that it must therefore be eradicated. it is the task of the eu and its institutions to find solutions to support the employment of a generation which, although possessing more skills than previous generations, is suffering terribly from the current economic situation. the medium- and long-term future of the european economy itself depends on this.
in writing. ‒ at the end of 2014, the eu had an average youth unemployment rate of 21.4%, or more than 7 million unemployed young people. however, at the same time, 2 million jobs were unfilled in the eu. this indicates the need to improve the link between the world of training and the world of work, to develop more flexible and interdisciplinary skills. cooperation, participation and partnerships are the means to establish a constructive relationship with smes and the diverse european business community and to ease the current administrative and financial constraints on starting up new business activities, through simplified procedures, easy access to credit, venture capital and microfinance, guaranteed high-speed internet connections, tailor-made multidisciplinary advice and the introduction, where possible, of incentive measures for entrepreneurs who hire young unemployed people. the importance of microfinance and the european programme for employment and social innovation (easi) in achieving full youth employment is clear. only by improving the training pathway and creating a network of one-stop shops where all the administrative procedures necessary for setting up and running a business are carried out can we raise the rate of youth entrepreneurship in the short term.
in writing. - abstention from the vote. the most effective way of reducing unemployment, including youth unemployment, is to return to economic policies geared to domestic demand: more domestic demand = our firms increase production = more employment = more income = more domestic demand, and so on in a virtuous cycle that is the opposite of the current one imposed by the eu. the report not only does not mention this, but even suggests that the most effective solution would be to transfer the responsibility from the member states to the commission for identifying and defining the needs for vocational skills in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on skills policies to tackle youth unemployment. the numbers speak for themselves: in the european union, 4.5 million young people aged 15 to 24 are currently unemployed and over 7 million young europeans in this age group are neither in employment nor in education or training. these figures show how serious the situation is and that, unfortunately, it is young people who have been particularly affected by the crisis. i believe that a europe which is unable to guarantee a prosperous future to its young people is a europe without a future. member states, regional governments and local authorities should therefore implement strategies for the development and provision of skills, which are key elements of integrated employment and social policies that can help to combat unemployment and build a more inclusive european society. the youth employment initiative should also be improved to make it easier to implement this important initiative. the report contains these elements and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i had no choice but to vote in favour of this report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment, one of the greatest scourges of our society and one of the eu's main challenges. the report stresses the importance of more flexible education systems that allow the integration and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of the professional career. it also emphasises the key role played by enterprises, including smes, social and solidarity economy actors and micro-enterprises in vocational skills training and job creation for young people, and highlights the need to provide young people with an education that prepares them for entrepreneurship as widely as possible. several of our amendments have also been adopted and incorporated into the text. these include the important role that european funds can play if used more efficiently and strategically; the importance of high-quality on-the-job training and of not exploiting trainees as a low-cost, precarious workforce; effective implementation of the youth guarantee which can thus help to improve the employability of young people and can offer valuable work experience.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the worrying figures on youth unemployment in the member states, which in some states is reaching alarming levels, europe needs to support the development of the new skills required by the current labour market. the education systems of the member states need to adapt to these new developments through more effective training that integrates, for example, new technologies into the learning process or also allows the development of transversal skills and in line with the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore a priority to invest in educational models that combine theoretical and practical learning to facilitate the transition from education to employment. tackling unemployment in europe must be the priority for the coming years. an ageing europe cannot afford to 'waste' the talents and skills of its young people and in this respect i hope that the dutch presidency will do its utmost to support young people and future generations. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report because it identifies the new training needs required by the labour market which will ensure greater employment opportunities for young europeans.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support the measure in question. the alarming level of youth unemployment is one of the main challenges facing the eu today, with almost 5 million young people out of work. this situation constitutes a serious threat to the social cohesion and economic development of the eu.
in writing. ‒ mr marek plura has done a very good job in drafting this report. he was good at stressing that the recovery of employment must be achieved by exploiting skills, because the time of generalists is over and everyone must create value through what they do best. the key to a modern labour market is skills, it's knowledge, and the well-being of my country is a shining example of this: the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to make the community more competitive, and in its efforts to make the community more competitive. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ it is now well known that the level of youth unemployment is one of the main challenges facing the european union today. to respond adequately to this challenge, account must be taken of a number of factors, including globalisation, demographic change, new technologies and modern work organisation. in this sense, education systems should be more flexible and in line with the needs of young people to enter the labour market with a well-established background of knowledge and skills. to do this, whatever path the young person takes, it is necessary that it should be able to provide him with the basis for being a valid candidate for the positions relevant to his abilities. i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution, considering that young people are the primary resource for the future of the union and that these initiatives will promote social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ the alarming level of youth unemployment is one of the eu's main challenges today. the report stresses the importance of more flexible education systems, which allow for the integration and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of the professional career. stresses the key role played by enterprises, including smes, social and solidarity economy actors and micro-enterprises in vocational skills training and job creation for young people; highlights the need to provide young people with an education that prepares them for entrepreneurship as broadly as possible. it stresses the important role that european funds can play if they are used more efficiently and strategically as an important tool for the growth and development of universities and enterprises. it also stresses the importance of high-quality on-the-job training and the need to avoid exploiting trainees as a cheap and precarious workforce. it stressed the need to simplify the administrative procedures for implementing the youth guarantee, to assess their real employment needs and the real areas of job development, and the urgency of removing any bureaucratic obstacles which might limit its effectiveness. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report helps to raise awareness of the fact that high levels of youth unemployment continue to be one of the most difficult problems facing the union. the current recovery has not proved itself capable of reversing the trend and has shown the need for policy responses to better match skills to labour market needs. addressing youth unemployment remains a top priority; we are in danger of burning a whole generation of young people with high-level profiles and cvs which, beyond any other consideration, represent an added value for europe which cannot be wasted. the youth guarantee has not produced the results hoped for, because it lacks adequate resources and, above all, a 'european' strategic design. but this is where we must start again, by strengthening it and correcting the errors and the mechanisms that have not worked. europe will only be a better place if there are opportunities for growth and concrete fulfilment for all young people.
in writing. youth unemployment is the biggest challenge facing the eu and particularly the southern european member states. in addition, there are about two million unfilled job vacancies in the union. this phenomenon threatens european social cohesion and it is therefore vital, also to combat school drop-out, to overcome austerity policies. the plura report identifies 'flexible' education systems, which allow for the constant development of skills and knowledge throughout the professional career, as a way of combating unemployment. we have stressed how european funds can be a useful element for the growth and development of universities and businesses and have called for more financial resources to inform the public about the tools available. at the same time, however, there is a need for supervision and monitoring of the actual use of these resources, which has been incorporated in the report. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on skills policies to combat youth unemployment. it is vital for the european union to foster new impetus for employment, growth and investment by supporting member states in getting young people into the labour market. in particular, a smooth transition from education to work should be promoted by linking theoretical education with practical training and by ensuring that workers acquire social security rights, which must not be exploited for any reason. i think it is important that member states should once again share good practice, including through the development of monitoring and forecasting instruments in the field of employment.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is still one of the most worrying problems facing the european union. this is a situation that threatens the future of millions of young people and their families. in this report we have taken account of the structural barriers which prevent young people from entering the labour market, identifying the need for a holistic approach which overcomes the ineffective structural policies of the past.
in writing. ‒ to accelerate and overcome the contingency of the economic crisis, europe needs to put in place all the medium- and long-term financial measures and political strategies that the particularly delicate historical moment requires. but to imagine real growth for our future means first of all reducing the unemployment rate of our young people: the fact that there are seven million young people who are neither in employment nor in education is unacceptable, and it is even more unacceptable if the analysis tells us that there are currently two million unemployed in europe. this means that there is currently no systematic and intelligent management of demand and supply in the labour and, even earlier, in the training sector, generating highly qualified young people for already saturated channels and large, vibrant and receptive sectors that are destined to suffer from a shortage of labour. it is a paradox which we must put an end to immediately. only by giving our young people easier and more democratic access to the world of work can we think of a real acceleration of the european machine in terms of competitiveness, development and new business horizons. i therefore find it important to support this report, stressing above all the urgency of a new philosophy of school education: the network is forward-looking, multidisciplinary and closely linked to the landscape and needs of the professional network.
in writing. ‒ the level of youth unemployment has hit most european countries hard, putting a strain on their labour markets, with particularly serious effects on the employment prospects of young people, with profoundly negative consequences for the future of the younger generation. unemployment remains alarmingly high and is rising steadily, with almost 5 million young people out of work. it is essential to promote concrete initiatives to encourage integration and employment in the labour market, to implement immediately social protection measures to counter the economic and social effects of unemployment, and to support specific measures in member states to help young people enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ young people are our most important resource, even if they are the least developed in europe, as the very high rate of youth unemployment shows. in this context i agree with the rapporteur that more work is needed to improve the situation of young people in europe. i therefore support the recommendations in the report on the crucial role of education and individual skill development in bringing down the rate of youth unemployment in europe. we need to make sure that europe's young people are well prepared to meet the challenges of the 21st century economy and that flexible education at all levels is the key to the future.
in writing. ‒ in the eu there are, on the one hand, more than 7 million young people who are neither employed nor in education or training (neets) and, on the other, 2 million job vacancies, with many unemployed young people who are overqualified and whose skills do not match the needs of the labour market. my vote in favour of this resolution underlines the need to build strong partnerships between employment and training services and at the same time to improve cooperation and interaction between education and vocational training, public administration, youth and student organisations and the world of work in order to maximise the quality of education and training. in order to ensure that young people have greater access to the labour market, i believe it is important to review training programmes, where possible, in anticipation of the needs of the labour market. i also firmly believe that supporting a continuous dialogue between education institutions and employers, as well as the sharing of good practice in vocational training and the development of skills-based training, including practical and entrepreneurial training, are among the most effective tools for resolving skills mismatches. youth employment, education and training must remain eu policy priorities.
in writing. ‒ given the worrying level of youth unemployment, which affects five million young people in the european union, and the persistent gap between women's placement in the labour market and their training, we welcome the plura report. the text, in fact, recognises the seriousness of a problem which could undermine economic development and social cohesion in europe, and promotes a holistic approach to the issue. this strategy, taking into account the wide range of phenomena, from globalisation to the economic crisis, which have shaped the present circumstances, is capable of overcoming the strictly sectoral criterion which has characterised the implementation of policies aimed at supporting employment. the current crisis is also closely linked to european education systems, which are often far removed from the economic sector. the need for an education policy is therefore to reform university institutions and bring them closer to the needs of the productive system. to this end, a link between higher education institutions and enterprises, including in terms of economic support, could certainly facilitate a more efficient placement of young people in the labour market. the challenges of modernity also require greater flexibility in training pathways, starting with the integration and updating of skills in phases even after entry into the market.
in writing. ‒ the alarming level of youth unemployment is one of the main challenges facing the eu today, with almost 5 million young people out of work. i support the report because i believe that we need more flexible education systems which allow the integration and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of the professional career. there are two dimensions of skills that enable people to enter the labour market and to retain their jobs: core competencies and specific competencies related to particular jobs or positions. it is also necessary to determine which level of governance has the most effective tools to identify and define skills needs.
in writing. ‒ the serious situation of employment policy in the european union requires us to look for all the measures to counteract this phenomenon. i welcome the measures contained in the resolution, such as the provision for more flexible education systems, and i hope that they will be implemented as soon as possible. i urge the commission and the member states, by my vote in favour, to adopt as soon as possible the structural reforms which the new market demands. i therefore reiterate my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ although young europeans are at the heart of the union's policies, the situation of youth unemployment in our countries today suggests that much remains to be done. the economic crisis and the contraction in demand have slowed down the achievement of ambitious economic goals, but the current consequences go beyond the question of unemployment itself and deeply affect a generation and its future. youth unemployment is also destabilising for the social balance at european level, as it erodes social cohesion and the community spirit. i voted for this resolution because i believe that we must work actively and jointly to bring european employment back up to growth levels. this can be achieved by applying a governance that takes account of changes in the labour market and differences in national markets, together with national action aimed at providing education systems that make young people competitive and aware to face today's labour market where, in addition to a general theoretical preparation, a set of operational skills must be integrated to enable adaptation to the new balance between supply and demand.
in writing. ‒ one of the eu's main challenges is to combat youth unemployment. there are almost 5 million unemployed people in the european union, but there are also 2 million unfilled job vacancies. factors such as globalisation, demographic change, the economic crisis, the advent of new technologies and changes in the organisation of work have put young people in a difficult position. new, more flexible education systems are therefore needed to develop knowledge and skills, including transversal skills, at all stages of the professional career. skills development and overcoming the 'stagnant compartments' of sectoral policies would enable young people to adapt easily to the changing socioeconomic context. hence the need for broad education and training providing high-level basic skills, business skills, focusing on information and communication technologies (ict), together with language skills that enable people to constantly acquire and apply new knowledge and to facilitate their adaptation to changes in the world of work. for all these reasons i support the adoption of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ complementing the education of young europeans with new skills, such as entrepreneurship and communication, to improve self-confidence, help them to start their own business and take risks and responsibilities. in addition, alternating schooling and workplace training should be strengthened by strengthening cooperation between educational institutions and the business community, as well as encouraging young people to participate in organisations representing their interests. only by understanding the strengths and weaknesses of these new generations can we defeat one of the scourges of the 21st century: youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is one of the european union's main challenges. some data help us to understand the seriousness of this phenomenon: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the report voted on today seeks to put forward some proposals to counteract this alarming trend. in particular, it is emphasised that the changing labour market requires more flexible education systems that allow the integration and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of the professional career and a review of school curricula to anticipate future market needs. it is also important that member states share good practice and work together to identify skills needs for available jobs. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on skills policies to combat youth unemployment, in response to the worrying rate of youth unemployment in europe and italy. at present, 4.5 million young people aged 15 to 24 are unemployed in europe. the commission also found that the union industry had suffered material injury during the period considered. i consider it a priority to solve the problem of youth unemployment in europe, in particular by providing young people with skills during their training that are applicable to existing jobs and that facilitate their entry into the labour market. this requires close cross-sectoral cooperation between employment and education services to prepare students for professional fulfilment, including by revising training programmes to match market demands.
in writing. ‒ the report tackles the problem of youth unemployment, one of the biggest problems we have in the european union today. many of the amendments tabled by our fellow spokeswoman, mrs laura agea, have been adopted and incorporated into the report with great satisfaction. the amendments incorporated underlined: the important role of european funds if used efficiently; the dissemination of information on european funding instruments also to universities and businesses; the need to reduce the risks of early school leaving; effective implementation of the youth guarantee which can help to reduce youth unemployment by creating new job opportunities. the report also stresses the key role of education systems: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european social fund. the role of smes and micro-enterprises as strategic learning laboratories for young people and as possible training and learning venues is also highlighted.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is a scourge for our society. fighting it must be our priority. more flexible education systems, multidisciplinary approaches, support for entrepreneurial culture and better links between school and work are needed. i think it is extremely important to involve young people in decision-making processes, to create partnerships between local authorities, employment services and businesses. the local authorities also need to be given appropriate training to use european funds more effectively and strategically. i believe it is essential to ensure entrepreneurship training at all levels of education, to remove administrative and financial obstacles to starting and running businesses by simplifying procedures, and to ensure easier access to microfinance and credit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which promotes policies to combat youth unemployment by developing new skills required by the labour market. the problem of youth unemployment affects millions of young european citizens, and reducing it remains a priority, otherwise europe will lose an entire generation. governments must commit themselves to the proper implementation of the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee. it is crucial to increase the long-term benefits of the opportunities we offer to this population.
in writing. reducing the alarming level of youth unemployment is one of the eu's main challenges today. at the same time there are two million unfilled jobs for which there is no adequately trained staff. this situation constitutes a serious threat to the social cohesion and economic development of the eu. the five star movement worked hard on this text, proposing amendments against youth unemployment and working to get them passed. the report, which i voted in favour of, stresses the importance of more flexible education systems which allow for the integration and development of knowledge and skills at all stages of the professional career. the key role played by enterprises, including smes, social and solidarity economy actors and microenterprises in vocational skills training and job creation for young people is also highlighted. the text also highlights the need to provide young people with an education that prepares them for entrepreneurship as widely as possible. the real employment needs for the future and the areas of job development for young people, with a focus on the social and green economy, which are the objective of the coming years, must be clarified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text we voted for clearly defines the opportunities and challenges facing europe in building a truly integrated digital single market, and i hope that the commission will take this into account. harmonised rules on cross-border trade should be established to provide legal protection for consumers and businesses when buying and selling digital content, and, as regards the reform of copyright rules, rules should be put in place that focus on fair and adequate remuneration for creators and other rights holders. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. only if the european union can move in this direction, with a particular focus on the opportunities offered by big data, cloud computing and the internet of things, will the digital single market truly become a driver for growth and development capable of creating quality jobs and for young people.
in writing. ‒ the eu aims to create a digital single market that will enable the digital economy to expand, while ensuring more competitive services for consumers and growth for businesses. the strategy is to facilitate online access to products and services across europe, through a long and gradual legislative path on infrastructure investment, increased citizen participation in digital life and new rules for online commerce. in fact, only 15% of citizens buy online from another country and only 7% of businesses sell in another eu country. i therefore voted in favour, because the creation of a fully functioning digital single market could benefit the european economy and above all its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market represents a huge opportunity for the eu in terms of growth and jobs. the digital economy, based on creativity and innovation, is already a major reality on the continent, thanks in part to the €500 billion generated annually by e-commerce. i voted in favour of the report 'towards a digital single market act' because the challenge to europe's competitiveness can only be met in the field of innovative business models. you have to protect the opening. the inclusion and neutrality of the internet by facilitating access to the network, especially in those areas, largely rural, where digital infrastructure is lacking or inadequate. cloud computing, big data and the internet of things are great opportunities but they will also need to be considered with particular attention to the rights and working conditions of new digital workers, and with careful consideration of the impact that the erosion of normal working hours and increased intensity of work may have. finally, it will be important not only to eliminate unjustified geo-blocking, which encourages the proliferation of illegal content by consumers and unfair price discrimination, but also to encourage the development of a simplified and coherent online vat system.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the proposal to create a european governance, chaired by the commission, for the management of the digital market in europe. although the ongoing digital revolution requires great efforts on the part of businesses and administrations to make the most of the potential of technology, i am strongly opposed to the imposition of a top-down control of digital exchanges of goods, services and information. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the digital revolution affects all aspects of our society and implies important opportunities for entrepreneurs and businesses, as well as the creation of innovative tools available to all european citizens. in order to stimulate this transition, it is essential that the european regulatory framework encourages public and private investment in networks and infrastructure, focal points of the digital single market, by adapting laws to the digital age and by developing as a matter of urgency a harmonised legislative framework that provides investors with legal certainty and regulatory consistency. i supported this report, in particular, where it calls on the commission to define an inclusive strategy, including a strategy for the digital transformation of industry, a sector that benefits greatly from the added value of the digital economy. such a plan, together with a reinforced confidence in digital technologies, will be essential in order to increase the competitiveness of the european economy, increase the efficiency of technologies and fully exploit the untapped potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the creation of a digital single market, based on a common set of rules, can promote eu competitiveness, have a positive impact on growth and jobs, revitalise the single market and make society more inclusive through new opportunities for citizens and businesses, in particular through the exchange and sharing of innovation. i also believe that this would be a fundamental step towards the completion of the single market and the process of european integration.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has adopted a strategy for developing european businesses in the digital single market based on 16 initiatives to be implemented by the end of 2016. digital innovation continues to change the way citizens communicate, share, consume and act, introducing new opportunities for businesses and users alike. increased use of digital technologies can also improve citizens' access to information and culture, increase their employment opportunities and provide them with a wider choice of products; last but not least, it is capable of modernising and improving governance and administration within the union and its member states. the legislator's action must be carried out on three fronts: accessibility, to improve access to digital goods and services for consumers and businesses across europe; environmental, to create a favourable environment for the development of digital networks and innovative services; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. - i vote against. the commission believes that an eu digital single market will boost the competitiveness of european businesses, open up new opportunities for citizens and businesses, and boost growth and jobs. in particular, it is a question of creating a governance of the commission, by invoking the competences of the member states, on matters such as the internet, the internet of things, the collaborative economy, copyright, telecommunications, electronic commerce, networked pa; but by extension, it also includes education, the labour market, welfare, taxation, fundamental freedoms, and so on. the call for a digital proof and technology neutral regulatory framework is positive, but the text does not sufficiently emphasise the need to ensure that the digitisation process does not become an obligation for smes and micro-enterprises in traditional economic sectors such as manufacturing that is disproportionate to their actual resources and management and market needs. the report is all about extolling the progressive virtues of free trade and the principle of free movement for all, but it forgets a basic principle: i would like to ask you to give us a brief overview of the situation.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the commission's communication on the development of a digital single market. it is the prelude to a series of legislative initiatives which, according to the commission's work programme, should then be discussed in parliament next spring. the report is therefore a first document on this subject, but it certainly deserves our support because of the issues it deals with. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the union has been pursuing the goal of a digital single market for several years: the commission has also proposed a new approach to ensuring that european consumers have access to an ever-increasing range of goods and services, and a tool that will enable businesses to cross national borders and expand at european level. the potential and applications of new technologies are varied, including the improvement and modernisation of public administration and thus of citizens' lives. the implementation of such a large-scale project requires an appropriate regulatory framework, especially in terms of the protection and safeguarding of citizens' data, and especially at a sensitive time like this, when the privacy of individuals is subject to strict controls throughout europe. but it also means overcoming national regulatory barriers, aiming for common rules that will help the digital single market to take hold. in fact, one of the causes that has held back the full development of e-commerce, which is a real engine for growth, has been legislative fragmentation. it is therefore clear that a new approach is needed to prepare a digital single market that can capture the development and growth potential that can result from a better use of information technology. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the commission's digital single market strategy will significantly transform the european labour market by stimulating new job creation. the lack of legislative harmonisation is one of the main obstacles preventing smes and consumers from selling or buying online across the union. the use of digital technologies can improve citizens' access to information and culture, increase job opportunities and provide them with a wider choice of products. in addition, digitalisation will play a key role in public administrations by helping to improve governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, even beyond its specific merits, it is part of a process that has been affecting us all for some years now and which is strongly re-proposed for the future: a firm producing goods that interest 10% of the population, if it also has to compete with competitors, will probably not find it profitable to remain in a small market and will give up production. but if that market is ten times bigger, the numbers can get a lot more interesting, and if that company can tap into some of the excellence in raw materials, human resources, or whatever, it can take over the market. this is the essence of the digital single market: a ploy to expand the market and make sure that the good guys can play for a much higher stake by dragging the whole industry with them. it's a big bet, that a land of excellence like ours can't miss.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important own-initiative report of the european parliament on the digital single market. parliament has done a great deal of work and has produced a position of great democratic content, the result of a long evaluation of different interests and different points of view. the digital single market is a priority objective of the juncker commission and the hope is that all the necessary measures can be taken as soon as possible to make it effective, innovative and competitive, with the aim of making the market modern and, above all, productive of growth and employment, which we urgently need to meet the needs of our citizens and our businesses.
in writing. ‒ the kallas-gebhardt report is part of the juncker commission's macro-initiative for a digital single market. the report paves the way for a complex set of subsequent legislative initiatives, most of which should reach parliament by 2016. the major themes discussed (expanding europeans' participation in digital life, investing in infrastructure, reducing geoblocking, improving the rules for online commerce, building citizen confidence, etc.) deserve our support. our main amendments in the itre-imco procedure concerned the strengthening of the concept of digital citizenship, actions to combat the digital divide, the coordination of public and private investment, the strengthening of fundamental rights guarantees, specific opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, attention to workers' rights and environmental standards when facilitating cross-border activities, and the multidimensional care of citizen trust. given the relatively uncritical nature of the report and the lack of criticism, my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution promoting the creation of a digital single market based on a common set of rules because i believe it has the potential to boost the eu's competitiveness, have a positive impact on growth and jobs, revitalise the single market and make society more inclusive through new opportunities for citizens and businesses. in particular, we call on the commission and the member states to take all the necessary steps to: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market implies a more distributed, more participatory, more decentralised approach to innovation and this makes it potentially revolutionary compared to the old model, based on traditional, costly and impactful structures and infrastructures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. other areas of concern include cyber security, personal data protection, network addiction, the perversion of privacy and the difficulty of disconnecting to protect personal life. however, the opportunities for smes, widespread innovation, the revolution of the internet of things and the benefits in agriculture, tourism, industrial production, culture and services are undeniable contributions of the single market. it can also be used for energy and resource savings, improved efficiency and longer-lasting product performance in a circular economy. so despite some misgivings, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ europe must learn to take a more proactive approach to key issues such as the digital single market. in particular, other economies around the world are moving very fast to shape their future around digital and european businesses must not be left behind, especially those that represent the added value of our system: small and medium-sized enterprises. today there is a serious economic and cultural gap around this topic and much potential in both bureaucracy and data collection remains unexplored. moreover, applications of data science seem to be a reality in some european countries, while in others they are still viewed with a certain amount of fear and mistrust. it is time to reverse this trend through targeted investment in new technologies and new digital market skills such as data science. another key element is the introduction of greater coherence and therefore integration between national legislative bodies in this area, especially in the area of privacy and access to sensitive information. it is essential to have this act and all the necessary rules to make europe a digital leader so that it can be positioned at the most advanced technological frontier.
in writing. the kallas-gebhardt report focuses on the commission communication com ((2015) 0192) as part of the juncker commission's initiative for a digital single market. the digitisation of different aspects of economic and social life is seen as positive, as some elements that need to be supported have been included, such as the expansion of citizens' participation in digital life, which goes hand in hand with investment in infrastructure and the improvement of rules for e-commerce. the emphasis on the concept of digital citizenship and the fight against the digital divide is also positive. apart from some points on which we voted against, such as the support for the efsi, which we oppose, the report is not particularly critical. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the proposals contained in it meet the needs of both businesses and consumers. in particular, i welcome the call for actions to complete the digital single market in europe that have a positive impact on the development of eu competitiveness, promoting growth and jobs. in addition, this would allow for the emergence and growth of new innovative cross-border online services at competitive prices, the development of the sharing economy and the adoption of strategic tools that are conducive to innovation for online platforms that facilitate market access. further measures that need to be further invested and worked on are the development of e-skills for young people in schools and universities and an e-government action plan in public administrations.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market is a major achievement for the european union. this is a measure that has been awaited for years by businesses and consumers, and it is likely to generate a contribution to the european economy of €415 billion. we have great creative excellence in europe waiting for this measure, which will finally put an end to the obstacles which prevent companies in this sector from being able to compete on an equal footing with competitors overseas. we expect this measure to create jobs and benefit all sectors, from services to public administration to education. for these reasons we will continue to work to achieve these results as quickly as possible.
in writing. i find it very important that this report is adopted, as it sets out the general position of the european parliament on a priority issue such as the completion of the digital single market in europe. i would particularly like to highlight the work of coordination between many parliamentary committees, which has enabled parliament to respond with a strong and united voice to the european commission's communication, which presents the new digital strategy as one of the key points of president juncker's programme. i therefore look forward to the presentation of the many regulatory strategies expected for 2016, measures on which the committee on legal affairs will give its opinion with the aim of finally implementing innovative reforms in the field of digitisation, copyright, new services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the construction of the digital single market is now a reality and we all hope that it will be one of the great successes of the european union, which needs successes more than ever right now. but to succeed, it must first of all bridge the digital divide and ensure that consumers and businesses have access to the services it offers. there are areas, regions and areas in europe where broadband is still not available today. in this context and under these conditions, the completion of the digital single market risks widening the gap between the most developed regions and those which are technologically lagging behind. this is likely to become even more serious if we talk more about e-government than e-commerce. i believe that the digital single market is a great sign of progress and a tremendous opportunity for the well-being of european citizens. the aim must be to launch europe into the future, but we must be very careful not to create a-class citizens and b-class citizens.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report 'towards a digital single market act' which is a good report. the digital single market is one of the key sectors for economic growth and for the creation of thousands of new jobs, opening up new opportunities to stimulate the economy, through electronic commerce, while facilitating administrative and financial compliance for businesses. a digital single market is crucial as it can offer consumers better services at better prices, contribute to business growth, empower citizens, consumers and entrepreneurs, with easier online access to products and services across europe, and improve the conditions for digital networks and services to develop.
in writing. ‒ the role of the internet in the european economy is changing rapidly. it is therefore increasingly important that everyone in the eu has access to a fast and reliable internet. as the report says, almost 45% of eu citizens do not have access to the net and it is therefore necessary to ensure that this part of the population, with access to the net, can also contribute to the economy of the 21st century. given the changes in the digital economy, we need to ensure greater protection against illegal activities. once security is assured, the internet can be a conduit for further growth. i therefore agree with mr gebhardt and mr kallas that more work is needed to realise the full potential of the digital economy.
in writing. ‒ given the growing importance of the digital market and the need for progressive european integration in the strategic sectors of our economies, we welcome the report. the work being done by the european parliament on the digital single market is of crucial importance, as it aims to reduce barriers to access to the digital market and increase business and investment opportunities while safeguarding and, in some cases, enhancing consumer rights, especially in relation to the protection of personal data. in addition to these priorities, the report supports new investment in digital education to meet the growing demand from the world of work. i also believe that the digital single market can bring many benefits to european consumers, who will have a real chance of having access to more competitive prices for goods and services, thanks to their access to a wider and more competitive market. the digital single market could also be a source of opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will benefit from new investment and business opportunities in high-value-added sectors, from the creation of new jobs and from a very large and constantly growing potential market.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which provides an answer to the 16 proposals put forward by the european commission and further clarifies the actions to be taken to complete the digital single market and the consequences its implementation will have on society and the economy as a whole. the digital single market strategy is structured in three parts: improving access to digital goods and services for consumers and businesses across europe; to create a favourable environment and a level playing field for the development of digital networks and innovative services; maximising the growth potential of the digital economy. promoting a dynamic economy is necessary for innovation to flourish and innovative companies to grow, and it is therefore on this objective that the european commission and the member states should focus their efforts.
in writing. ‒ i believe that europe, through the creation of the digital single market, is responding effectively to the challenges that the continuing changes in digital technologies are proposing. i believe that the removal of local barriers and regulations would lead to enormous growth and thousands of jobs. my support for the resolution is clear, as it includes, among other important innovations, the modernisation of public administrations (e-governance) which will lead to a reduction in costs and an improvement in services to the citizen. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the achievement of a digital single market in europe is probably one of the most important objectives to be achieved during this legislature, given the impetus it can give to growth, jobs and technological innovation. i voted in favour of this report because it not only incorporates the good proposal of the commission, but it also considerably improves it, for example with regard to the impact on employment and society as a whole that the digital revolution can have. while we must do our best to unlock the market forces that will foster innovation, competitiveness, particularly of smes, and competition, it is equally important to govern these changes. the rights of european consumers must be protected by ensuring the security of networks and the protection of personal data, ensuring the high quality of new jobs and defending workers' rights by applying existing rules or adopting new ones, if necessary. i am equally pleased with the work that has been done on the recognition of the value of the sharing economy and the need for clear regulation at european level, the protection of authors of artistic and cultural works and the recognised importance of investment and the development of e-governance and networks.
in writing. ‒ digital innovation brings new opportunities for businesses and users alike. the digital single market strategy is structured in three parts: to improve access of consumers and businesses to digital goods and services across europe, to create a favourable and level playing field for digital networks and innovative services to develop and to maximise the growth potential of the digital economy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, by working together with the commission and the member states, we can achieve a greater use of digital technologies to modernise and improve governance and public administration within the european union. in addition, it is worth bearing in mind that in the future more public and private resources will be needed to strengthen cybersecurity and encryption of online communication, to prevent cyberattacks and to increase knowledge about basic cybersecurity among users of digital services. i hope that through a digital single market legislation, european entrepreneurs and businesses can thrive and be competitive on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european institutions must actively promote the digital revolution in all areas, from infrastructure to legislative harmonisation to the digitalisation of manufacturing and skills. the topics to be discussed are many, but there has been a good deal of collaboration between the two committees and the various political groups, which has given the report a holistic approach. now, through legislative acts, it will also be the task of parliament to define better the criteria for achieving a european digital single market.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted today represents the european parliament's position on the new strategy for the digital single market in europe. i agree with the text and in particular with the calls to end unjustified geoblocking, to remove barriers for small and medium-sized enterprises, to promote the development of digital skills in schools for young people, to encourage e-government and to adopt strategic tools for online platforms that are conducive to innovation. i also hope that the opportunities offered by the sharing economy and the digitalisation of the european economy will be seized, in order to improve consumer access to goods and services and to offer new growth opportunities to businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by which the european parliament sets out its position on the commission's strategy for the creation of the digital single market, presented in may 2015. the development of the digital single market is worth €415 billion a year to the european economy and can create 3.8 million new jobs. this is why europe needs to act to create a true digital single market, harmonising the conditions for competitiveness for businesses, developing innovative skills and removing existing barriers, including in the areas of financial services and taxation. we can no longer afford to play a marginal role in the field of innovation and the development of digital networks and services. today, the challenge is to manage big data, the internet of things and the sharing economy, all of which are key issues in which europe must take a leading role again, in line with its vocation for research and innovation. we must now start from this document to create, in a courageous way, the conditions for harmonious and rapid digital development, creating together the world's largest market for digital products and services and opening up to competition even sectors which are currently closed.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is the first in a long series of legislative initiatives that will follow. although many of our amendments during the itre-imco procedure were watered down by compromises, we voted in favour of the report because it includes some important issues for the movement, such as the widening of citizens' participation in digital life, the reduction of geoblocking and the improvement of the rules for online commercial activity. another point that we have not touched upon and which is important to us is the paragraph calling on the commission to promote a legal and political framework to combat cybercrime and illegal content on the internet, such as hate speech. the measures proposed in this connection include: the creation of an appropriate legal basis to enable europol to carry out its activities to counter illegal content on the internet; special measures to combat the sexual exploitation of children online as well as all measures necessary to make the internet a safe environment for children as well; and working with stakeholders to promote education and awareness campaigns.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market is one of the most promising and challenging areas for progress and creates potential efficiency gains of €260 million per year. it opens up new opportunities to stimulate the economy through e-commerce, while facilitating administrative and financial compliance for businesses and empowering customers through e-government. the market and government services developed in the digital single market are evolving from electronic to mobile platforms, are increasingly present and offer access to information and content at any time, place and from any device. but this development requires a regulatory framework and this report is precisely intended to pave the way for a complex set of legislative initiatives in accordance with the commission's work programme. the major themes covered, such as expanding the participation of european citizens in digital life, investing in infrastructure, reducing geoblocking, improving the rules for online commercial activities, strengthening citizen trust, etc., certainly deserve broad support.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the own-initiative report 'towards a digital single market'. i believe that the digital revolution is both a decisive challenge and an opportunity for europe and i believe that with the report adopted today the european parliament is making clear what the priorities are for european citizens and businesses. this transition, in my view, has the potential to create millions of new jobs and can certainly provide new opportunities for european consumers. we cannot, however, deny the negative impacts that such changes can cause, such as, in particular, the increasing precariousness of work caused, among other things, by a poorly governed sharing economy. i particularly agree with the text adopted today, particularly where it calls on the commission to look carefully at the working conditions for these new and expanding sectors, so as to ensure adequate levels of protection for workers.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market really has the potential to change europe. it has the potential to create thousands of jobs but above all to provide new opportunities for all european consumers and citizens. we also call on the commission to ensure that the conditions of workers in the delivery sector are protected. equally important, it addresses the issue of geoblocking, a virtual border that must be eliminated.
in writing. the report responds to the european commission's communication as part of the wider initiative to create a digital single market, which aims to bring the concept of european citizenship to life, also at a digital level. i think it is particularly important that parliament has decided to plan the future development of the digital single market on the basis of three fundamental concepts, equality, participation and trust, around which the very nature of 'digital citizenship' must be built if we want it to be stable and functional. european citizens will only learn to exploit the potential of the digital single market if they feel adequately protected and if we can ensure that consumers, and in particular buyers, have the same rights as they can claim in the day-to-day life of trade. for these reasons i have spoken in favour. the commission document paves the way for a complex series of subsequent legislative initiatives. i hope that the proposals which the commission will put forward in the coming months will take account of these principles which parliament has so clearly emphasized in its position and which i have worked hard to promote.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, divisions and mistrust continue to mark the intentions and actions of the european states on issues such as migration, security, economic and monetary union. president juncker spoke to us today about a number of crises, saying that some people are quick to criticise brussels rather than looking in the mirror and judging their own government. i ask you, president juncker, was that a reference to the italian government? because in recent days we have learned from the press of his irritation with the italian prime minister, renzi, who apparently would be considered inadequate, an inappropriate interlocutor for brussels. well, for us in the five star movement this is not news. we have been denouncing for some time the inadequacy and lack of credibility of a government which is not even elected by the people and is therefore incapable of representing their needs, both at national and european level. we are surprised that the european commission is only now realising this, but more than the lack of dialogue between you, president juncker, and our prime minister renzi, we should be concerned about the lack of dialogue and sympathy with all those citizens who are tired of being forced to accept policies which they feel are harmful. there is a clear crisis of representation. in the face of these divisions, these doubts, these misunderstandings, in the face of meetings and institutional decisions which are taken behind closed doors, because the european council meetings are held behind closed doors, they are not recorded, nor do we know what the positions of each member state are. so in the face of all this, in defiance of the direct democracy on which the european union should be based, it is difficult to understand what is really happening, how things really are and, above all, which interests are really being protected. so, mr president, i ask you to explain to us more clearly, i ask you to explain to us how things really are. i'd like an answer to that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am confused and very, very concerned because only a few months ago, in this chamber, we were talking about immigration as a great opportunity for europe. now he's shy enough to admit it's a problem. and while you guys keep arguing about the issue, the immigration emergency is bringing us to our knees. one million migrants arrived in europe last year alone, and the flow continues to increase. your foolish decisions have brought europe into chaos. meanwhile, our cities are invaded by thousands of illegal immigrants who take advantage of our hospitality and ignore our laws, steal, deal, rape. the events in cologne are proof that the european union has failed to deal with uncontrolled immigration. do you really want to solve the problem? close the borders! do you really want to help the citizens? use the resources to help them, not the fake refugees! do you really want to stop the violence in our cities? send the illegals back to their countries of origin! it's just a few rules and all the blah blah blah we keep hearing in here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the multiple crises in europe are in danger of being the beginning of a disintegration. we are well aware of this and that is why we want to do everything possible, as president juncker has also told you, that he will do everything possible to reverse the course, to save europe. we care about europe today and its future, and that is why we italians here in parliament and our government want adequate answers. we want, for example, to do what we say about immigration, to go further on flexibility for growth and employment, in short, we want a more united and more progressive europe. we are europeans, we are ambitious, we won the elections on a project of revival, not of questioning europe, of revival, and we simply want to be consistent with these commitments and promises. i must say, however, and i always have to stoop a little to answer weber, that i do not know who is giving him information about italy, but i tell him to change his adviser because he is wrong about us and our government, and i would like to tell him that it would be easy to say that the credibility of europe has been put at risk by those who, like him and his friends, i believe, wanted an ideological hostility that put citizens in difficulty, increased inequalities. we just want jobs and a social agenda.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand those who feel tired of the same repetitions every month, every week and every day. but as long as, despite president tusk's efforts, the member states have not put their decisions into practice, we will have to repeat that they have failed to meet their obligations - not all of them, but a rather impressive number. so it is not unusual for us to repeat the same calls at regular intervals. secondly, i understood from some of the speeches that the commission was not considered to be sufficiently active. i'm following the lines of my calligrapher, and i can't find any such record. i would simply remind you that, following the priorities previously set by the commission, we are focusing on policies that are firmly geared towards growth and jobs, which is why we launched the €315 billion investment plan in november 2014. it has not escaped your attention - or has it? - that 40 billion of the 315 billion in this investment plan has already been mobilised and allocated to 47 major infrastructure projects, 11 of which are in italy, and 7 000 small and mediumsized enterprises. you will also have noticed that the commission has been able to launch the security agenda, the energy agenda, all the actions that necessarily follow from the establishment of the digital market and so on. i do not see how the commission could have been idle during the first year of its mandate. we have been very active, i think. on the few issues that have been raised on the sidelines of the debate, i do not feel that - since someone has invited me to this in a friendly manner - i should resign because we are not able to solve the refugee problem in good conditions. we must not lose heart or be discouraged, but we must now ensure that the actions that have been decided are carried out. i have no further comments to make on the rest, mr president.
president of the european council.– mr president, first of all it is absolutely right that today we have a problem with implementation. when it comes to the migration crisis, i have no doubt that today we are at a very critical moment regarding the implementation of our decisions. but this is perhaps the first time when i feel that this is a critical juncture for the political system in europe. the eu is based on an assumption that all member states are ready to act with goodwill and to respect our common decisions. without this method and this determination, our work has no meaning. you are absolutely right. what is most critical today is that i have no problems reaching compromises at the level of the european council. on the contrary, it is too easy to achieve compromise, but the next day almost no one is ready to respect our common decisions. this is a really critical moment, not only because of the matter of immigration, but for europe as a political organisation. it is truly difficult to discipline member states today. neither i nor the commission receives much thanks. i am sorry to say that if the first principle – that we are ready to respect each other and our decisions – is not respected then we will have a huge problem implementing anything at all. maybe this is because the scale of the challenge is so unprecedented. this is the very brutal truth. neither europe as an organisation nor the member states were sufficiently prepared to face this completely new – in terms of numbers – problem concerning migration. this is true. i cannot agree with mr verhofstadt’s assessment when it comes to our discussion about external borders. i am sorry, but the discussion about the idea of strengthening our external borders is quite fresh. if you remember, as i do, at the beginning of our discussion about the migration crisis, there was a different topical issue, not external borders. i am really satisfied with what the commission has done in strengthening the external borders and on the quite new idea about common external border guards in europe. as you know, some elements of this idea are still controversial for some member states, for many reasons. it is still quite a demanding challenge to explain and to convince them that we need this new and controversial – but absolutely necessary – new measure. what we need today is to solve some problems as quickly as possible. this is why it is my intention to dedicate the february european council meeting to the issue of the uk. i hope it will be our last european council meeting about it. but the february meeting will also be devoted to an assessment of implementation regarding the migration crisis and our action plan with turkey. the next european council in march will also concern the migration crisis. esteban gonzález pons asked about poland. as i said a few days ago at a meeting with the political groups here at parliament, the eu has a right and an obligation to engage in a tough and open dialogue with the authorities of every eu member state where the rule of law and norms of democracy may be violated. but please do not expect me to be happy and full of enthusiasm when the procedure on poland is launched. you must understand that this is something really difficult for me. i know that the commission acted in good faith. i have no doubt in that. we could discuss how some of the commission’s measures, methods and decisions could have been tougher or softer. there was also a discussion within the commission about timing and some procedural nuances, but the commission took the decision. i am absolutely sure that this decision is an optimal one and i fully support it without any doubts. believe me, seeking conflict between institutions, especially in this case, makes no sense. i am absolutely sure that we will continue to cooperate very closely also with regard to poland.
in writing. the council meeting last december was a very complicated one, at the end of a difficult year, at times dramatic and certainly full of contradictions. the council of 17 and 18 december, which was forced to stand still by the profound differences of opinion between the member states, but which was also aware that progress and decision-making are the only way for the european union to survive, showed us once again that the council confronts, argues, debates, highlights and lists problems without ever solving any of them. in 2015, there was a lot of talk about immigration and relocation. the result today is that perhaps less than 1% of migrants are resettled in other european countries. the other items on the agenda have also not seen any concrete conclusion, but only the perpetuation of contradictions. the question of sanctions against russia is one example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the social democrats are certainly on the side of the thousands of poles who have marched in recent weeks for the rule of law and democracy. here, madam prime minister, we appreciate the tone of your speech. we do not want to put your country on trial, nor do we want to try to overturn an outcome that has been democratically achieved in your country. it has every right and duty to govern, with full autonomy of choice, but in compliance with european values, principles and law. poland is one of the pillars of the union by its history and vocation, especially in its struggle against the totalitarianisms of the twentieth century. the polish people are an example for us all. the measures taken by your government, madam prime minister, deny this freedom story. an independent constitutional court and a free media are the preconditions for a state governed by the rule of law. we therefore considered the european commission's decision to be right and timely, and we would like to thank vice-president timmermans in particular. the european union is not a marriage of convenience, nor is it a scapegoat. the union is first and foremost a community of values, freedom and democracy. europe needs a free and strong poland: i would like to ask the commissioner, madam prime minister, to reflect on the measures he has taken in a spirit of dialogue and discussion, as vice-president timmermans said a short while ago. poland is a great country, we will not abandon it, you will not lead it on a path that is not in keeping with its history and its tradition!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the concern of many colleagues. the neo-nationalism of your government, ms. szydlo, the measures that many poles believe limit the powers of the constitutional court and the media: the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the same time, i would like to remind you of this: if poland has voted for a government so critical of the union, it is because the union itself, with its austerity policies, has created in that country very serious inequalities and social resentment that only the right wing has been able to detect. social justice is also a european right. i would also ask that we do not use different criteria in hungary, poland or yesterday in italy. governments should be treated the same way. poland should not pay a higher price just because the ruling party is part of a group less powerful than the people's party.
in writing. the european commission is ready to sanction poland for the new media law that has just been passed. the commission is considering initiating the procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty on european union, which provides for the suspension of the voting rights of a member state in the council in the event of a serious and persistent breach of the values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty. the new polish government has been accused of undermining media freedom and information pluralism, because the new law, among other things, reserves to the ministry of treasury, and no longer to the national broadcasting council (the equivalent of agcom), the power to appoint and dismiss the heads of public broadcasting companies. the situation is similar to the rules approved by the renzi government on the governance of rai, which give unprecedented power to the president of the council, contrary to what was established by the consulta in judgment no 225 of 1974. the european commission is therefore right to try to clarify the situation in poland and to remove any doubts, and it should do the same with regard to italy: the rule of law, freedom of expression and information pluralism are all too important for democracy.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the peace process in colombia (rsp 2015/3033).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to the high representative. well, we can only agree to support the resolution, because as you have already said, it is clear that this is a historic moment, an important moment, but it is also a moment from which a new era begins for colombia. and it is a new era in which we must be very careful, because what concerns me is what will happen tomorrow, because the agreement, the peace process is a good agreement, but it does not take into account many things, such as compensation for the victims, where the money will be taken, or many other points that have remained unresolved, which we have not included in the resolution because clearly as the european parliament we want to give a strong signal, but which, i fear, may be problematic points for the future. so we welcome this new page in history with great happiness, but we know that we have to work hard for the future of colombia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in colombia the darkness at the end of the tunnel is finally a little less dark. there are no perfect peace agreements and processes, nothing can turn back the hands and horrors of history, but ending a conflict that has been going on since the 1960s is already a small miracle. many questions remain unresolved, from the meaning of the phrase 'restrictions on the freedom of a confessor' to the responsibilities of commanders of irregular militias, sanctions for crimes against humanity and drug trafficking, compensation for victims and the participation of the king in political life, not to mention sanctions for sponsors of war criminals. we hope that the talks in havana will clarify this. it is essential, however, that no amnesty be granted for the most serious crimes and that the drug trade be effectively combated, helping the farmers who are often more victims than accomplices. and that it should be part of the full rule of law and full respect for the civil and political rights of every citizen, including by the colombian state. finally, as a union we must also honour our economic aid commitments, we owe it to the future of young colombians and to the hope that the newborn will never know what the word 'war' means.
vice president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, let me start by saying what someone else in this room has said: we are not there yet. it is very encouraging. a major step – i would say a historic step – was taken in december, solving one of the most difficult parts of the negotiations in a difficult, complicated, but i think very constructive and encouraging way. but we are not there yet. that is why i underline – as i did in introducing our debate – that our support does not focus only on the follow-up to the agreement and implementation, but also, in these coming weeks and months, on trying to accompany the negotiations, trying to support them and also trying to support the strong leadership and vision of president santos, who is certainly taking bold and impressive steps in this direction, and also supporting the country – all of it – in this process. regarding the territories, i very much share the reference to the fact that we need to make sure that our support goes all the way down (for me, somehow, it is going up!) to where people live. when it comes to civil society and human rights defenders – i specifically mentioned this in my introductory remarks – this is a role for the european union, and we know that very well, as is encouraging and supporting the country as a whole and its people as a whole. i believe, for instance, that what we have done on the visa waiver was particularly important because it showed not only the support that the european union was giving to the process, and the intention to support implementation of the process, but also that this is part of a bigger picture which is the excellent bilateral relations that the european union has with colombia, and also that this is framed into an even bigger picture which is the strategic relations between the european union and latin america, and in particular with some countries in latin america with which our relations are developing in an extremely positive way, especially in the last year. president santos and i met probably four or five times in the last year and past couple of months. the last time was in december in brussels where we witnessed together the signing of the visa waiver, but we were meeting regularly before that. i would say we were having a meeting every couple of months, every time that we crossed each other around the world, whether in the margins of the cumbre de las americas or in the general assembly, to pass the message to him, but first of all to listen to him about what we could do to better support the process. even the decision to appoint a special envoy and to identify him or her – in this case it is him – in eamon gilmore came out of a conversation with president santos, who believed this would be a positive sign, and a positive experience in negotiating the process given the experience that gilmore has with the northern ireland process, and on working on the follow-up, which might be even more difficult than the process of agreeing on the agreement itself. let me also say that i believe this is – and some of you mentioned this – an example of what the european union’s role can be in the world. it is first of all a sign that our engagement is precious, including in places that we might perceive as being far away from us. our focus in these dramatic times is obviously on our neighbourhood, in our region: south, east, and i would also say north and west. it might be strange to hear this from an italian but i believe that our work on the arctic has to be substantial and consistent because it is probably the new frontier for many things. certainly we have a priority in making sure that our region becomes a little bit safer and more stable than it is now, but our added value is incredibly high, including in places around the world: in asia, in latin america, in africa. not necessarily everywhere, but in specific places where history, politics, sometimes the economy, sometimes people-to-people exchanges and culture mean that the links and ties make our position and our contribution somehow special and valuable for institutions or people. this is one of those cases. this is the global role of the european union. this is our strength. this is the strength of our contribution, somehow, to peace in the world. i know that these are words that sometimes we feel a little bit naive in saying but, at the end of the day, this is our interest: promoting and trying to facilitate peace in the world. but this is also the role of the european union: investing in some models for trying to find a way out of conflicts. some of you said that it is much more difficult to put an end to a conflict than to start a conflict. i could not agree more. that is why it is much more convenient for us to invest in conflict prevention than to try to find a way out of a conflict that has already exploded. but there is a way – i would say a european way – of facilitating dialogue, facilitating cooperation, finding mediation, encouraging compromise also, because this comes from our history too. this will come up in the following debate on the situation in syria and the debate after that on tensions in the middle east. at the end of the day, it is always the same story. european history is a history of conflicts – centuries of conflicts – that we have somehow spread around the world, dragging others into our own conflicts and wars, and which we finally managed to stop at the point when we discovered that regional cooperation and reconciliation within europe was the way out. that brought us peace, stability and prosperity, even if we sometimes tend to forget this today. so it is our european way that can bring hope and in some way good stories around the world. it is also the role of the european union to invest in good stories, making them possible, and, once they do happen, making them sustainable, making them last and making them work, which is not something that we can ever take for granted. let me finish by saying that i really appreciate the unity you are showing in this, in the debate and in the vote you are going to take. let me say that i am completely sure that our friends in colombia are going to notice and appreciate this. these are exactly the kind of signs that also bring an added value to a difficult process, in terms of encouragement and political support, which is precious in these difficult times. some of you mentioned pope francis. let me conclude by quoting him on something that is also somehow a european way of seeing things. pope francis said that the night of violence can turn into a day with no sunset, a day of concord and justice so that there can be lasting peace. please, we cannot afford another failure on the path to peace and reconciliation. this is the spirit, i think, in which we engage, we continue to engage, with our colombian friends, knowing that the way ahead is still difficult and we should not take it for granted, but knowing that it is possible. i am also convinced that 2016 can be the year when this conflict finally comes to an end and colombia can find its peace.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 20 january, at 12.30 p.m.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2015/2517 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs.– mr president, in syria we are facing the biggest humanitarian tragedy in our region since the second world war. six and a half million syrians are internally displaced, and if the fighting continues these could be the refugees of tomorrow. around 400 000 syrians have no access to humanitarian aid, especially in areas that are besieged. we now have 4.6 million syrian refugees in the neighbouring countries, with chances being high that this number will continue to grow due to intense fighting on the ground. starvation inside syria is used as a means of warfare against the weakest and most vulnerable people on the ground, in particular against women and children. the syrian government has now guaranteed humanitarian access in madaya, but this is far from being enough. in other ongoing sieges, people have been trapped for months, unable to exit, with no access to food, no access to medication and no access to basic services. several local ceasefires reached in recent months are a reason for hope, for example in the waer neighbourhood of homs, but still they stopped far short. the goal of a nationwide ceasefire between the government and the opposition is an urgent one. the bombings and targeting of civilian areas and structures such as hospitals and schools, in particular by the syrian regime and its allies, are unacceptable. this is why it is crucial that, in parallel with the efforts to start a political process, we call for all parties to cease all attacks and bombing of civilian targets, to put an end to the sieges of civilian areas and to fully respect international humanitarian law. it would be a disaster if, as we manage hopefully to start the political process, the situation on the ground does not improve; the credibility of the whole process would suffer enormously. some progress was made in the fight against da’esh in iraq, but less so in syria. let me say very clearly that the terrorist group cannot and will most probably not be fully defeated if the civil war in syria continues. daesh bases its own survival and its propaganda on sectarian strife and chaos in syria and in iraq, and only a united syria – only a syria that puts an end to its own civil war and finds ways to reconciliation – will defeat daesh once and for all. in these weeks and days, this is somehow a real condition to not only fight, but also to defeat, daesh. we have worked hard to build such a united front outside syria and inside syria, with the european union playing a crucial role first and foremost for humanitarian reasons, but also because we know very well that ending the war in syria concerns our own security because it is clearly the condition to better fight against daesh, and it is in our own interests. the consensus we reached in the international syria support group – first in vienna with two rounds of difficult but successful talks, and then in new york in december – led to the unanimous adoption of un security council resolution 2254 last december. finally, we managed to unite the international community around a roadmap, endorsing the talks in vienna, their format and their content, and showing the syrians and the regional actors that there is unity on the international side to indicate the way forward. the resolution calls for intra-syrian talks between the government and the opposition. preparations are underway and the talks are foreseen to start in geneva next week. the resolution sets up a schedule of six months for the establishment of inclusive and credible governance in syria and a target of 18 months for free and fair elections based on a new syrian constitution with the clarification of the fact that wherever the election takes place it will have to see the syrians outside syria taking part in it too. in parallel with the political process, the resolution also calls for the development of confidence-building measures between parties in conflict and for a mechanism of implementation and the monitoring of ceasefire. this is clearly a very ambitious calendar, a very ambitious agenda, but it is clear that we cannot afford to waste time and we have to set high objectives in order to have some hope that the process starts. as peace gets closer – as the possibility of starting this process gets real – we see that the resistance from the enemies of peace is getting even stronger. i believe we should consider the current phase as a window of opportunity that was not there in the past years. let me say that this window might not be open forever if we miss this chance, and let me add that i believe that we finally managed to bring all the different regional actors around the same table on the syrian conflict partly because we managed last july to find an agreement on the iranian deal, opening the way for the possibility – although not yet the reality – of a different kind of cooperation in the region. we will discuss that in the next debate. the conditions are there again, but the way forward will be bumpy, difficult and challenging for all. the un special envoy for syria, staffan de mistura, has our full and united support. we have put this issue on the agenda of all the last foreign affairs council meetings – the last one took place just yesterday – and we discussed at length on how, united, we can support the process and the work of staffan de mistura. i am in constant contact with him; i met him just a few days ago in brussels to discuss exactly the preparation of the talks, the way ahead, and how the european union as such, together with the member states, in a coordinated way, can further contribute to the implementation of the un security council resolution. yesterday, the foreign affairs ministers discussed syria and our further work on the implementation of this resolution. the european union and the member states will provide support to the intra-syrian talks and the entire transition process in terms of mediation, expertise and consensus—building. we will support the ceasefires, and once the ceasefires are in place – whether local ceasefires or a national ceasefire – we are preparing to step up our aid to the syrian people. this also includes local governance needs, rehabilitation and reconstruction of the country, because it is key that, as we are trying to do in iraq, liberated areas or areas in times of ceasefire or peace are immediately supported with humanitarian aid wherever the access of humanitarian aid is possible. as you know, the european union is the biggest donor to the management of the syrian crisis, with almost eur 5 billion that we have mobilised so far. the ministers also agreed yesterday on a european union common approach and preparation towards the upcoming syria-london conference that will be hosted in london by the uk and co-hosted by germany, norway and kuwait on 4 february. we have already prepared substantial support to turkey. we are putting together further additional comprehensive support packages for jordan and lebanon, not only to support them in their remarkable work in protecting and hosting refugees, but also to strengthen the resilience of the two countries, which has been tested in different ways in each country, and it is a top priority for the european union to invest in the resilience of these two countries in order to prevent them from facing major security, social, economic or political problems that could turn the crisis in syria into something even bigger. in addition, we need to be ready for the fast deployment of humanitarian and civilisation aid once the conditions change inside syria to make sure that, if and when we get to the point of something close to peace, the country can be rebuilt in all forms. later in the evening, we will discuss the current tensions between saudi arabia and iran. let me just reiterate that i had lengthy discussions with the foreign ministers of both countries to convey the message that it is vital that the syrian talks are protected and that there is no serious spillover of these bilateral tensions over this multilateral process that has finally, and in a difficult way, started. it is also vital that together as europeans, in a coordinated way, and together with our partners, starting with the united states but also others, we pass on the same message to all the interlocutors in the region. all those with influence over the warring parties inside syria should help them walk the difficult path towards peace. confidence-building measures in particular have to be implemented immediately to create a favourable environment for the talks, and to guarantee that the process is credible and delivers to the syrian people immediately. this is a critical phase for the political process. what we agreed on in vienna and new york with regional and international actors has to become reality on the ground, otherwise it will not fly. only the syrian parties and people can make this happen with the help of the international community, which, as i see, is ready to do that. last week i met with riad hijab, the coordinator of the syrian opposition’s high negotiations committee, and i confirmed the eu’s readiness to support these talks and to provide capacity-building during negotiations and afterwards and during the political transition when it starts. we also support the work of the un envoy for inclusive representation in the talks and accompany him in the difficult task of arranging the way in which the talks can be organised. only a comprehensive representation of syrian groups will help us to reach the much needed consensus for the way ahead. let me also say something that is not normally mentioned: the role of syrian society in managing the way out of this conflict. i believe the civil society inside syria will play a major role in the implementation and monitoring of confidence-building measures, for example local ceasefires, and so the civil society in its different parts and ways needs to be brought into the discussion as early as possible, and all minorities and religious groups should have a say. excluding this or that group on sectarian or ethnic grounds would be a non-starter. inclusiveness is the only way forward towards national reconciliation and will be the most powerful and the most effective way to defeat daesh: we have seen this in the past in iraq. we have to try to avoid the mistakes that were made in previous years. the work to build a democratic, non-sectarian, inclusive syria has only just begun, but we are finally heading in the right direction. peace in syria is possible, and we have shown in the last year that some incredible things and positive things are indeed possible. the transition can start and daesh can be defeated. the international and regional players have finally united after five years, five long years of work to make it possible, and it is now time for the syrians to take this opportunity to start the transition, to stop the war, and to stop daesh, and they will need to know – as we have been telling them all – that we will be at their side, continuing to work for the unity of the international community and the region to make this process possible. i have just received news that relates to the previous discussion: if i may give the good news to plenary, mr president, the colombian government and farc have just announced a havana agreement on a bilateral ceasefire and a mechanism to implement it. we have just received a call from our ambassador in bogotá, so do this more often!
mr vice-president, we will now open the debate to your statements on the situation in syria. let us first hear the assessments of the political groups.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the intra-syrian talks scheduled for 25 january, i would like to know whether the high commissioner also thinks that the meeting itself might in fact be postponed because of the lack of agreement. de mistura himself admitted that he does not know exactly which opposition entities will have to participate in the dialogues, so i think we are still quite far away. of course, ambitious goals, but we also need to know how to achieve them. i believe that we must also speak the truth about those responsible for the humanitarian situation, not only denounce it, but also denounce the role, for example, of the fundamentalist wing of the syrian opposition, turkey, you never talk to us about the role of turkey, and yet it seems to me that it would be interesting to know the position of the european union on the clandestine trade in syrian and iraqi oil from isis to turkey through syrian territory, whether the russian films are true or not. we europeans must know the situation in this area through the communications we receive from moscow. and then, fighting daesh and concluding: but the fight against daesh is being done by russia, the russian bombing. that's the truth. there's no other things. that's the truth!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the debate tonight, what we can add is to urge you - in addition to the important work you are doing on the whole local scene - to concentrate, i think, all your efforts to make it credible that the decisions taken at the un in december, through resolution 2254, the roadmap that has been defined as the timetable, are really concrete measures in the coming weeks and days. then hand over this letter of confidence from the whole of parliament. to work so that this opportunity that has opened up can be really taken and won knowing that there are many obstacles along the way. there is a humanitarian tragedy going on. i insist, as i said last time we met in this house, that there is above all the tragedy of a generation of syrian boys and girls, especially children, on whom we should concentrate an effort, a real educational marshall plan. and then there's the escalating violence, the difficulty of achieving a ceasefire. i think there are two essential conditions: i must overcome and work to overcome the misgivings that exist between the various groups that make up the anti-daesh faction and then, i think, most importantly, spread the positive climate that the iran deal has thrown ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after so much ambiguity on the part of many of the powers involved, 400 000 dead, 6.5 million refugees, the negotiating table that so many of us had hoped for has finally been set up. there is much to be said about the requirements of the selected interlocutors: it is regrettable that several of the organizations included in the list by the saudis are ambiguous as to extremism and jihadism. but the real question is: do the major regional actors really want this peace? if i were to judge the recent tension fueled by saudi anger after the execution of nimr al-nimr, i would say no. perhaps some priorities on the political agenda are more important, we will talk about that later. and let's not even talk about the turkish position. the real political knot we need to solve is assad's future, which is far from solved. and on this subject many, russia, iran, the usa, continue to take time. it is undeniable, however, that the moment is right for this potential cooperation, and so i ask myself: what is the priority action we must take? we need to cut off daesh's weapons and money. the legislation in qatar and kuwait is still insufficient to guarantee this objective, the funding keeps coming in. today, refineries and wells are still operating in syria and iraq, and trade is not interrupted. if we want to defeat them, this is the way to go, even if it means making hard choices.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the interlocutors are the same, but some interlocutors are more equal than others, especially if they have the largest oil reserves in the world and billions of dollars to invest. this orwell paraphrase well describes the tolerance of the whole west in the face of violations of human rights and civil and political rights and freedoms, in the face of extremist preaching and the role in the bloody proxy wars that are inflaming the middle east. all in near silence. and now these 47 death sentences, which have led to an unprecedented escalation, how to interpret them? an attempt to show muscle to solidify support around house saud? will he raise the price of oil in total collapse because of the return of trade in iranian production? or to force allies to take sides, influencing the american election campaign and pushing the various candidates to repudiate obama's openness to nuclear agreements? these are still unanswered questions, but the only certainty is that it is increasingly imperative for us to demand from our allies total intransigence in the fight against terrorism, against the funders of terrorism and its preachers; consistency with our principles and values, in particular against the death penalty; and also demand that member states stop the flow of arms that arabia was the world's top importer of in 2014, otherwise the blood of the victims in yemen and elsewhere will also be on the stars of our flag.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear agreement has certainly changed the landscape in the middle east. the hostility and the closure of the americans towards iran and their alliance with the saudis have been the founding elements of the middle east policy for years. even if an open war between iran and arabia is ruled out, it is certain that in this region, in addition to the unresolved israeli-palestinian issue, the rivalry between iran and arabia and the divisions between shiites and sunnis will be increasingly decisive. the european union has played a key role in the negotiations on the iranian nuclear issue with the high representative federica mogherini, whom we thank once again. this agreement, which is one of the few signs of hope at present, should be only the first step towards a wider dialogue with iran, including regional issues such as relations with syria, yemen, lebanon, iraq and afghanistan, which the latest saudi action seeks to call into question. europe, which is engaged in a stabilization effort in the region to prevent terrorism and the tragedy of immigration caused by war, must prevent provocations from any side from jeopardizing the arduous search for peace in syria. we must reiterate our strong opposition to the use of the death penalty in all circumstances. all this requires more european union, more union and more europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the high representative for speaking to this house on the current state of relations between saudi arabia and iran. we are particularly concerned, also in the light of the debate which has just ended, about the possible postponement of the peace conference on syria, especially in the light of the awareness that the hope for peace lies in dialogue between all the actors involved, a dialogue which obviously cannot be without cooperation between the two regional powers deeply involved in the events in syria. secondly, there must be no risk that the escalation of diplomatic tensions between the two states will overshadow the great achievement of the iran nuclear agreement. finally, we are pleased that you have stressed the issue of human rights and the continuing effort to abolish the death penalty, because these are not secondary or partial issues, but must be a consistent part of our action towards all partners, in whatever circumstances they are put at risk.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank ms griesbeck and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work and dedication on this file, which made a swift agreement on this directive possible. this text is not merely a statement of principle. our objective was to make the presumption of innocence effective in all the member states. this directive will strengthen the right to a fair trial and protect the rights of suspects and accused persons in the european union. today great disparities in the protection of the presumption of innocence exist in europe, as evidenced by the recent and still-too-frequent condemnations of member states by the european court of human rights. the compromise text on which you will vote tomorrow is carefully balanced. it is based on the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights. the directive prohibits public references to guilt, and it contains clear rules on the burden of proof. the burden of proof is on the prosecution, and any doubt is to benefit the suspect or accused person. the right to remain silent and the right not to incriminate oneself are protected. the directive will also harmonise the right to be present at the trial, which is an important aspect of the right to a fair trial. the commission would like to add two declarations to this compromise. the first is a clarification of our understanding of the text concerning the right to remain silent and the right not to incriminate oneself. the second is our position on the question of the burden of proof. the commission regrets the deletion of a paragraph on its initial proposal on presumptions of fact or law. our concern was that, as such presumptions already exist in member states, it is important to have them regulated in the text of the directive so that all the safeguards for defendants are precisely set out. this being said, the overall compromise is highly satisfactory. the standards set in this directive will become eu law and will be enforced as such. the commission will closely follow the transposition and the implementation of this directive in member states and will ensure that it is correctly applied in practice. commission’s statements (written text) 1. relating to article 6 on the burden of proof "the commission regrets the deletion of article 5, paragraph 2, of its proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the commission considers that the compromise in relation to article 6 may lead to problems in the implementation of this directive, in terms of legal certainty, monitoring and operability, which may increase the risk of unnecessary litigation, in particular at national level. however, the commission does not stand in the way of the adoption of this directive ". 2. relating to article 7, paragraph 6, on the right to remain silent and the right not to incriminate oneself "the commission considers that article 7, paragraph 6, of the directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at the trial in criminal proceedings must be interpreted as merely confirming the possibility for member states to decide that, with regard to minor offences, the conduct of the proceedings, or certain stages thereof, may take place in writing or without questioning of the suspect or accused person by the competent authorities. in contrast, this provision does not allow derogating from the rights enshrined in article 7, and it may notably not be interpreted as obliging a suspect to make any statements in relation to the facts at issue or allowing a member state to draw negative consequences from the exercise of the suspects' right to remain silent.
the question posed by the blue card. i listened very carefully to my colleague's contribution and i have a question. is it not because we have a european arrest warrant, which allows us to extradite european citizens to other european countries, that we need to have a minimum standard of criminal procedural law? at least that is what experts in criminal procedure in the czech republic argue. we extradite citizens to other countries in europe, we need to have similar criminal law procedures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the member who preceded me said that 'in france there is already a presumption of innocence', and in italy there are laws where the favor rei is enshrined, but it is constantly violated. that is the importance of this directive. i would like to touch on this point, which is very important: the balance of rights between the defence and the prosecution. very often in italy, i speak for example about women, i give this example, we wore this shirt today for the women of cologne who were harassed and raped, very often the victim has less defense than the rapist, the gang. and this is a very serious thing. i hope that this directive will be applied as a minimum standard, but we hope that it will be increasingly applied in all the european member states of the european union, so as to give what is also said in the directive, confidence in the judicial systems. it is clear that it is aimed primarily and exclusively at criminal offences and is very important, especially (not a minute and a half, mr president) as regards the dissemination, also of news, it is the most important thing, and i hope that this can be understood by the magistrates and the press. as far as the defendant, the accused, the suspect, the interrogated person is concerned, don't immediately pass yourself off as already guilty at all stages of the process. this is a very important thing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also want to thank mr griesbeck for the excellent work he has done. the presumption of innocence is indeed a basic principle of the rule of law, but the absence of a common framework of guarantees has allowed for its violation and has hindered trust between states, especially in sensitive but crucial areas. i am thinking, for example, of mutual recognition of certain preventive confiscation measures, which are essential in the fight against organised crime. this directive aims to fill this gap. the libe committee had strengthened the commission's proposal and i am glad that the final text preserves many of the advances to which i myself had tried to contribute through some amendments. even on some particularly sensitive issues, such as the burden of proof, the conditions for the use of coercive powers, the possibility of taking into account the conduct of the accused for the purposes of the judgment, balanced solutions were also reached on these issues. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
in writing. judicial cooperation in criminal matters needs a common basis for the safeguarding of fundamental rights and it is therefore very important that the measures forming part of the package on european procedural rights are adopted swiftly. they are a sign of the level of agreement reached by the member states on this matter and should aim to increase the guarantees. the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at criminal proceedings are among the cornerstones of a fair trial, as demonstrated by the fact that they are enshrined in the european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before it.
in writing. the european union's commitment to procedural guarantees for defendants is particularly important with regard to the presumption of innocence. the commission has sent parliament a proposal which is not very ambitious, and we have undertaken to improve it, first by removing the unacceptable clause which allowed the burden of proof to be reversed, but which must always be on the prosecution, along with the affirmation of the principle of 'in dubio pro reo'. we have also strengthened the wording of the right not to incriminate oneself, to refuse to cooperate and to remain silent, also stipulating that the exercise of this right cannot be used against suspects or accused persons. the presumption of innocence must, moreover, be valid at all stages of the proceedings until their final conclusion. this requires particular caution from the public authorities, who, while leaving the prerogatives of the public prosecution and freedom of information unimpaired, must always avoid presenting the accused as guilty before the final judgment. in the context of the desirable approximation of criminal procedure legislation, this directive, although it does not yet achieve the maximum of the guarantees already guaranteed by some member states, by the charter of fundamental rights and by the echr, which in any case remain unaffected, is certainly a positive and acceptable result. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on the report on personal protective equipment, i would like to remind you that the opinion was unanimously approved by the committee on employment and that many points were made, because we in the committee on employment consider the subject of workers' safety to be extremely important. we have indicated that the tools are given to those who use them, that account is taken of the different conformity, the different conformations of the users, adequate information, a language that is sufficiently understandable to those who use these tools. we regret that the involvement of the committee on employment in the report was minimal and that the important information, especially on the information to be given to the users of these instruments, was extremely risky. we reserve the right to verify the exact conditions of the report and, if necessary, to give our consent to the report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the completion of the single market is a political objective of the utmost importance, which we must pursue with all our efforts, and we have been working towards it for years. the strengthening of the harmonization of national legislation in the various sectors remains a fundamental step, which not only unifies and simplifies the regulatory framework for market operators, but also ensures higher levels of consumer protection and, moreover, improves the lives of our citizens, which is also our objective. as rapporteur of the report on the strategy for the single market in goods and services, on which we have shared many observations together, we are taking this approach forward, stressing the need to actually remove the concrete obstacles that arise in the harmonization of the system. we often talk about economic union, but in reality there is no such thing as a 360-degree union, and so one of the objectives we are setting ourselves is to harmonize the system more and more and to remove these obstacles. the three reports which i congratulate the rapporteurs on and which we shall adopt tomorrow are in this direction: the commission's proposal is to make harmonization more effective by moving from directives to regulations. that is the real step forward, and i think that is what we as parliament and as commission will have to use more and more, so that the regulation is adopted as soon as possible, extremely quickly in the individual member states. that is the true meaning of europe and also of the role of the european parliament. these are areas which, as we have seen in the three reports, are different but also very significant from an economic point of view. the hope is therefore that by improving the rules, the positive effects can also be seen on the employment and economic front, which is what we are concerned about today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we are today discussing a subject which is extremely important, which can touch on all subjects and not just those which are the subject of these documents, because obviously the harmonization of legislation at european level is an extremely important factor. it would be appropriate to imagine a europe where the rules are obviously the same for everyone and all european citizens are equal before the rules, because that would help - i believe - to have a more comprehensive vision of europe and perhaps one which would better represent all european citizens. today, in particular, when we are voting and debating in this plenary session the harmonization of the rules on cableway installations, and therefore on everything that concerns the installation of mountain resorts in our europe, i believe that we are taking a great step forward in protecting all our resorts, because it is obvious to anyone with a certain type of expertise in the field, as at distances, often very limited to kilometres, so at a distance of one kilometre in general, two ski resorts, perhaps one in france and one in italy, have regulations that are completely different and that also put them in a situation of unfair competition with each other. i believe that we are making a major step forward today and that topics such as these, namely the harmonization of european legislation, should in some way touch all sectors of our economic society.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is mr weber's opportunity to speak to us about a subject he did not address this morning, but which he always addresses: the question of the future of europe. you haven't spoken badly about italy, the government and the democratic party and president renzi, so if i give you a minute more to deal with this chapter, which you always deal with. if not, mr weber, you could talk to us instead about nord stream, which you never say, about nord stream and the double standards you and your country have, those who make war on russia by day and make deals with us by night.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, in the next six months your presidency will be faced with a decisive turning point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our group, the socialist-democratic group, wants to help you. it wants to help it on the road to recovery and to support economic recovery, as president juncker said, it is not enough to strengthen the internal market, we need a change of pace in economic and social policy and we expect the member states to commit themselves to strengthening the investment plan. we must also immediately set the conditions for a fiscal capacity of the union. we must put the member states in a position to invest. that is why we always insist on the concept of flexibility. it is not a musical refrain, it is a real opportunity to invest, to create an economy, to create new jobs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include refugees. the banking union must be continued and the european deposit guarantee approved. we expect a change in taxation which will support the commission's efforts. we cannot be obsessed with the dogma of public budgetary discipline and then allow multinational companies to take hundreds of billions of euros from the public purse. the tax must be paid where the profits are made and that is why we ask the dutch presidency to support the proposals set out in the ferreira-theurer report. first of all, we want rapid approval of public country-by-country reporting and on social europe and environmental sustainability. we need to take a look at this too, social dumping is a disaster. our group wants your presidency to be remembered for its decisive contribution to the adoption of a good labour mobility package. we look forward to the commission's presentation of this package in the coming weeks and, above all, to the revision of the posting of workers directive. we are reminded by president juncker that this is a sensitive issue. this is a red line and is part of the pact on which we voted for the european commission. on the refugee crisis, solutions are on the table and have been put forward by the european commission, i need not remind you, president juncker has just reminded you. we must overcome the deadlock created by some member states and i want to say to you, i want to say to tusk, that it takes hours, not days, not weeks, to convince the rebellious and reluctant states, because then comes spring and the situation will become even more difficult. the signals coming from some member states are not encouraging at all on schengen either. i hear about mini schengen. i see member states reintroducing border controls. these are wrong choices, ineffective choices and even harmful, as mr juncker said, to the european economy. europe, i conclude, must not close in on itself. i call for the opening of a humanitarian corridor in the next few hours to save the syrian towns, which are being squeezed by the cold and hunger. we must look beyond our own borders and on many issues such as conflict minerals europe can show that it is a great force for change. mr. prime minister, good luck and good work. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, you are not paying much attention to the work of parliament, because our group has also made its views clear on ttip. we do not vote anything in a closed box. we have conditions and one of the basic conditions is the revision of the arbitration system. if there are different conditions we will consider voting in favour, otherwise we will vote against.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dutch government has indicated three principles underlying its action over the next six months: focus on the essentials, innovative growth and jobs, connecting institutions and citizens. now a europe which is able to focus on the essentials is a europe which is able to govern the fundamental variable of political action: the weather. yes, time, the one that requires us to act quickly to stop climate change. europe faces the challenge of two major reforms. one for a circular economy and one for reducing co2 emissions. the circular economy can become a real engine for the change of the european economic model, but it must be adequately supported to express this strength and put in balance with all economic and social actors, in particular european smes, which will have to adapt to this transformation. time, which is too often lacking to save the lives of the many desperate people trying to reach our shores. the european union must therefore rapidly establish a european border guard and a strategy to implement the relocation mechanism. time to prevent two generations, those over 50 and the young, from being permanently excluded from the labour market. we call for innovative growth, driven by the strategy for a digital single market, but also for participatory growth that puts citizens' income at the centre. it is clear that your presidency is facing a difficult time. you will have to make good use of the instruments of a good european presidency, namely: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european agency for the development of vocational training. but it will be necessary to act in the interests of all the citizens of the union, not just those who belong to this or that latitude. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the euro. but there is no sign of the unblocking of these dossiers in the programme of the dutch presidency, which is instead looking at the question of wto recognition for china. it is no longer the time to de-emphasize europe's priorities by country. what is needed today is unity of purpose in a europe which is increasingly divided between economic and political blocs with different purposes. the semester evaluation at your guidance will be done on that, good job.
the blue card is for asking questions to the members who have spoken, not for asking the question to the president of the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the netherlands, i begin by apologizing to you. i am sorry that you are here today with your government and your members this semester and you see a spectacle of this kind. there is europe telling it what to do, and here we are in the 50's. i mean, this is europe worrying about the next dutch semester. and that's one thing that doesn't work. i have seen women wearing lipstick, looking at their mobile phones, thinking of their own business, drinking coffee from outside, but not caring about the real problems of europe. then i would advise you to do this: in italy there's a film called "quo vado", which has set a box office record, made by a man called checco zalone, and his real name is luca medici, and by the director nunziante, who talks about the flaws of the italian reforms in a humorous way, but who has made it clear exactly how italy works. you do it, i invite zalone to do the same thing about europe and you watch this film, because you will understand how many times all politicians talk, the rulers talk, but then do exactly the opposite of what they say and people are not stupid. i am the mayor of a small italian town, but ordinary people - not here who seem to be on mars, but here who seem to be on mars - ordinary people want concrete solutions. it's like those construction sites on the highway where it says, "we work for you", and you come to the highway, there's miles of queues, and there's either no one at the construction site or there's two people turning two buckets. this is europe today. as in the case of illegal immigrants, but can you say months ago "we will remove tens of thousands of illegal immigrants" and after months we have removed 200 illegal immigrants? but is this the europe that works? this is europe that does not work! this is a europe of failures! so i hope you can use your magic wand to solve some problems.
i must warn all colleagues that from now on it is no longer possible to accept the blue cards because we are 20 minutes late and there are so many speakers scheduled.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that the first priority of the dutch presidency is migration and international security. after paris, after cologne, after the daily bulletin, it is certainly the top priority. you, president rutte, said that we need to reduce the number of refugees in the next two months, that the current numbers are unsustainable. i share. the real problem is the external borders. so we must work quickly with the coast and border guard, we must make the hotspots work and we must make the conditions of refugees in the first countries of reception livable. commissioner kristalina georgieva said the same thing recently. if in the refugee camps, 70 percent of the children who have escaped the syrian massacre are not in school, if we deprive the youngest of the hope of a normal life, families move. but you see, mr president, you will have to explain to certain governments and also to certain political parties the difference between these refugees, these families and the illegal, pardon me, economic migrants, as the politically correct would like. because you see the confusion is precisely between this, between refugees and illegal immigrants, which is why among migrants we have in some countries 75% of male presence, in others we get to 85, in some cases 90% of men. this is a problem that we have been putting under the carpet and that has exploded in cologne. we are facing enormous problems and we are facing them, as you said, in the midst of the most dramatic economic crisis since the war. but we must solve this situation, otherwise we will not solve the problems of the economic crisis either, because this situation is shaking schengen and with schengen the single market. it's a very high price. i'll close with a regret: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for the work he has done. i wish you a good job and that your pragmatism guides you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to wish the dutch presidency well, and i hope that it will be able to build up that common point of interest, the common european point of interest on the major issues, starting with migration, and that it will also be able to ask the council to be a serious institution, that is to say, an institution which does what it has decided to do in front of the eyes of the citizens in its conclusions, because the credibility of europe is at stake. we are calling for a fight against the dismantling of schengen, because that is the beginning of other dismantling, of the destruction of other milestones of the european union, as president juncker reminded us this morning. we also ask you, mr president, to pay particular attention to certain items in your programme. i shall start with the innovation aspect, which is also linked to the research plan. we all know in this house, from the great battles we have fought, that our multiannual budget has made few qualifying choices. one of these is horizon. we've invested a lot of resources there because it's good for science, it's good for social challenges, it's good for industry, it's good for competitiveness and economic recovery. you have to do, say, halfway through this horizon plan an evaluation, a simplification, but also, i think, a great concentration of objectives. let us not lose one of the few qualifying choices of this european budget and let us make the most of it. we have confidence in the work of the presidency and we will support it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, the union's top priority, along with the refugee crisis, is to boost growth and employment. as president juncker has said, the economic recovery is under way but it is still insufficient. i find the commitment to pursue the project of capital market union and the completion of the banking union, starting with the european deposit guarantee scheme, to be very appreciated in the programme of the dutch presidency. the capital market union and banking union are essential for growth and stability and it is good to remember that risk sharing through the capital and credit markets is itself a tool for risk reduction. further steps, if reasoned and balanced, towards risk reduction can be considered but anticipating solutions before and outside the international basel framework would be unacceptable and counterproductive. finally, it should be noted that the union needs to strengthen its domestic demand, especially in the face of the crisis in emerging markets. fiscal consolidation must be sustainable and not undermine recovery, and countries with more fiscal space must use it. and the more they use it, the more credible they will be in asking others to follow the rules.
president of the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i've been allowed to speak in this house three times this week. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary decisions.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i would like to thank everyone very much. there have been so many questions that i feel awful for the fact that i can only try in 10 minutes to answer a couple of them, but i can assure you that i made many notes. we will study them carefully, so nothing will be lost. everything will be studied. not everything will be taken on board – that will be difficult – but there have been many insights which we will make full use of in making a success of our presidency. first of all, thanks to the president of the commission for his words of encouragement and support. i think one of the issues he highlighted is the question of schengen and how we proceed with it. there were also questions from mr lamberts, from mr de grandes pascual, from ms toia and others on this, and this all has to do with the question of how we deal with the refugee crisis in the coming weeks. i think we have to do two things at the same time. we have to make a success of the package, the proposals the commission put forward on border control, on a voluntary settlement scheme and some of the other proposals, to bring them forward as soon as possible. it will not happen in the next six to eight weeks; we will need more time to do that, whilst at the same time for the next six to eight weeks we have to make sure that we get the current influx of refugees under control. how should we do this? there were many questions from ms de lange, ms sippel, ms gardini, mr rangel, ms šuica and many others – mr zimmer, mr verhofstadt. it is my intention to work, with the commission and with my colleagues on the council, very closely with turkey to make a success of the turkey-eu agreement. it needs to be seen to deliver in terms of lowering the numbers very considerably in the next six to eight weeks, while at the same time we have to make a success out of the relocation scheme which has been agreed, yes, i know by qmv, at the october joint council. this is what we have to do in the next six to eight weeks, at the same time working on the more fundamental questions of border control, and the more fundamental questions of resettlement, of voluntary settlement, in the future. but we have to make a clear distinction. i believe that everybody wants to keep schengen on board. here i would say in reaction to jean-claude juncker and others mentioning this issue that, in my view, what is now happening in denmark, sweden and other countries is not about closing schengen or making sure that schengen is no longer valid. i think what these countries are doing is trying to deal with the crisis at the moment. it is all temporary. it is not a full closure of these borders, and we have to make sure that we do deliver in the next six to eight weeks so that it does not come to a situation where we have to do more. i want to thank mr weber for his very kind words, for ‘unterstützung’ (support). indeed ‘glaubwürdigkeit’ (credibility) is a key word for the next six months and even beyond. implementierung und migration – das sind ja die wichtigen wörter für die nächsten sechs monate – und auch sicherheit und wirtschaft. and yes, we will work on the free trade agreement with canada. we will try to push forward the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, and i do believe, along with mr weber, that we need this, and also the ukraine agreement. we need the ukraine agreement because it is, on the one hand, a free trade agreement, but it also has to do with stability on the borders of the european union. it is not about pre-accession. that is why i, in the dutch referendum, will make a clear plea, together with my colleagues, in support of this agreement with ukraine. i want to thank mr pittella for his very kind words of support. i do agree that in the whole area of the labour mobility package and the posting of workers directive there is a lot we need to do in the next couple of months, and we will try to push this together with the commission. i think the deeper and fairer market in the european union will go hand in hand. this is also to ms steinruck and so many others who made a point on this. mr pittella also asked me about the situation concerning the humanitarian corridor for syrian refugees, and i can assure him that the dutch presidency is continuing the work of previous presidencies to pursue and further implement the common solutions europe needs to solve this crisis, and the facilities for the syrian refugees we need to work on in the region. i believe that is the best humanitarian corridor we can think of. i also want to thank mr kamall of the ecr group for his kind words of support. i agree with him: it is about quality of legislation, not quantity of legislation, and with him and others we will work on the digital single market, the capital markets and the energy union. i would like to thank mr verhofstadt of the alde group for his kind words of support for the next six months. there is a lot to be done. of course, on refugees, i am not sure whether a special summit will be the solution but it will certainly be discussed, no doubt at a level of the european council. i would also like to thank ms zimmer for her kind words of support. i think she challenged me about this question of whether the european union is a union of nation states or something else. here, i would say that as a union it is clear that we pool sovereignty. that is a clear given, to address the common challenges that europe faces – the economy, climate, energy, migration and, at the same time, security. but we are more than just an intergovernmental organisation. europe consists of nation states. they are the foundation of the eu and they are, therefore, i believe, the master of the treaties, but thank you so much for that challenge and this is indeed an important question. your question on the referendum of ukraine and the netherlands i have already answered. i very much agreed with mr borrelli on the question of the circular economy. mr lamberts and many others asked questions on the issue of tax avoidance and how we will deal with that during the dutch presidency. there were also questions from mr lamassoure, mr niedermayer, mr kofod and of course mr pittella. i can assure you that, during our presidency, the netherlands wants to play an active role in the fight against tax avoidance by multinationals. it is a focal point for the netherlands to reach an international agreement on increasing transparency and improving convergence between national tax systems. as we all know, the commission is expected to present its anti-tax avoidance package, including a directive with measures against tax avoidance, later this month. mr pittella referred to the ferreira—theurer report. it contains far-reaching and interesting suggestions and recommendations. i think at this stage i would prefer to wait for the tax avoidance package which the commission intends to present, and then the council will take a position. and, to respond to the point of mr lamassoure, we will try to do this as soon as possible – i am not sure it is possible by june – but indeed as soon as possible to take a view on this very important matter. mevrouw de lange, u vroeg mij om vooral te voorkomen dat ik met voetbalmetaforen kom de komende tijd. ik zal dat doen. het is al pijnlijk genoeg dat nederland dadelijk gaat juichen voor de rode duivels. althans, dat zal ik doen. ik ben het eens met de heer tang wanneer hij het heeft over het belang van perspectief voor syrische vluchtelingen, bijvoorbeeld in turkije op het gebied van onderwijs en gezondheidszorg. ik ben het eens met de heer van dalen dat we heel scherp moeten letten op de concurrentie uit andere delen van de wereld op het gebied van onze vliegtuigindustrie en dat we zeker moeten weten dat er gelijke concurrentievoorwaarden zijn. ik was blij met de zeer pragmatische insteek van mevrouw in 't veld, die opnieuw, zoals ik ook in het nederlandse parlement een paar keer merkte, nogal verschilt van de benadering van haar partijleider, de heer pechtold. zij stelt een zeer pragmatische aanpak van de problemen in de europese unie voor. dat spreekt mij aan en ik hoop dat zij ook in haar partij nog meer mensen kan overtuigen van deze benadering. many asked me about my vision on the european union, particularly some of your members. wir alle wissen, was helmut schmidt gesagt hat: „wer visionen hat, soll zum arzt gehen.“ that deals with that point, and i believe it also answers the questions by ms hazekamp and mr de jong. er was een interessante discussie tussen meneer eickhout en annie schriejer-pierik. we agree that agriculture and fisheries are of great importance to the eu economy and food security. the challenge will be to feed 9 billion people globally in 2050. climate policy, smart agriculture, combating food and water waste are all important and prominent issues for the netherlands presidency programme. the central element, of course, is the review of the common agriculture policy in 2020. we must take the interests of farmers and food producers to heart. here i fully agree with mrs schreijer-pierik’s approach on this issue. i thank mr farage, mr vilimsky and mr voigt for their very critical remarks. i am not sure i will be able to convince them in the next six months about our approach, but i can assure them that i will do my utmost to listen. mr olbrycht asked a question on the pact of amsterdam and the position of cities within the european union. i consider them the engines of innovation, so the pact of amsterdam has my full support. we will work on this. meneer van baalen, u vroeg over de vluchtelingencrisis. een gebalanceerde benadering, ik ben het daar zeer mee eens. we moeten ook precies weten wie er wel en niet mag binnenkomen. belangrijk is ook een betere bescherming van de buitengrenzen, ook om daarmee te voorkomen dat terreur een kans krijgt en een verdere voet aan de grond zou krijgen binnen de europese unie. ik ben het daar zeer mee eens. mr buonanno, i would like to thank you for the film tip. i will certainly try to look at ‘quo vado?’ as soon as possible and then see whether it can help us in the presidency. mevrouw van bossuyt, zeer veel dank voor de ondersteunende woorden. i think i am almost at the end of my time. again, there are so many others who spoke. i can only tell you i wrote everything down, we will make sure that we make maximum use of all your insights, i look forward to working with all of you over the next six months, and this debate has really fired me up for that relationship between the dutch holding the presidency of the council and this esteemed european parliament. (applause)
in writing. welcome and good luck mr prime minister. the six months ahead will present definitive challenges for the european union: immigration, terrorism and brexit in the first place. only greater cooperation between member states will provide the necessary breakthrough in managing migration and refugee flows. the integrity of the schengen area is at risk and the creation of a european intelligence agency is an urgent priority. it is strategic that you mentioned to the young people: a europe that wants a future must cultivate it in its youth. the presidency therefore encourages the development of a comprehensive approach to reducing youth unemployment and social exclusion. the objective of innovation and sustainability in agriculture, in the simplification of the cap, which is one of the priorities of any presidency that wants to combat food waste and ensure food security, must therefore be challenged and achieved. the european economic fabric of smes must also be rebuilt, taking advantage of their resilience to recessions such as the current one. the european value chain must therefore be strengthened, against all radicalisation and terrorism, with more europe, but also with a europe closer to the citizens. time is short. good work!
in writing. i fully agree with president juncker's words. it is true that europe has been facing one crisis after another, or rather one crisis after another, in recent times. the economy, the migrants, the almost exit of greece, brexit, the terrorism that advances. it is a time of trial for the european house, but it is also a time to prove that our foundations are solid. we must remain united, working together, in a concrete way and close to the citizens of the union. we have managed to find an agreement with greece, we must also find one with britain. we're not going to get far by losing parts on the road. just as we will not solve the problem of migrants by abolishing schengen. closing the frontiers has a very high economic cost, but not only that, it is not in the spirit of european integration. to solve a crisis that threatens us, we must not take steps backwards, we must take steps forward. we must concentrate on a common immigration policy, we must show solidarity between all of us in the union and with the non-european countries that need us at this moment.
in writing. in the six months of work which the dutch presidency has ahead of it, i hope it will show that it is able to meet the difficult challenges ahead at such a critical time for the european project itself. it is to be appreciated that the question of migrants and international security is one of the priorities of the new dutch presidency: we need common and effective solutions to solve the crisis of our continent. at the same time, however, it is very worrying that not as much attention has been paid to the need to revive europe by boosting european industry and the real economy, in the context of completing the european internal market. it seems that the new dutch presidency has not learned any useful lessons after years of the myopic vision of an economic development model exclusively linked to finance and services. this is not surprising, however, since it is clearly stated in the presidency's own work programme that the question of granting china market economy status and the consequent weakening of european trade defence instruments, such as anti-dumping ones, is already decided. it would be a very serious blow to european industry.
in writing. continuing on the path of austerity, rigour, structural reforms, faithful implementation of the commission's recommendations, further strengthening of coordination mechanisms and economic governance, completion of the banking union, capital markets union, relaunch of securitisation. these are just some of the priorities on the political agenda in the netherlands after the disappointing six months of the luxembourg presidency. we must remember that the netherlands is one of the main causes of the problems which it claims to be solving by enforcing the rules. the same rules which, with the blessing of the european commission, it has systematically violated, such as those on excessive trade surpluses and state aid in the field of taxation. i expect nothing more than a six-month period of business as usual from one of the world's biggest tax havens, which has prospered for years on the backs of its european partners, in full continuity with the excellent work of diplomatic sabotage in any tax field carried out by the juncker presidency, and with the very tough line embodied by its finance minister, dijsselbloem, who has already shown how important cooperation, common sense and fairness in crisis management are for the europe of the hawks.
in writing. ‒ the 2005 prum treaty established new modalities and rules for the improvement of information exchange between member states on enhancing crossborder cooperation. the exchange and sharing of police information between eu countries creates a network of communication and cooperation which is particularly useful in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. the council therefore decided to extend this cooperation network to latvia, allowing it to receive and transmit vehicle registration data. i voted in favour because i believe that the fight against crossborder crime and terrorism is an absolute priority today and requires the cooperation and commitment of everyone.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the council's draft implementing regulation on the launch of automated vehicle registration data exchange in latvia. this is a technical measure confirming latvia's compliance with the general provisions on data protection laid down in council decision 2008/615/jha. this is an important step which i wanted to support and which allows the baltic country to be included in the system for receiving and transmitting registration data.
in writing. ‒ the moraes report on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data between latvia and the eu is acceptable and free of criticism, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia is an important step in the fight against international terrorism, allowing for a faster exchange of information between member states' authorities.
in writing. - i vote for it. the simple text of the agreement (like others already voted on at previous partsession) on the exchange of vehicle registration information with latvia. as in the previous cases, no problems are observed.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the council's draft implementing regulation on the launch of automated vehicle registration data exchange in latvia. latvia has successfully completed the questionnaires on the exchange of vehicle registration data, including a pilot with the netherlands, and has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection laid down in council decision 2008/615/jha. in addition, a comprehensive evaluation report summarising the results of the questionnaire, the evaluation visit and the pilot experience on data exchange was submitted to the council, which concluded that latvia has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. therefore, in order to include latvia in the system for receiving and transmitting this information and data, i voted in favour of accepting the draft implementing regulation under consideration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text concerning the proposal for a council implementing decision authorising latvia to receive and transmit, by automated exchange, vehicle registration data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation. these are important measures, especially in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's proposal to launch the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia, as i believe it will help improve crossborder cooperation in the common fight against crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the launch of this exchange is, in a single market worthy of the name, a merely due act which i cannot but agree with. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the automated exchange of vehicle registration data is in line with the political will for greater crossborder cooperation. automated data exchange will improve our security and give us the capabilities we need to better fight terrorism. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision aims to authorise latvia to receive and transmit automated data exchange for vehicle registration data under council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in combating terrorism and crossborder crime. my vote on this report is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the project on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia, as it will contribute to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated vehicle registration data exchange in latvia. the transmission of personal data may only take place after the implementation of a set of data protection provisions, which is verified by an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, which must be completed by a member state as soon as it considers that it fulfils the preconditions for the exchange of data in the relevant data category. latvia has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of vehicle registration data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to ensure latvia's participation in the automated exchange of vehicle registration numbers. this is a step towards greater road safety in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council proposal to launch in latvia the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in order to improve crossborder cooperation in the common fight against crime.
in writing. ‒ it is now clear that crossborder crime and terrorism require an effective response from european bodies and member states. i therefore believe that the launch in latvia of the automated exchange of vehicle registration data, which latvia has already tried with the netherlands, is a further step to be taken as it can be seen as part of the measures to make the european territory safer. i therefore say that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ latvia, after completing the data protection questionnaire, the vehicle registration data exchange (vri) questionnaire and a pilot study with the netherlands, has fully complied with the general provisions on data protection in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha. therefore, by its resolution of 9 july 2015 on the european agenda on safety, the european parliament endorses the draft council decision on the launch of automated vehicle registration data exchange in latvia. that is why i voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia because it will make it possible to take an important step forward in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. the current circumstances require more efficient cooperation than ever between european and national law enforcement authorities on the exchange of personal data. however, it is necessary for the member states concerned to implement certain general provisions in order to be able to initiate such transfers. latvia, following the verification of this condition carried out on the basis of a questionnaire and a pilot project, has demonstrated that it has fully implemented the general provisions and can therefore exchange vehicle registration data, thus making a significant contribution to the prevention of the most serious forms of crime and terrorist activity.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle and an indispensable corollary of due process, provided for in the rule of law to prevent any form of arbitrariness or abuse in judicial proceedings. this principle is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu in article 48, where the presumption of innocence is considered a general principle of the european union. within the framework of the judicial cooperation policy, the harmonization of national laws on procedural rights will ensure that the principle of due process is respected throughout europe, as well as the practical realization of european citizenship. i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to establish a relationship of mutual trust between the national judicial systems.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is one of the fundamental principles underpinning the legislation of the european legal systems in the field of criminal law and procedure, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union and, previously, in the european convention on human rights. the griesbeck report on the proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings is an important step towards the definition of minimum standards applicable throughout the union at eu level. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to strengthen the mechanisms for protecting defendants and suspects in order to avoid cases of arbitrary judgments and abuses in criminal proceedings. the text presented reaffirms the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself and the right not to cooperate, outlines the central elements of the principle of innocence and reiterates the importance of the right to be present at trial. the limitation of cases where trials in absentia are possible is a central aspect that needs to be carefully considered in the new directive in order to protect the right to a fair trial.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to avoid any arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings. the report we are voting on is acceptable and balanced, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings are the pillars on which the rule of law and our society are based and must therefore be protected in every way by all authorities and institutions at all levels, without exception.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal has been rightly and profoundly amended by the libe committee. the aim of the recast is to strengthen the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings by establishing common minimum standards (with a higher standard than that proposed by the commission) relating to certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the directive is part of the commission's final package on procedural rights, which aims to complete the existing european legal corpus on the rights of defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings within the european union. these are key instruments to ensure a fair trial throughout the union and full respect for the rights of the defence as enshrined in the european treaties, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. some important aspects of the presumption of innocence, which is a fundamental right essential to prevent arbitrariness and abuse in criminal proceedings, have been strengthened by the affirmation of the right to be present at trial and by the wide limitation of cases in which trials in absentia may be held.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings is part of the european procedural rights package and concerns a key principle of criminal law. the final text, although not as ambitious as it could have been, is not particularly critical and must be adopted in the general context of improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i consider the presumption of innocence to be a fundamental right and an essential principle to avoid any arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings and the underlying principle of the protection of the right to a fair trial. the report by mrs griesbeck on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings aims to improve the quality of protection afforded to these and related procedural rights. in particular, it abolishes the clause allowing the burden of proof to be reversed in the trial, which must always be borne by the public prosecutor; reinforces the wording of the right not to incriminate oneself, to refuse to cooperate and to remain silent, stating that any evidence obtained in violation of these rights should be declared inadmissible. it also expressly prohibits the coercion or compulsion of persons to make statements or to answer questions.
in writing. ‒ i voted to show my agreement with this proposal for a directive. this is a step forward, in my view, in the definition of common rules also on matters of competence which are not strictly transnational, but on which it is not acceptable that different rules can be applied from one side of a state border to the other. we are still in the field of procedure, but that does not mean that there is no room for further coordination and, beyond the political choice of whether or not to prosecute behaviour as a criminal offence, as long as the basic protections for defendants are the same.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right to avoid any arbitrariness or abuse in criminal proceedings, and a principle underlying the protection of the right to a fair trial. i therefore welcome the commission's presentation of the final package on procedural rights, containing three proposals for directives and therefore additional provisions aimed at protecting suspects or accused persons from premature guilty pleas, since the presumption of innocence is often violated by the media or the press, or the right to silence, to not incriminate oneself and not to cooperate and the right to be present at the trial.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is part of the second package of measures presented by the commission on procedural rights aimed at approximating the relevant laws of the member states with a view to improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are key instruments to ensure a fair trial throughout the union and full respect for the rights of the defence as enshrined in the european treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights (echr). the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to prevent any arbitrariness and abuse in criminal proceedings and a principle underlying the protection of the right to a fair trial, in accordance with article 6 of the echr, article 48 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as well as the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights. the commission's initial proposal was not ambitious enough and the final text does not represent an example of upward harmonisation. however, i believe that instruments such as this and the other directives in the procedural rights package are essential instruments for facilitating and improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters between member states in the future. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings aims to ensure a fair trial throughout the union in compliance with the rights of the defence as enshrined in the european treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights (echr). i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to avoid any arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings, while ensuring adequate protection of the right to a fair trial.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it aims to approximate the laws of the member states with a view to improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these are key instruments to ensure a fair trial throughout the union and full respect for the rights of the defence as enshrined in the european treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights (echr), complementing the existing european legal corpus on the rights of the defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings within the eu. the commission's proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings concerns a key principle of criminal law. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to prevent arbitrariness and abuse in criminal proceedings and a principle underpinning the protection of the right to a fair trial, in accordance with article 6 of the european convention on human rights, article 48 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. ‒ with this directive, europe is referring not so much to principles that already exist, at national and international level, but to the application of these fundamental rights, which are often disregarded, as confirmed by the european court of human rights. the principle of the presumption of innocence is a fundamental element in guaranteeing the right to a fair trial and in avoiding arbitrariness and abuse. we will ensure that this principle is applied in national legal systems, that the violations of the past are brought to an end and that every citizen is actually presumed innocent until the final verdict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the proposal, which focuses on the presumption of innocence, the procedural protection of minors during criminal proceedings and the right to provisional admission to legal aid in criminal proceedings, aims to guarantee eu citizens the right to a fair trial, to increase mutual trust in the systems of the member states, to facilitate mutual recognition of their judicial decisions and to ensure full respect for the rights of the defence as enshrined in the european treaties.
in writing. ‒ we need to ensure that procedural rights have a uniform minimum level of protection in all member states. i welcome the proposal for a directive voted today and hope that it will not only be properly transposed into the laws of all the member states but also be widely disseminated so that citizens are informed of their rights.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and of the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. it aims to ensure a minimum level of protection of the principle of the presumption of innocence in all member states and to strengthen the right of defendants to be present at their trial. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle which every state of the union must guarantee to the accused person, in order to avoid possible arbitrariness of judgment and possible abuse in proceedings, as already enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is crucial that the issue be addressed at european level, so as to ensure uniform protection within the member states and to avoid the expiry of the rights of suspects and accused persons, especially in terms of the presumption of innocence and procedural guarantees. in this context, it is essential that the union guarantees rights such as the right not to answer, the right to a new trial, the burden of proof and the right to be present at one's trial.
in writing. ‒ it is not uncommon for judicial truth, the only truth that really matters, to be influenced and distorted by conjecture and arbitrary interpretations by third parties. although the principle of the presumption of innocence is a cornerstone of the rule of law, it is often sacrificed on the altar of interests other than purely judicial ones. the document in question describes, in a balanced and cross-cutting manner, the need to ensure that the person under investigation or the accused is considered innocent until the last possible verdict. i share the content and expectations of this document and have therefore decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ considering that european legislation on the rights of the defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings plays a key role in ensuring a fair trial, i very much welcome the proposal to strengthen certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings put forward by the rapporteur on the commission's proposal, which was considered weak and unclear on some points. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the griesbeck report because it improved the commission's proposal for a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the final package on procedural rights, of which the directive is part, will define a common european legal framework capable of guaranteeing a fair trial and full respect for the rights of the defence, as enshrined in the european treaties, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights. in particular, i find particularly positive the decision to change the commission's proposal, supported by the centre-right, where it proposed a reversal of the burden of proof on the defence. i also think it's important to note that the right to remain silent is a right of the accused not to contribute to his own incrimination. providing for the extension of those rights to natural persons and to administrative proceedings which could lead to criminal consequences; the european parliament has also called for the european union to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented the final package on procedural rights containing three proposals for directives which will complement the existing european legal corpus on rights relating to the defence of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings within the european union. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and an essential principle to avoid any arbitrariness and any abuse in criminal proceedings. moreover, article 4 of the proposed directive is a fundamental provision to protect suspects or accused persons from premature convictions. it is therefore necessary to ensure that member states have appropriate legislation to prevent certain infringements. the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself and the right not to cooperate, as set out in articles 6 and 7 of the proposed directive, are also central elements of the presumption of innocence. finally, the right to be present at the trial is a fundamental element of the presumption of innocence, which is currently protected only by european law in the framework of the european arrest warrant. the proposal for a directive offers an opportunity to improve the protection provided for by this instrument. i support the adoption of this motion for a resolution in order to guarantee all citizens the means to protect them from any abuse of a judicial nature.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. the technical text is intended to replace council directive 89/686/eec, which has problems of clarity and repetition. in general terms, it is concerned with protecting the safety of workers by addressing a twofold problem involving, on the one hand, the non-use of personal protective equipment and, on the other, its improper use. the new regulation aims to update and simplify the regulatory framework, in particular by clarifying the points relating to the system of interconnection and the obligation of importers and distributors to inform the supervisory authorities in the event of a risk arising from non-compliant ipr. in view of the importance of these proposals, i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the ford report.
in writing. ‒ while i share the need to simplify and update legislation on safety and personal protection, i would have preferred these changes to be made by means of a directive rather than a regulation. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the legislation governing the trade in ppe (personal protective equipment) needs some minor changes to make it more efficient and at the same time to improve the safety of the individuals who use it.
in writing. ‒ ppe (personal protective equipment) has been on the eu market since 1989. for 25 years, the existing legislation in this area has enabled the single market to function, but it now needs to be updated in line with the new regulatory framework (nqf) which outlines the package of measures to streamline and simplify the regulations on goods in the single market. in particular, in response to concerns expressed with regard to the current regulatory requirements which are considered to be unclear and repetitive, this regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, strengthens cooperation between actors and introduces common definitions. the common approach under the nqf is to be supported as it improves and more effectively clarifies the competences of market surveillance authorities and allows the tracing and return of unsafe goods that may have been introduced into the single market, thus improving the safety of workers and the quality of goods traded.
in writing. ‒ this measure is also similar in theme to other pieces of legislation recently approved by the internal market committee. in this case the rapporteur is the president of imco herself. the need for simplification and updating on issues such as safety justified the european commission's update of directive 686 of 1989. our delegation would have preferred, in this case too, to have a directive rather than a regulation. it should be noted that italy is the leading european producer of personal protective equipment. the abstention vote is prompted by the need to be cautious about regulations which could potentially create adaptation costs for our production system. in fact, the italian companies have not given us any cause for concern and the text of the agreement with the council seems to be peaceful and free of any tension.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. as stated in the text voted, council directive 89/686/eec needs to be replaced in order to update the entire regulatory framework for this type of goods on the single market and to streamline and simplify the sources of law still in force. the regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, strengthens cooperation between all those concerned, introduces common definitions and clarifies the responsibilities of market surveillance authorities. the directive also introduces an obligation for importers and distributors to inform the manufacturer and the market surveillance authorities of non-compliant devices. the text which has been presented to us fully achieves the objectives which were identified and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs ford's report because the text aims, among other things, to harmonise the health and safety requirements for personal protective equipment (ppe) in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. since 1989, the presence of personal protective equipment (ppe) on the eu market has been fully harmonised by council directive 89/686/eec. however, the current ipr legislation needs to be updated in line with the new regulatory framework, which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify the regulations on goods in the single market. the ipr regulation replacing the current directive 89/686/eec responds to the need to improve the protection of the health and safety of users and to ensure the free movement of ipr on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ italian companies are european leaders in the production of personal protective equipment. it is therefore good news that we are further harmonizing technical standards to reduce the possible non-tariff barriers that our products face when they enter other markets. the great strength of the eu, and the greatest reason why it is worth being in europe, is precisely this huge potential market for italian products, and helping businesses to seize this potential is our task as members of parliament. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the updating of the existing directive to bring it into line with the new legislative framework and the provision of the regulation instrument which improves harmonisation between the different national systems. improved personal protective equipment undoubtedly increases the safety of those who wear it and reduces health risks.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment (ppe) simplifies and improves existing legislation, which is an outdated directive. a legislative measure that finally defines a harmonised and clear european regulatory framework, interprets and applies the provisions on products of daily use for european citizens and workers, such as protective clothing and headgear, life jackets and sunglasses. the regulation i voted for also lays down common technical standards, compliance and safety requirements and specific rules for the supervision of the market in personal protective equipment. a series of technical measures to further protect the health of users of these products, safeguard their safety and ensure fair and simplified conditions of competition for european companies producing these products. the updating of european standards is necessary for the completion of the single market and for the proper functioning of a sector of importance to european and italian industry, such as that of personal protective equipment, which has over 4000 companies and an estimated annual average turnover of several billion. italy is the leader and the main producer in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the current legislation on personal protective equipment (ppe) needs to be updated in line with the new legislative framework. in response to concerns expressed with regard to the current regulatory requirements which are considered to be unclear and repetitive, this regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, clarifies the competences of market surveillance authorities, strengthens cooperation between the different actors involved and introduces common definitions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the measures contained in it will help to reduce the administrative burden and provide greater legal certainty for all those involved in the production and supervision of products placed on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment because i shared the need highlighted by the european commission to modernise the existing legislation, which dates back to the 1990s, in relation to the evolution of the regulatory framework for the labelling of products and of available technologies. i am in favour of legislation which provides legal certainty for market operators and protects the health and safety of workers and users by combining market requirements and safety at work. i believe that this can only be achieved by means of really effective devices which are calibrated to the user's characteristics. i am in favour of legislation which will allow a sector in which italian industry has always been a leader to grow further, with a harmonisation of european rules which will eliminate those unfair competitors from the market and which will recognise the quality of products also with regard to the safety of those who use them. i therefore welcome the definition of the different categories of users, the requirements for technical documentation, including the use of new technologies, and the role assigned to the national supervisory authorities.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment. the proposal is for a regulation on personal protective equipment which aims to update the existing directive 89/686/eec by bringing it into line with the new legislative framework on the marketing of products. the regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, strengthens cooperation between them and introduces common definitions.
in writing. ‒ given the need to adapt the current directive, which was launched in 1989, to the new regulatory framework (nrc), we welcome the ford report. in particular, the reform is intended as a means of simplifying and clarifying the current legislation, which has been criticised for its alleged repetitiveness and lack of precision. the proposed text also aims to strengthen cooperation between the various actors, both institutional and non-institutional, by providing definitions and rules common to the european union as regards the treatment of goods placed on the european market whose safety is in question. we also agree with the rapporteur's intention not to upset the current regulatory framework by changing its objectives. the reform is designed to update and improve the instruments provided by the previous directive, while sharing its objectives. the purpose of the legislation is to ensure maximum safety for users of personal protective equipment, workers and consumers, within a common community framework. we also share innovations in market surveillance and corporate responsibility obligations. finally, the text appears to be consistent with the strategy for harmonizing the common market adopted by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment (ppe) aims to update council directive 89/686/eec by aligning it with the new legislative framework on the marketing of products. it contains a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify the regulations on goods in the single market, responding to the need to improve the protection of the health and safety of users and to ensure the free movement of ipr in the eu market. i therefore decided to support the document by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the rules on personal protective equipment (ppe) date back to council directive 89/686/eec; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. therefore, in the light of the new regulatory framework designed to streamline and speed up procedures, i believe that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur on the draft ipr regulation aimed at avoiding repetition and clarifying points of difficulty are desirable, especially in view of the fact that the protection of the end user passes through effective devices and the ability to use them correctly. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the current legislation on personal protective equipment (ppe), while well-functioning, requires an update in line with the new regulatory framework (nfr), which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify regulations on goods in the single market. in particular, this regulation clarifies the role of economic operators and introduces common definitions. in addition, it is proposed to eliminate the maximum five-year validity of the eu certificate of competence as, according to economic operators, this period is too short in relation to the normal life of ppe. i voted in favour of this report, hoping that the negotiations on this dossier can be concluded quickly.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation voted today aims to simplify and update the existing rules on personal protective equipment (ppe) in order to reduce the administrative burden and improve legal certainty for all those involved in the production and supervision of products placed on the european market. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the simplification of the rules is an advantage both for the producer, who can thus reduce unnecessary costs, and for the consumer, who will still be guaranteed a high level of protection and safety. finally, i am satisfied that products intended for private use for protection against non-extreme weather conditions or against humidity and water have not been included in the scope of the regulation, because such a provision would have resulted in a significant increase in costs for manufacturers, without any obvious benefit for consumers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the stihler report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the main objective is to ensure uniformity of legislation throughout the european territory, with particular attention to the essential requirements and assessment procedures.
in writing. ‒ while i share the need for harmonisation in the internal market, i would have preferred that this be implemented by means of a directive which would have given greater autonomy to the member states, and instead a regulation was opted for, which is much more binding, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the amendments to the legislation on gas appliances will make a major contribution to clarifying and simplifying the rules on this subject by imposing clear and organic rules which will become uniformly applicable throughout the union at the same time.
in writing. ‒ the nature of this regulation is purely technical. no political aspect emerged during the debate in the committee on the internal market, although the negotiations between the council, parliament and the commission were carried out quickly. the measure is part of a process of harmonisation within the internal market. the aim is to simplify and technically update the rules on products which, on our market, are linked to the safe use of gas and the rational use of energy. our delegation would have preferred to keep the text in the form of a directive, whereas the european commission preferred to adopt a regulation (less room for manoeuvre for the member states). the vote to abstain is a precaution to avoid any problems in the future with this legislation being negative. of course, at the moment our industry has not expressed any concerns, but we prefer to be more cautious.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances. the previous legislation already guaranteed the free movement of gas appliances, harmonising the conditions for placing such equipment on the market and putting it into service, and setting out the parameters necessary to avoid safety risks and the essential requirements which must be met in order to be marketed in the eu. the proposal for a regulation lays down clear and organic rules which will be uniformly applicable throughout the union: in particular, the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures of manufacturers should be identical in all member states. the proposal also contains provisions on products, setting out the obligations of the economic operators concerned. the text which has been presented to us appears to be complete and comprehensive and that is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ together with the m5s europe delegation, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague catherine stihler because the text aims, among other things, to harmonise the health and safety requirements for gas appliances in all member states. the protection of consumer safety is fundamental and essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances. the proposed gas appliances regulation is intended to replace directive 2009/142/ec, which covers a wide range of consumer products appliances used for cooking, refrigeration, air conditioning, space heating, hot water, lighting or washing. the change of the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the general political commitment to simplify and harmonise legislative production. the report proposes that the regulation should apply more specifically to gas appliances for domestic and non-domestic use for certain applications and to accessories, stressing that the latter should also be ce marked.
in writing. ‒ when it comes to technical regulations, the transition from directive to regulation is always good news. the margin of manoeuvre left by the directive always conceals non-tariff barriers and technical barriers to entry into a national market, which the regulation can finally avoid. these are pockets of inefficiency which are being reduced, to the benefit of excellent firms (and italy has many of them) which, especially when they are medium-sized, do not have the possibility of adapting to all markets but benefit from an opening up by regulation. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree with the choice of the regulation to increase the level of harmonisation between the different national regulations, which will certainly have positive effects on the single market. the gas equipment sector is of considerable importance to the european economy. i agree with the amendments which are being introduced to improve consumer safety, particularly as regards the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the main cause of death in this sector.
in writing. ‒ the new proposal for a regulation adopted today updates and improves the previous legislation in force on gas appliances such as boilers, cookers, ovens, barbecues and heating stoves - directive 2009/142/ec. a legislative measure that finally defines a harmonised and precise european regulatory framework, interpreting and applying in a uniform manner the provisions concerning gas appliances for domestic and non-domestic use, which are used daily by european citizens. the regulation i supported also defines common technical standards, compliance and safety requirements, such as ce marking of products, and specific rules for the supervision of the gas appliances market. a series of technical measures which serve to further increase the safety of people, promote a more rational and efficient use of energy and at the same time guarantee fair conditions of competition for european businesses. i am convinced that the completion of the internal market and increasingly effective consumer protection are intrinsically linked and should go hand in hand. the new rules voted on today are therefore an excellent example of the application of the principles of better regulation which are necessary for the full functioning of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation imposes conditions for the placing on the market and putting into service of gas appliances which will become uniformly applicable throughout the union, avoiding the risk of divergent transposition which could lead to different levels of safety protection and distort the internal market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the change in the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the general political commitment to work towards better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on gas appliances. i welcome the updating of the new regulatory framework in terms of harmonisation and simplification, which will reduce administrative burdens and improve legal certainty for all those involved in the production and control of products placed on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the regulation of the ep and of the council on gas appliances because i believe that the harmonisation of the rules and requirements for the marketing of these products in the internal market is a primary interest for many citizens who regularly use these products. i am thinking of a sector which employs some 476 000 people in the union, with nearly 470 million units sold: the choice of the legal instrument of the regulation is therefore appropriate, as it will allow for the harmonisation of markets and will prevent member states from further tightening the requirements for the marketing of gas appliances, thus promoting free competition in the single market. i am therefore in favour of harmonising the conditions for the sale of these products on the market so that the legislation reflects the new eu regulatory framework for the marketing of products, giving further impetus towards the completion of the single market.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on gas appliances. the directive aims to ensure the free movement and the proper functioning of the internal market of gas appliances and accessories which are new to the union market at the time of their placing on the market. it also lays down the essential requirements with which gas appliances must comply in order to be made available on the eu market, in particular the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers must be identical in all member states.
in writing. ‒ gas appliances are a sensitive issue in which a balance must be struck between safety requirements and the guarantee of competition. in voting in favour of this report, i also support the wish for greater protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the context of action to improve and simplify the european regulatory framework, the text, which calls for the legal instrument to be changed from a directive to a regulation, can only be welcomed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the regulation, by imposing common rules on all the member states, which will not be able to supplement its provisions by means of national legislation, will ensure greater harmonization and integration of the single market. the procedural rules will impose common standards and norms on all community producers, regardless of their nationality, which will thus prevent any distortion of the markets. the proposal also appears to be very consistent with european environmental and consumer protection policies. the new regulation appears to be open to compliance with and implementation of energy efficiency legislation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers' interests is based on the principle of the protection of consumers' interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on gas appliances. the proposal is intended to replace directive 2009/142/ec, which lays down the essential requirements with which gas appliances must comply in order to be made available on the eu market, with new provisions to allow for alignment with the new legislative framework. it has also contributed to the completion and functioning of the single market by harmonising the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances falling within its scope with regard to the safety and energy-saving risks of gas.
in writing. ‒ noting that the gas sector plays a key role in the union's economy and that gas appliances represent a wide range of goods with a considerable turnover (around 470 million units for over 30 million per year), i consider it useful to move legislation from a directive to a regulation; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. as i am a member of the envi and itre committees, i very much welcome the new provisions and amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which are part of the union's energy policy. it is therefore logical that i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ directive 2009/142/ec lays down the essential requirements that must be met by gas appliances to be placed on the market in the eu. this proposal for a regulation aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec with clear and organic rules which will become uniformly applicable throughout the union, without however changing its scope. in this way, the mandatory essential requirements and the conformity assessment procedures to be followed by manufacturers will be identical in all member states. according to the content of directive 2009/142/ec, accessories for gas appliances do not bear the ce marking. since accessories must meet the essential requirements so that they can properly fulfil their intended purpose when integrated into equipment, it is proposed to include the ce marking for equipment. another important aspect highlighted in this report is the protection of consumers in order to strengthen their confidence in the quality of products on the market. i think all these amendments to the existing directive are useful and that is why i voted in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ this report also strengthens the internal market and is not just a regulation for a regulation. that is why i have decided to support it, even as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to replace the existing directive on the free movement, placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances with a view to further harmonising eu rules. we must support any initiative which aims at completing and making the single market work, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report adopted today because it aims to simplify and update the existing rules on gas appliances in order to reduce the administrative burden and improve legal certainty for all those involved in the production and supervision of products placed on the european market. the scope of the proposal covers appliances used for cooking, refrigeration, air conditioning, space heating, hot water, lighting or washing and includes, as compared with the previous directive, safety, control and regulatory devices and their subgroups incorporated in gas appliances. i believe that in a sector as hazardous as gas appliances, consumer safety must be particularly protected. the new regulation will ensure that new appliances placed on the european market will further increase the safety and protection of citizens and ensure the rational use of energy. i am also pleased that the report refers to carbon monoxide poisoning as one of the many problems associated with the use of gas appliances, and not as the only problem to be found, as was originally intended.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations. the aim of the highly technical measure is to harmonize the legislation of the member states on the design, manufacture and placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations. the text presented by mr antonio lópez-istúriz white clarifies in particular the differences in the application of the legislation between installations for the transport of persons and cableway installations used for recreational activities. the quality of the report and my own share of the content have led me to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the lópez-istúriz white report analysing the simplification and improvement of safety criteria for cableway installations is acceptable and balanced. i think the text under voting is not particularly critical, and i agree with the rapporteur's choice to specify precisely the scope of this regulation and the exclusion of historic installations such as the old funiculars in many of our towns, all of which are measures designed to contain the increase in costs for companies active in this sector. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the amendments to the legislation on cableway installations will make a major contribution to clarifying and simplifying the rules on cableway installations by imposing clear and organic rules which will be uniformly applicable throughout the union at the same time.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal for a regulation on cableway installations is an example of eu harmonisation legislation. harmonisation of the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations is useful to ensure the free movement of these products in the eu. the obligation in the proposal to design and manufacture, in accordance with the basic requirements laid down by the new regulation, all safety components and subsystems increases the level of safety of citizens using cableway installations, both for the transport of persons and for the movement of goods, by ensuring uniform implementation throughout the union with clear and detailed rules that will avoid costs of transposition or secondary adaptation, looking to the criterion of the highest standard as a factor of protection of the internal market and the safety of the consumer/user of the cableway installation system.
in writing. - i vote for it. in practice, the text contains no politically problematic aspects. the european commission's objectives include simplifying and improving safety criteria. the interests of the farms in our area seem to be sufficiently protected by the measure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations. the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. all safety components and subsystems shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements of the regulation. the directive also provides for the overall harmonisation of the basic requirements to be met by such installations for the transport of persons, repealing and replacing directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000. finally, the exclusions from the scope of the regulation are clearly indicated, such as cableway installations used for recreational activities in amusement parks and amusement parks. the text which has been presented to us fully achieves the objectives which were identified and that is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ today we are voting on the third text on consumer protection. as this is an essential condition, i voted in favour of the report by mr antonio lópez-istúriz white, together with the m5s europe delegation, because the text aims, among other things, to harmonise the safety requirements for cableway installations in all the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations because i support the need to simplify and harmonise legislative production. the proposed regulation on installations, whose scope covers cableway installations, their subsystems and safety components, replaces the existing directive 2000/9/ec, thus bringing the legislation into line with the new regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation after having tabled a question on it several months ago. however, although this regulation is a step forward, i have some questions: the technical requirements for the plants are laid down in this text, while differences in regulations relating to the management aspects of the slides remain. i am referring to professional figures who could be incorporated but whose laws in individual states provide for this (distorting competition in favour of other states which have weaker legislation and therefore involve lower costs for businesses) and who are not justified by greater security. the next step is therefore to address these other aspects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update existing legislation on cableway installations. i particularly welcome the introduction of provisions to improve market surveillance.
in writing. ‒ italy, together with germany, france, austria and switzerland, has more than half of europe's 17,500 cableway installations. lift systems such as funiculars, cable cars, cable cars, cable cars, chairlifts, slides and other facilities for tourism or sport are essential for the operation of the entire ski and urban transport sector, its main markets. the aim of the new proposal is to update and improve the previous legislation in force, directive 2000/9/ec. a measure which finally clarifies the european regulatory framework, defining precisely its scope, interpreting strictly and applying the provisions in a uniform manner in a market which plays an important role for the economy of our country. the approved regulation defines common technical standards, compliance and safety requirements, marking and surveillance of the ropeway market and leads to improved surveillance and safety for citizens, sportsmen and all other types of users. today's vote is another step forward towards a priority objective for the union and the socialist and democratic group: the completion and proper functioning of the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations for the carriage of persons, ensuring the free movement of such products within the eu. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the change in the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the general political commitment to work towards better regulation and simplification of the regulatory environment. the choice of the regulation avoids the risk of divergent transposition by imposing clear and detailed rules which apply uniformly throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the measures identified in it reduce administrative burdens and improve legal certainty for producers and those involved in product surveillance; i also welcome the measure concerning the historic cableway installations which will be able to continue to operate without the use of what are likely to be prohibitive costs.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the proposal for a parliament and council regulation on cableway installations. this regulation applies to new ropeway installations and governs subsystems and safety components which are new to the union market at the time of placing on the market. the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. the commission has therefore proposed a regulation to update existing eu legislation on cableway installations to bring it into line with the new legislative framework on the marketing of products.
in writing. ‒ this report will ensure greater safety for european citizens, particularly in tourist areas with cableway installations. the conversion of the previous directive into a regulation is an important signal in this direction.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the adoption of this proposal for a regulation on cableway installations, as it is a concrete example of eu harmonisation legislation. the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. all safety components and subsystems shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements set out in this regulation, which is based on the general principle of precaution and consumer protection. since the regulation provides for full harmonisation, member states will no longer be allowed to impose additional or more stringent requirements in national legislation. finally, we welcome the decision to propose the measure in the form of a regulation, which will avoid all unnecessary transposition costs and will impose clear and detailed rules which will apply immediately and uniformly throughout the union. this choice was also made in order to avoid the risk of divergent transposition, which could lead to different levels of protection of the safety and health of european consumers and to obstacles to the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market and ensuring the free movement of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations in the eu. all safety components and subsystems shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements of the regulation. this regulation repeals and replaces directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 on cableway installations for the carriage of persons. i voted in favour of the measure because i support the need to simplify and harmonize the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to note that the new regulation repeals and replaces directive 2000/9/ec, harmonising the rules and preventing states from creating different regimes which would create market distortions and differences in treatment. i also think it is a priority, as the rapporteur has made clear, to clarify the rope-operated devices covered by the regulation and the excluded installations, thus eliminating the remaining doubts on this matter. i feel that i should vote in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation aims to replace directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 on cableway installations for the carriage of persons. i voted in favour of this initiative because its purpose is to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the eu. this choice avoids the risk of divergent transposition, which may lead to different levels of security protection and to obstacles to the internal market. it is also considered important to improve the consistency of the text with the new regulatory framework (nqf) and to introduce specific rules on market surveillance. the proposal also has the advantage of clarifying the scope of application of cableway installations designed for the transport of persons and of the subsystems and safety components intended for such installations.
in writing. ‒ in western europe and the alps, there are currently around 17 500 cableway installations and the ski industry is still the main market for cableway technologies. in addition, italy, germany, austria, france and switzerland have 50% of the european plants. i therefore voted in favour of the report which aims to harmonise the conditions for placing safety components for cableway installations on the market and to ensure the free movement of such products in the eu. the proposal provides that the new harmonisation legislation will apply to new ropeway installations (ropeways, chairlifts, slides and cable cars) and that all safety components will be designed and manufactured in accordance with the basic requirements laid down in the regulation. furthermore, thanks to the ecr group, historical ropeway installations were excluded from the full application of the regulation, since the spare parts are custom-made and as such could not have been covered by the scope of the verification provided for in the regulation without incurring prohibitive costs for their operation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the proposal put forward by the gue/ngl group, while highlighting real problems concerning violations of human rights, the principles of equality and non-discrimination by the kyrgyz republic, does not in my view represent an effective response. objection to a commission delegated act aiming at establishing a special development incentive scheme in kyrgyzstan would not help to address and overcome the difficulties of the country. the union's response must not be an objection but a continuing political commitment to the rule of law, which is why i did not support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have always opposed the system of generalised tariff preferences in force in the eu, not because i think this instrument is not useful, but because i think it should be relaxed and limited to a smaller and better selected number of beneficiary countries. i am convinced that the objection to this delegated act by the gue group to kyrgyzstan alone is purely political in nature, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this objection to the delegated act on a system of generalised tariff preferences because i consider it to be essentially unfounded.
in writing. - i abstained. our delegation has always opposed the current system of generalised tariff preferences in the eu (and its recent reform), not because we do not believe that these types of instruments are useful and appropriate (they should facilitate trade for poor or less developed countries), but because we believe that they should be limited to a much smaller number of beneficiaries. the beneficiaries of the gsp+ system are not only countries with unfavourable economic conditions, but also producers who can create market distortions with their exports to europe (think of pakistan's textiles or the philippines' fisheries, for example). for these reasons, therefore, we find it instrumental to object to kyrgyzstan, a former soviet state in central asia which certainly does not represent a problem in terms of potential competition with our production system and which, incidentally, seems to be getting closer politically to putin's russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in order to grant an applicant state the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, under which no import duties are applied for more than 6000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries. to qualify for this scheme, each country must meet specific conditions, as this status is not granted automatically but requires a case-by-case assessment. the kyrgyz republic, which has applied for these benefits, has been found to be guilty of numerous violations, including the widespread practice of torture and ill-treatment of persons arrested, the failure to conduct timely and impartial investigations, and other breaches of the principles of equality and non-discrimination. these elements seriously affect the effective implementation of the relevant conventions referred to in annex viii to the regulation and therefore, in order to inform the commission that the delegated regulation cannot enter into force, i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the request for a system of generalised tariff preferences in respect of kyrgyzstan.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my disagreement because i do not consider that the formal and substantive conditions for the measure are met.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection because i think the commission has done a good job in preparing this act and because i think it is consistent with the legislative mandate given to it. i think that the political message of the group which raised this objection is now out of date and that we must face up to reality.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection tabled by the eug to the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences (gsp) because i consider it important to open a negotiated and commercial relationship with the kyrgyz republic. i share the view of the s-d group in rejecting the objection to the application of tariff preferences, because i believe that good trade relations, and trade policy in general, are an important instrument also for raising the level of duties and for pushing the local authorities towards a path of openness and recognition of the rights of the citizens of that country. the vote does not mean that we are going to lower our guard on the problems in the country, but we are going to send a message of caution that could lead the commission to tackle these issues in the context of trade relations between the eu and kyrgyzstan.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the regulation on the application of a system of generalised tariff preferences because i do not believe that the formal and substantive conditions for the measure are met.
in writing. ‒ the generalised system of preferences (gsp) is designed to help developing countries by facilitating their exports in order to make them full partners in international trade. in view of what i have learned from reading the objection, i do not believe that supporting it is the best course to take and i do not intend to support it. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ weaning foods play a key role in the transition from a diet based entirely on breast milk to a diet with the introduction of solid foods. each of these products must meet high standards of quality and be formulated in such a way as to enable the infant to receive the nutrients required for his specific stage of development. the who recently published a recommendation that there should be no added salt or sugar in infant formulae. this is a much more restrictive position than that laid down in part 3 of annex i to the delegated regulation submitted by the commission, which provides that 30% of the energy supplied by infant foods may come from sugar. it is precisely in view of this that i decided to vote in favour of the objection, considering that the commission has not paid sufficient attention to the dimension of the protection of children's health.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the vote would slow down an already established review process. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today's vote provides an important signal on the european parliament's position on infant feeding and demonstrates its alignment with the general recommendations of the world health organisation. since the who recommends limiting sugar intake to less than 10% of total energy intake during early childhood, we had no choice but to reject the commission's proposal that sugars could continue to account for up to 30% of the calorie intake of baby food. this would not only be contrary to the aforementioned who position but also to the health advice from the scientific committees of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based foods and baby foods because i consider that the provisions contained in the act in question do not take sufficient account of the main recommendations of the world health organisation and therefore present important gaps from a scientific point of view.
in writing. ‒ it is important to make public the list of 'bilateral meetings' that the commission has held with stakeholders in drafting the regulation integrating the specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based foods and baby foods (c(2015) 06507 2015/2863 (dea) both for transparency and to strengthen citizens' trust in the eu institutions and decision-making process. we therefore hope that the commission will respect the who guidelines on infant feeding, particularly with regard to limiting the intake of sugar in infant formulae and the elimination of glyphosate in food industry workers because of the harmful effects of this substance on the health of children. the road to the well-being of the union lies first and foremost in the good health of our children and their proper nutrition.
in writing. ‒ the text of the objection, submitted by the greens, calls for a lowering of the maximum sugar levels in line with the who recommendations. in this respect, it should be noted that the european commission has already indicated its intention to request efsa to review and update the outdated composite criteria for infant foods, which date back to a scientific opinion of several years ago. the italian industry therefore considers that the grounds for the objection have already been taken into account by the commission, which has therefore initiated the correct procedure. the approval of the de facto objection would have the opposite effect to that envisaged, delaying an already planned review process. finally, the fundamental reason for this objection is the forced promotion of breastfeeding, which is irreplaceable in terms of the immune system, but not always possible and potentially more dangerous than industrial products, because it concentrates the chemicals consumed by the mother.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objection to a delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based foods and foods for infants. parliament decided to oppose this delegated act as the commission has not submitted to parliament and the council the report on early childhood formula as required by article 12 of regulation (eu) no 609/2013, which is a necessary prerequisite for national strategies to reduce childhood obesity. furthermore, part 3 of annex i to the delegated regulation provides that 30% of the energy provided by infant formulae may come from sugar. this is contrary to the advice of the world health organization (who), which recommends a sharp reduction in total sugar intake, especially for infants and young children. in view of these factors, i have decided to vote in favour of this objection, thus opposing this delegated act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which objects to a delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based foods and foods for infants. the text recommends that the maximum sugar content be reduced to comply with the world health organisation (who) guidelines. the who recommends limiting sugar to less than 10% of total energy intake, but according to the european commission's proposal sugars could continue to provide up to 30% of calories in baby food. excessive sugar in baby food would not protect infants and children against obesity, which is why i supported the veto of this draft legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not think that the commission's delegated regulation lacks provisions to protect the food safety of infants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection for two important reasons: the first is that, in view of the recent cases of communication, i no longer believe in the world health organization and therefore i no longer trust its recommendations and i do not think that legislation should be adapted to what is said by an institution that has proven to be extremely biased. the second, more legal, reason concerns the regulatory vacuum that this objection would create and which must be avoided if companies are to operate within a clear and predictable legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the commission has already asked efsa to review and update the outdated composite criteria for baby food. therefore, the approval of such an objection would only delay an already planned review process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution referring to regulation (eu) no 609/2013 on food intended for particular nutritional uses, because it addresses four important issues: early childhood obesity and the need to substantially reduce the maximum permitted level of sugar in line with who recommendations; contaminants and zero tolerance for pesticides as a general principle; the labelling and clear indication that infant formulae are not suitable for infants below 6 months of age and should not undermine the recommendation for exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months; the transparency and publication of the bilateral meetings held by the commission with stakeholders during the process of drafting the delegated regulation. my decision was prompted by the fact that both the who and the scientific committees of the member states recommend a significant reduction in the total sugar intake; warn that the introduction of such foods is likely to contribute to the increasing levels of childhood obesity and may affect the development of taste preferences in children; finally, that for infants and young children in particular, added sugar levels should be kept to a minimum.
in writing. i strongly supported the proposal to reject the adoption of the delegated act on early childhood nutrition. i particularly agree with the text on the protection of early childhood against obesity: the delegated regulation does not contain sufficient measures to protect children, especially for the maximum level of sugar allowed in line with the who recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection to the commission delegated regulation of 25 september 2015 supplementing regulation (eu) no 609/2013 of the european parliament and of the council with regard to specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based foods and foods for infants, because i believe that correct and balanced nutrition should be a shared challenge of policy and institutions to affirm new lifestyles and new eating habits, ensuring well-being and health for future generations. i believe that sugar intake of 10% or more is a negative health determinant, since excessive energy and caloric intake is the definite cause of many metabolic diseases, the first of which is obesity. i therefore believe it is essential to pursue the objective of promoting breastfeeding by organising awareness-raising and promotion campaigns based on scientific evidence of the nutritional benefits and positive effects of the mother-child relationship. investing in prevention also means reducing public health costs. we therefore welcome the commitment made by the commission in this house to the drafting of the new delegated act, which should be completed within 12 months at the latest.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not believe that the commission's delegated regulation lacks provisions to protect the safety of food for young children
in writing. ‒ i consider the problem to be of paramount importance given that overweight and obesity levels among european children have increased significantly in recent years and it is our duty to implement a strategy to tackle the situation. however, i do not believe that the approach set out in the objection is the strategy to be adopted, which i believe needs to be revised. i therefore feel that i must vote against.
in writing. ‒ part three of annex i to regulation (eu) no 609/2013 on foods for infants and young children provides that 30% of the energy provided by foods for young children may come from sugar. i consider that the commission delegated regulation (c(2015) 06507) contains sufficient measures to adequately protect infants and young children from obesity and sets clear rules for operators in the sector and competent authorities. the european commission has undertaken to do so by consulting the european food safety authority and taking into account the latest scientific data. i voted against this motion for a resolution because i believe that the commission will be able, if necessary, to revise the essential requirements for the composition of these baby foods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the draft delegated act which would have allowed baby food to continue to contain much higher levels of sugar (up to three times higher) than those recommended by the world health organisation (who). the european parliament voted to reduce the sugar limit in the eu to meet the who recommendations and to avoid the increase in childhood obesity, which is already a serious problem due to poor dietary habits. the text adopted today also recalls that, in accordance with the precautionary principle, emerging technologies such as gmos and nanotechnologies, the long-term risks of which are unknown, should be banned in foods for children.
in writing. the who recommends limiting sugar intake to less than 10% of total energy consumption, making it clear that adhering to the 5% limit would offer greater guarantees to prevent the onset of certain diseases. however, according to the european commission's proposal, sugars could still account for up to 30% of the calorie intake of baby food, which is three times more than the recommended amount. the introduction of such high levels of sugar in foods, especially at such an early age, would have contributed to the increase in childhood obesity and could affect children's food preferences. in particular, as recommended by who, for infants and young children, added sugar levels should be kept to a minimum. given that poor nutrition is still the single biggest cause of illness and death worldwide, even more so than smoking, alcohol and physical inactivity taken together, i find the commission's proposal puzzling. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the maximum level of sugar allowed in foodstuffs must be brought into line with the requirements laid down by the world health organization.
in writing. ‒ for more than 50 years, colombia has been torn apart by a terrible civil war between the national government and various guerrilla groups; the most prominent of these are the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc). exploratory dialogues were initiated in havana beginning in 2012 and led the government of colombia and the farc to conclude, in september 2015, an agreement to establish a special peace jurisdiction. the union has in recent years promoted a path of economic and political cooperation with the united states, making a concrete effort to promote the cessation of hostilities. i supported the resolution on the peace process in colombia because i believe that we must continue to support this process, including by encouraging the opening of negotiations with the national liberation army, another guerrilla group involved in the conflict. the end of years of violence, murder and the disappearance of civilians can only be achieved with the commitment of the entire colombian society supported by the international community. the paths of respect for human rights, the fight against inequality and poverty can open colombia to a future of peace.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is of paramount importance that the eu supports the stabilisation process in colombia in order to return the socio-political situation to normal, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in september and december 2015, the colombian government and the farc announced the conclusion of two agreements on an ad hoc jurisdiction for the construction of a stable and lasting peace in the country. the recognition of the rights of victims and the inclusion of civil society and ngos in the conclusion of the agreements are particularly relevant elements in this context, which give hope for future developments towards a genuine and participatory democratic transition. the european union welcomes with confidence the political and cultural openness of the farc on the one hand and the perseverance and efforts shown by the colombian government on the other, reiterating its readiness to assist the country in the implementation of the agreements or in the delicate post-conflict phase, a commitment also called for in the parliament's resolution which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the success of the peace process in colombia is an important objective from many points of view and that it is the task of the entire international community, and therefore also of the european union, to support this process in order to resolve this situation of guerrilla warfare which has lasted for almost 30 years.
in writing. ‒ the peace process that the farc and the government of colombia have embarked upon after 50 years of violent clashes that have caused great suffering to the population, both as a result of terrorist attacks and actions by paramilitary groups, and which has resulted in, inter alia, killings, forced disappearances, kidnappings, sexual violence, abuse against minors, internal and external displacement of the population, the detonation of anti-personnel mines and over 200 000 victims of various kinds of violent death in colombia alone, should be supported with all the political and diplomatic resources that the union and its member states can put in place, as it is crucial not only for the pacification of the republic of colombia but also for the stabilisation of the area and the weakening of the international drug trafficking that has thrived in the constant situation of civil war that has characterised colombia's post-war history to date. we hope that the peace process will proceed swiftly, with the cooperation of the international community, so that the reforms which the colombian people need can be implemented quickly and a new and better page in the history of modern colombia can be opened.
in writing. - i vote for it. the situation is confusing but there are prospects of stabilizing the conflict situation and of restoring balance and peace between the opposing factions in the colombian national context.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the peace process in colombia. after more than three years of negotiations in havana, the country is moving fast towards signing the agreement between the government and the main guerrilla group, the farc. the commitment of the colombian church and the holy see has been crucial in achieving this important result. but we must also remember the intervention of the european union, which, with its constant support for the negotiations, helped to find a comprehensive agreement quickly that paved the way for an armistice and put an end to half a century of suffering in colombia. the path, though still uphill, does not seem impossible. now, with the help of europe, every effort must be made to reach a peace agreement, which represents a real hope in the international scene torn apart by the 'third world war'.
in writing. ‒ colombia has been experiencing an endemic crisis since the mid-1960s, and colombian civil society, as well as human rights defenders, are threatened by the ongoing guerrilla state in the country. on december 20th, the farc unilaterally proclaimed a ceasefire after 3 of the 6 items on the agenda were agreed with the government. alarming issues, as amnesty denounces in its 2014/15 report, are the impunity granted to paramilitaries who have laid down their arms, as well as extrajudicial executions by the armed forces. the guerrilla state clearly violates the rights of large sections of the population. i voted in favour of the resolution because it supports the peace process started in havana and calls on the eu and especially the member states and donors to guarantee the promised financial support. it shall encourage the involvement of civil society and its organisations in the peace process and its operational developments. it called for specific support for ethnic communities and for the fight against and punishment of drug trafficking, but above all it welcomed the agreement between the parties that there would be no amnesty for the most serious crimes.
in writing. - i've decided to support the measure. on 23 september 2015, the government of colombia and the farc announced the conclusion of an agreement on the creation of a special peace court under international law that will meet the rights of victims and contribute to the construction of a stable and lasting peace. parliament welcomed the agreement and acknowledged the political effort, realism and perseverance shown by both the colombian government and the farc in reconciling their divergent positions, gradually creating a space of engagement which allowed progress to be made towards a stable and lasting peace. it also stressed the importance of ensuring that peacebuilding also entails a strong commitment to the fight against inequalities and poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the spirit of conciliation and overcoming conflict which it contains should animate any effort by the international community to deal with these kinds of issues. i also find that the text of the resolution tabled, which the epp strongly supported, is as balanced as one should be when talking about the affairs of another state, while respecting the principles of which my political group is the bearer.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union, which is based on such unshakable principles as peace and democracy, should support the peace process in colombia. fifty years have already passed since the outbreak of the conflict and the loss of thousands of lives. i therefore welcome the willingness shown by the colombian head of state and the farc to put an end to this war and to reach an agreement on the judicial consequences of the war, and i also welcome the signing of the peace agreement.
in writing. ‒ after 51 years of civil war, the peace agreement reached by the colombian government is a historic milestone. i particularly welcome the inclusion in the agreement of a clause on the establishment of a truth, coexistence and non-repetition commission, as well as measures for the reparation of victims. at this crucial moment it is vital that europe shows itself to be a force for peace, to ensure that an agreement is concluded and effectively implemented which brings peace and justice to the colombian people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution tabled under rule 123 of the rules of procedure on support for the peace process in colombia. the internal conflict that has been going on in the south american country for nearly fifty years has caused immense suffering to the population; i believe that the time has come to give the country the chance to achieve a stable and lasting peace and to turn the page on a tragic history of brutal murders, kidnappings, rapes, disappearances and all kinds of abuses against civilians. the agreement reached in december 2015 between the colombian government and the farc is therefore a positive step in this direction, the result of a rare realism and political perseverance that will perhaps succeed in bringing together two positions that have been irreconcilable so far, in bringing an end to the violence and bringing justice to the countless victims. finally, i would stress the importance of combining the peace process with a strong commitment to combating poverty and social inequalities, and a firm support for employment and the protection of human rights, as well as a determined effort to find a solution to the problem of drug trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because europe must reaffirm and strengthen its support for the path of national reconciliation started in 2012 with the farc. it is a fundamental step towards improving the human rights situation and the economic and civil development of the country.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for the european parliament's resolution on support for the peace process in colombia, also taking into account the close political, economic and trade cooperation between the eu and colombia. on 23 september 2015, the government of colombia and the farc announced the conclusion of an agreement on the creation of a special peace court under international law that will meet the rights of victims and contribute to the construction of a stable and lasting peace. parliament welcomed the agreement and acknowledged the political effort, realism and perseverance shown by both the colombian government and the farc in reconciling their divergent positions, gradually creating a space of engagement which allowed progress to be made towards a stable and lasting peace.
in writing. ‒ after decades of conflict, colombian president juan manuel santos has opened negotiations with the rebel group revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) to discuss a bilateral and final ceasefire as part of the ongoing peace talks. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the region. i also wish to express my approval of the decision taken by the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) to set up a truth commission to shed light on the bloody conflict.
in writing. ‒ negotiations to secure a lasting peace agreement in colombia are entering a decisive phase and it is necessary that the european union fully supports this process, which aims to end a conflict that has inflicted enormous suffering on the colombian people for more than fifty years. the agreements reached in havana between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) are moving in the right direction. both sides have shown perseverance and realism in their efforts to assert the rights of victims and to contribute to the creation of a stable and lasting peace based on the establishment of the truth, the application of justice and the provision of reparations. the agreements signed for a general agrarian reform, political participation and democratic openness are also decisive elements for the peace process to work effectively, so as to enable all the colombian political forces to contribute to the process of pacification and economic and social development of the country. i think it is very important that for the first time in history a subcommittee on gender is set up, whose task will be to ensure that women participate in the process of social reconstruction and that victims of sexual violence receive justice.
in writing. ‒ after 50 years of internal conflict in colombia, the government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) are trying to achieve the creation of a special jurisdiction, which will satisfactoryly resolve the main and most problematic issue of the negotiations, setting a deadline of six months to sign a final peace agreement before march 23, 2016. parliament called on the member states to set up a trust fund to support the post-conflict phase and to finance the prosecution of war criminals and help compensate victims. the peace process should also be accompanied by a determined effort to combat inequality and poverty. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i welcome the fact that the colombian armed forces have recently announced their intention to revise the military doctrine of colombia in order to prepare the armed forces to respond quickly and effectively to the new challenges posed by the post-conflict phase, while at the same time fulfilling the role of guarantor of the peace agreements.
in writing. ‒ the proposal was supported by the large majority of political groups in parliament. what is happening in colombia today is extraordinary and the european parliament must support the very difficult result achieved and promote an early conclusion of the negotiations.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here and for the work you have done in paris, which we all appreciated. the agreement is a compromise, because 195 countries were sitting around the table, so it could not have been otherwise. as with any compromise, there are positive aspects, which you and your colleagues have already mentioned, and negative aspects, on which i should like to focus. it is disappointing, for example, that the word decarbonisation disappears: our goal should be to stop emitting, but instead we're left with a definition that's a little ambiguous because it says to strike a balance between anthropogenic emissions and removals through greenhouse gas sources. we are talking about negative emissions technology, which would of course offset the positive emissions that are obviously left over. we've created an alibi, and it's an alibi that involves advanced technology and massive land use. in the agreement scenario these technologies are absolutely crucial, but at the moment they are in a very experimental state, very expensive and we don't know if they work, they don't work everywhere at the moment. now i ask you specifically, we would like to know what is the real capacity to implement these negative emission technologies on a very large scale and what are the measures that governments will be taking to facilitate this process? another point is the market, the ets system. it is a system which we believe is not working, it has failed to stimulate investment in new technologies to reduce emissions and this has led to fraud and financial speculation. the establishment of a global market, as called for in the paris agreement, is even more worrying because of the delay it would cause in the implementation of other policies which have had a more significant impact on the eu than the ets, such as incentive tariffs for renewable sources and energy saving and efficiency measures. finally, we must close the gap between our perception of reality and reality itself, or we will be too slow to make changes. article 12 of the agreement is good and we welcome it, but it must be implemented with determination and precise messages are needed that are proportionate to the problems. we need them now and above all they must be directed at citizens and local authorities, so that they too can work with commitment. we have to make it clear what we're playing at and that there's no more time to play.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is the best way to silence internal dissent? it is often just focusing on the external enemy, posing the total threat before which all other differences must be set aside, or else be considered traitors or terrorists. this is what the saudis must have been thinking about when they embarked on yet another proxy war against the iranians in yemen, who sponsor the sizeable houthi minority. but the coalition you're leading isn't going according to plan. it was meant to be a vehicle for the country's renewed military ambitions, but instead the conquests of aden and more recently dubab, crucial for the control of the bab el mandeb strait, have caused thousands of deaths, 60% due to indiscriminate aerial bombardment, many of whom were women and children, 3 million displaced people, 16 million yemenis without drinking water and without health care, and in the meantime the ceasefire fails and the start of peace talks is distant. what is even more serious is the very high number of human rights violations verified by the united nations organization itself: over 8,000 since april 2015, when the coalition was already under the aegis of un resolution 2216. secretary general ban ki moon is beginning to cast doubt on the saudi management. i honestly wonder what else needs to happen before an official inquiry is opened, the least that needs to be done. i would not like to think that all this distraction by so many european and american states, which also sometimes provide logistical support with intelligence, as happened in operation decisive storm, saudi arabia, is considered the price to be paid to avoid a total public attack by arabia itself on the iranian nuclear agreement. i ask the high representative, who is not here today, but i ask the minister not to spare any effort to revive the peace process, but to take a firm line in condemning the violence and demanding such an inquiry, because otherwise, by turning a blind eye to protect the useful, we will end up becoming blind to the indispensable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the gravity of the situation in yemen should require the closest possible cooperation between the humanitarian organizations and the parties involved. we are therefore extremely concerned that, in the midst of the humanitarian crisis which is devastating the population, we are also witnessing a clash between those who should be on the same side in finding solutions. we are concerned above all about what the population is experiencing: the world food programme has identified some 13 million people as being at risk of hunger, including 6 million in desperate need of food assistance. and the news we've collected says that the saudi-led coalition has caused more than 2,500 civilian casualties and bombed medicine depots and relief centers. i take advantage of this debate to renew my strong appeal for immediate diplomatic action to support the yemeni people and for the creation of a humanitarian corridor by imposing a ceasefire, giving new impetus to the peace negotiations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the 6,000 victims and the approximately 3,000 civilians involved are sufficient figures to show the seriousness of the situation in yemen, which is certainly not new, because yemen has always been in such difficult circumstances, but has become a real theatre of proxy war, and above all a wartime pastime for some of the great powers. great powers that we should always remember are our friends. because i think that many things have been proposed, some very nice statements have been made, we are in favour of the peace process, we are intervening, we are doing this, we are doing that, but i do not think that it is clear and firm to say that saudi arabia, which is the main actor in this conflict, is being sold arms by us. because they are being sold to them, for example, by the italian government, from which ships continue to leave with bombs, they are being sold to them by the united kingdom, they are being sold to them by the united states of america. and we are always a little too weak in following what our foreign policy leader says. perhaps in a case like this, if we want to be credible, we should be a little bit more rigid and stronger towards saudi arabia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in yemen is literally dramatic. more than 80% of yemenis are in need of humanitarian assistance. we're talking about 21 million people who are desperate. the situation is getting worse by the day, clinics, hospitals, shelters are being attacked. the situation is certainly no worse than in other parts of the middle east, for yemen cannot and must not be regarded as an isolated case of civil war, but must be seen in the context of a major conflict which affects virtually the whole region. yemen has been a pawn in the saudi-iranian dispute for years. the political and ideological clash between riyadh and tehran is also consuming sana'a, which is mainly the home of al qaeda. the recent designation of the un human rights representative in yemen as a person of interest is worrying. we must support the un for an immediate ceasefire. the country is ready to explode and we must nevertheless continue to fight terrorism and fundamentalism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in yemen is serious. almost two thirds of the population are in need of aid and assistance. the country is the battleground of what many analysts call a proxy war between saudi arabia and iran, which are vying on sectarian lines for regional hegemony. the situation is getting worse by the hour. the united nations has rated the ongoing humanitarian crisis as a level 3, the highest category. 80% of the population, 20 million people, are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. the bombs spare no one, and once again, the victims are unarmed civilians and aid workers. in the past few days, for the third time in a few months, a hospital supported by médecins sans frontières has been hit. the parties to the conflict should immediately refrain from targeting civilian infrastructure. the disregard for humanitarian law, in addition to causing innocent victims, is hampering efforts to bring about a political solution to the crisis. the european union must speak out loud and work with the international community to secure a political solution to the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have joined the call of the 1,820 turkish academics and i confirm that worldwide solidarity has been shown with the kurdish people, who have been hit by a deliberate and planned massacre. dozens of cities have been under permanent curfew for months, lacking food, medicine. they've attacked even unbarricaded cities. hundreds of dead are denied burial. the signatories of the appeal are considered accomplices of terrorism. the turkish constitution and international laws are being violated. the fight against terrorism is a pretext. the aim is to break up a people who only aspire to be recognized as part of their own country. thousands of turks are hoping for european and un mediation to reopen the talks between the government and kurdish rebels that were interrupted by erdogan, so that the killing stops immediately. in answer to a question i asked, mrs mogherini says that erdogan is our ally on migration and against isis. the argument doesn't last a minute. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i can confirm that contacts are being made not only with the high representative but also with the un and, above all, with the council of europe.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you, mr. president. i wanted to ask my colleague this: if he also believes that turkey is not behaving well, but it has not behaved well for a very long time, we are talking about centuries of turkish history. but why, if turkey is not behaving well, do you think it is right that europe has already given it 10 billion euros and is about to give it another 3 billion? i mean, if a guy misbehaves, is it right to give him money?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join my voice firmly with that of my socialist colleagues and others who have gone before me in denouncing the serious situation which has been going on for weeks in the south-east of turkey and which is taking us back to the dark years. what is happening cannot go unnoticed by europe and so far the calls for a ceasefire have not been heeded. we are now at the point where the violence is threatening to escalate into a full-blown civil war without any official investigation into the actions of the security forces, nor any attention from the international community, despite the number of displaced persons now being around 300 thousand. what we are asking the commission to do is to raise the issue at the forthcoming visit of high representative mogherini to ankara and more generally in all areas of eu-turkey relations, so that a ceasefire and a relaunch of the peace process can be achieved as soon as possible. the european parliament has always supported the kurdish peace process and we cannot now hide behind possible political conveniences dictated by turkey's role in the migration crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since december 2015 several areas in the south-east of turkey have been subject to a 24-hour curfew. more than 200,000 people live in the affected areas, many of whom are unable to obtain food or medical care. the series of arrests of academics who signed an appeal for peace and criticised the military operations in the south-east of the country is worrying. the signatories have received death threats on social media. yet, since the curfew was first enforced, hundreds of civilians have been killed. this is a further complication for a country, turkey, which is seeking to join the european union. i would like to conclude with the words of can dündar, the editor of a turkish opposition newspaper who is currently in prison, who asked italian prime minister matteo renzi not to ignore human rights violations in turkey in exchange for an agreement on migrants. i shall pass this on to the house.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is the cost and the price of avoiding the collapse of european hospitality? collapse of inadequate reception in the face of the migration crisis. it is paid in euros, in blood and in dignity: the three billion euros are paid by european taxpayers, in the hope that they will not be used for any other purpose than to help refugees. the blood is being shed in large quantities by the turkish kurds, who are discriminated against and harassed in every way, and who, as citizens of a major nato country, are uncomfortable kurds, unlike their syrian and iraqi cousins. the european institutions lose their dignity when they relaunch negotiations and relations with a government - and i am not talking about the people but about the government - which tramples on freedom of expression and association, which uses censorship and intimidation and which perpetrates a real racial attack against the kurdish minority. the words of the united nations, not mine. they're arresting journalists and university professors now. i do not think that these measures are proportionate, adequate or justifiable. how long are we going to tolerate them? as for... (the president interrupts the speaker)
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am grateful for this discussion, which is also very important for consolidating our opinion. it has been pointed out on several occasions that vice-president stylianidis and myself will be in ankara on monday for talks, a high level political dialogue. i assure you that we shall be dealing with this subject very intensively there. although there has been more talk today about continuing the accession negotiations, we are still at a very early stage here, as regards chapters 23 and 24, but we are in the preparatory phase. anyone who has been involved in this matter for some time knows very well that the preparation, but especially the actual conduct of these accession negotiations, is the greatest lever to influence things. the turkish government is also facing the litmus test of demonstrating that it is serious about upholding the rule of law in accordance with international european standards. this is then to be checked and tested. membership of the european union is only possible if we follow our convictions, principles and legal structures. the negotiations in this area are not negotiations to bring us closer together, but rather to adopt the european set of values and laws. that is the subject of the negotiations, that is what the negotiations can do. we have therefore certainly the strongest leverage at this stage. we should try this. i think we have no alternative in this direction if we want to help the kurdish population in turkey, for example. in this sense, i am also pleased that some turkish mayors are here, who have had talks with many of us today, and have also taken the opportunity to give us firsthand information. this is also very important in order to have a proper opinion. anyway, thank you for the discussion. and thank you for keeping this issue on the international agenda.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, i am grateful, on behalf of the high representative, for this opportunity to take stock of where we are concerning the association agreement and the implementation, as approved a year ago in this house, with ukraine, georgia, and moldova. for ukraine, the dcfta can bring significant economic benefits. ukrainian businesses will now receive stable and predictable preferential access to the largest market in the world, with 500 million customers, and eu enterprises will be able to benefit from easier access to the ukrainian market, so we must help ukraine develop the right conditions to encourage new business and investment relationships. over 20 meetings were held in trilateral format to address alleged russian concerns about the dcfta implementation. now ukraine faces a number of measures imposed by russia impeding trade and transit and will need our support here too. in 2016 we will be stepping up our efforts to support ukraine with more coordination with eu member states and greater visibility for our work. particularly on the implementation of the dcfta, we will build on current support programmes to improve the business climate, provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises, and help ukraine find new markets. ukraine needs to show it is open for business by aligning with eu standards in key sectors and taking decisive action on the rule of law. the support group for ukraine is playing a key role with the commission in all these areas. despite very challenging circumstances, the ukrainian government has made progress in implementing the association agreement. the national anti-corruption bureau and the new national police force have started to work. the selection process for an anti-corruption prosecutor has been completed. the government has also adopted a law on the natural gas market, which aims at bringing the gas sector of ukraine into line with the eu third energy package. these developments were welcomed at the second association council in brussels which was held on 7 december, but we should not underestimate the challenges ahead. the fight against corruption, reform of the judiciary and the public administration, as well as amendments to the constitution, particularly the second reading on decentralisation, will require courage and political will. shortly before christmas, we published our final report on ukraine’s implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan which concluded that, since the necessary process has been made and the number of additional commitments undertaken by the ukrainian leadership, a positive recommendation for visa-free travel could be made. we aim to present a legislative proposal to pave the way for visa liberalisation with ukraine soon. turning to moldova, the country has made great strides in concluding and implementing the association agreement and dcfta with the european union. since 1 january the region of transnistria also has the possibility to trade preferentially under the dcfta, making an important contribution to our conflict resolutions, but recent moldovan governments have not implemented important reforms. we are currently witnessing a highly unstable political situation, which is also an obstacle to the effective implementation of the association agreement and making full use of opportunities. the country is in great need of stable leadership, with the determination and energy required to address a number of problematic issues, including high-level corruption. this is necessary before moldova can proceed with other key reforms, in particular in the justice, financial and media sectors and the reform of the public administration. i have just received information that there was a positive vote on the new government and i hope this is now a stable one. i think we should support any government that is ready to undertake the necessary reforms, and it is also important to provide the necessary substantial support in terms of staff, human resources, but also, if needed, and this is definitely the case, in terms of money, provided that there is a positive assessment by the imf. finally, as regards georgia, impressive efforts have been made to implement the association agreement and the results are already visible, with strong growth in foreign direct investment. other indicators also show promising signs. the visa liberalisation action plan has proven to be an effective tool for promoting a range of reforms, but georgia has gone beyond the action plan benchmarks and taken further steps to reform the judiciary as well as the prosecutor’s office. in this regard, we also closely monitor the authorities to ensure that there is no unlawful conduct targeting the constitutional court and its personnel. the result was our positive report last december and with georgia, too, we will press ahead now with legislation to achieve full visa liberation as soon as possible. in summary, we can be happy that we have already come so far with our three association agreement partners, but we still have a long way to go and no room at all for complacency. i look forward to hearing the honourable members’ views during this debate today.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask my colleague if he is aware, since he has spoken about the new government in moldova, that the new government is headed by a party, the democratic party, linked to one of the most powerful and corrupt oligarchs in the country, who presents himself as european, but remains the oligarch linked to the mafia that he is.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine, georgia and moldova: how much effort is europe making to fuel a confrontation with russia that is going nowhere? the billions of euros the union has already paid in aid to ukraine were not enough. the free trade agreement also came into force on 1 january, while the association agreement has been in force for more than a year. but what has changed in ukraine since the start of the negotiations? has there been a reform of the state? has there been a real fight against corruption? i myself was in ukraine with my colleagues from the inta committee a few months ago and no one could explain to me why, in the country of the oligarchs par excellence, there is no credible law on conflict of interest. perhaps ukraine is following italy's example? but above all, there's one big absent in all this: russia is the only country that has done so. in any strategy for the former soviet countries, we cannot ignore the close cooperation we should have if we are to allow real and continuing economic development in the area. why then do the commission and, above all, the council continue to isolate her and us? why do we continue to go to direct confrontation, using georgia, moldova and ukraine, when we have seen that this approach leads to nothing? what really amazes me is that for years we have not paid any attention to these countries, and now we find that they are our dearest neighbours and that they need us. let's stop playing good samaritans and admit that what you're trying to do is create a buffer zone to isolate russia. the only way to do this, since the union has no foreign policy, is through association, partnership and free trade agreements. does that sound familiar? it's called the cold war!
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start by thanking you for your support for the continuing development of eu-kosovo relations. i also want to thank the foreign affairs and international trade committees and rapporteurs – ulrike lunacek in particular – for their support. tomorrow’s vote on the stabilisation and association agreement, renegotiated with kosovo, is testament to this focus. the saa is a milestone in eu-kosovo relations and of critical importance for the future of kosovo and the whole western balkans. the agreement is the first formal contractual relationship that ties the european union and kosovo together. it allows kosovo to join the rest of the region, sharing the benefits of deepening political and economic interdependence and sharing in the common european perspectives that make peace, stability and prosperity our joint goal. the agreement will help kosovo with much-needed economic reform underpinned by the rule of law. this should ensure a more predictable business environment, leading to much-needed growth and jobs. the agreement helps establish a stable legal framework and gradual approximation with eu laws and standards. it also promotes the free movement of goods, services and capital and envisages higher standards and increased choice and lower prices for kosovo citizens. it should stimulate kosovo’s progress in the area of transport and energy as it foresees the gradual integration into europe’s energy markets and the development of quality infrastructure. the agreement should also strengthen regional cooperation. under its terms, kosovo commits itself to a visible and sustainable improvement in relations with serbia. this is an essential principle of our agreement. the continuation of the eu-facilitated dialogue with serbia is therefore a legal obligation. kosovo will need to implement the agreements it has reached and continue to work towards further agreements. as we have seen over the last few months, this sometimes involves taking difficult decisions and the need for compromise. finally, i want to underline that the agreement includes provisions that commit kosovo to high international standards in terms of respect for democratic principles. this is of particular relevance to the challenges kosovo is facing at the moment. it means that the institutions set up to ensure democratic government and the rules that allow these institutions to do their work should be respected. it also means there can be no obstruction to free and transparent political discourse. obstruction and violence have no place in a democratic system. allow me to use this opportunity to call on kosovo’s politicians to engage in a free political exchange to solve the differences in a way that is worthy of the country’s european perspective: without obstructions, without violence and without threats and intimidation. allow me to thank you once more for your support, and i look forward to the debate.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is an agreement, as i have said, which establishes contractual relations guaranteeing greater political dialogue, further trade integration and new forms of cooperation in the various fields. of course, this agreement is important but it is not conclusive. the situation in kosovo remains very problematic, as we have seen in the recent serious demonstrations, and the need for democratic consolidation of kosovo's institutional structures is a key issue to ensure a positive outlook for the country and the balkan region. we need it especially at the present stage, which is characterized by enormous problems, such as migration, which make the balkan region and kosovo an extremely delicate crossroads on which we must show great attention because it is clear that it can also be the harbinger of great problems for the european union. for these reasons, while giving our full support to the association and stabilisation agreement, we also believe it is useful to invite the european commission to accompany kosovo towards more advanced objectives. we need this country to seriously embark on the road of reform and democratic consolidation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, numerous reports indicate that violence against religious minorities in iraq and syria, christians, yazidis, turkmen and other small communities, has increased dramatically in areas under the control of the islamic state. in the territories occupied by isis, it is endangering the very existence of minorities, who have become victims of mass murder, rape, slavery and organ trafficking. to protect their lives and not have to convert to islam those who manage to avoid the mass killings decide to flee. the mass killings and attempted escape are putting the most vulnerable groups at risk of extermination and i do not think it is wrong to use this term, even with the consequences it may have on the level of international law. the european union must continue to condemn the human rights violations committed by the islamic state against the iraqi and syrian religious minorities. the commission should also step up its humanitarian response to the crisis and help raise awareness of the problem. as you said, mrs mogherini, just as with migration processes, violence against religious minorities can be adequately addressed if the conflicts which have opened up in the middle east region are given a united and unambiguous response and a joint commitment by the european union and its member states. in the meantime, however, everything possible should be done to really defend minorities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are witnessing today in the territories occupied by daesh a series of systematic mass murders and persecutions, but for the christian communities in syria, iraq, genghis and other countries this is a real crime of genocide, according to the un definition, because christians are the most persecuted religious group, as has been mentioned, with almost 100 000 victims every year and the flight of millions of christians from some african and middle eastern countries. we must recognize this officially at the un and demand consistency from the international community. there is a tragic consistency between these mass killings and the systematic assault by daesh terrorists against symbols of cultural and religious heritage in syria and iraq. the last is the monastery of st. elijah in mosul, which represents a real, as has been said, cultural genocide. i appreciate, dear representative mogherini, your strong and consistent commitment to concrete humanitarian aid, to the dialogue you are promoting, to prevention and to the possible - how to say - restoration of peaceful conditions, but i think we must defend more, everywhere, the right to religion and the right to worship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the forecasts tell us that by 2020 there will be no more christians in iraq and syria, and no more yazidis. we cannot remain indifferent to what is happening, and former us secretary of state hillary clinton is right when she speaks of genuine genocide. we cannot, as europe, not be associated with the position of one of the great protagonists of american politics, probably the future president of the united states. europe has a duty to make its voice heard. i welcome all humanitarian initiatives, all support for those who are suffering at this moment, all political initiatives, but europe must make its voice heard in a strong way. violence is met with violence! it's about defending our values! europe exists because it believes in the centrality of the person, in religious freedom, in freedom of expression. it is the treaty that obliges us to defend our values beyond the union's borders. and defending religious freedom, calling the persecution of christians and yazidis in that part of the world genocide every day, must be a priority, because, i repeat, the defence of the values on which our union is founded is at stake. if we give up defending values, we shall have a europe that is weaker and weaker and that is limited to banking and little else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognize that today the forms of islamic totalitarianism have taken over. in many places around the world christians face the choice of converting, being put to death, or fleeing. in syria alone, 700,000 christians have fled their country. that means 56% of christians have left syria and in iraq too more than half have left. only small and few data because all the data is unanimous in telling us that christians are the most persecuted community in the world. in some regions, as has already been mentioned, even un aid does not reach christians because the refugee camps, where un aid is, are avoided by christians who are afraid to go even to un-run refugee camps. we have all been shocked by the images of the beheading of coptic christians by isis, but we continue to underestimate this genocide. what should we call him? what do you call a persecution of such a scale, for which, in bosnia, for example, the number of christians has fallen by 92.2% in ten years since 1991? and you see that genocide - to raise the issue is not to raise a linguistic issue - it has already been said, but above all by talking about genocide we insert the phenomenon in a stronger legal framework, which provides for a much stronger international action strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the french government's request to activate the mutual assistance clause provided for in article 42 (7) is acceptable, at least in principle, in view of the tragic events in paris, but it is certainly a missed opportunity and perhaps a legal error. in this respect, article 222, which expressly regulates the case where a member state is the victim of a terrorist attack, seemed and certainly seems more correct to invoke. isis cannot consider itself a state, which is the only entity that can carry out an armed attack unless it is legitimate. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what has happened is that france has unilaterally started bombing syria and the various european states have been called on individually to help. europe, on the other hand, was not involved, and was not able to give a clear and coordinated response. a missed opportunity to demonstrate european unity, especially in the fight against terrorism.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative, well, today's debate gives us an opportunity to take stock of the respect for human rights in the world and it is a pity that we are so few, because we could have spoken about the responsibilities we have to take on as europeans. the resolution is positive and we will support it, and it contains our observations on the protection of indigenous peoples and the fight against the criminal phenomenon of land grabbing. we are also happy about the recognition of the right to a decent economic and social situation. we are very concerned, however, that the members of the council are often chosen from among the countries which are the worst violators of fundamental rights, such as china, russia, saudi arabia and ethiopia. the threat to fundamental rights is widespread and not limited to the most serious acts of terrorism and related phenomena. it is enough to think of the increase in executions, the attacks on international workers and activists, the arrests of political opponents, the very serious violations against migrants at all stages of their journey, the effects of climate change, which are covered in this resolution. with this resolution we call on the human rights council and the united nations to be more and more up to the task entrusted to them every day, hoping that 2016 will be a better year than 2015.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, thank you for your words and for the effort you share with us, members of the european parliament, to deal with the great tragedy of terrorist violence in europe, the middle east, africa and many other parts of the world with intelligence, dignity and foresight. the news these days is not encouraging, and all the more reason for us to be able to say, as the european parliament, that the action we are trying to take in the european union, both on the policies of handling pnr data and in the attempt to share a reasonable but firm policy of defence of our continent, is going in the right direction. but it's not enough. we see it: the fronts on which our weakness, our inevitable weakness, is expressed are many, many, and they also have to do with the issue of immigration. i agree with those who, rightly, even during this debate, have decided to deny a causal link between immigration and terrorism. it is wrong to associate the two phenomena in a generic way, but it is equally wrong to deny that the two phenomena can have common causes. it is wrong to think that if islamic areas normally produce terrorist phenomena such as those which have dramatically affected our continent, it is wrong to believe that that front, where we often find men who use the koran as a breviary to administer violence, can be left in a condition to continue to do so. we must stop thinking that we can avoid bringing democracy to countries where it does not exist, because the absence of democracy and the absence of civilization that our christian tradition has handed down to us are the first cause of these terrorist phenomena.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the terrorist threat must not lead to a high price being paid in terms of the restriction of freedoms and rights in order to achieve greater security from threats, especially from within europe and not just from outside its borders. although the responsibility for combating this phenomenon lies primarily with the member states, the european union can make a significant contribution. it is therefore necessary to ensure an efficient and coordinated exchange of information and to improve the dialogue between the national databases and intelligence services, otherwise the alternative is what is happening, namely the recourse to the reintroduction of internal border controls by the member states. in short, we need to improve the use of the tools we already have and not keep collecting more and more data. terrorist organisations fight against this by political isolation, by identifying and cutting off their funding and data supply channels. these results are not impossible to achieve, but only require the political will to achieve them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank those who represent the dutch government today. i am sorry and now i am going to get angry, because there are 751 in this chamber, 751, there will be 30 of us in here, there are more officials than deputies! and this is europe trying to solve problems, talking about an issue as important as terrorism? i am against this europe, but how can there be such a europe? what a shame. what do we say to the people of europe? when bombs go off, everybody cries like crocodiles! what happened in paris, what happened in london, in madrid and what happened in new york. what do we say? yes, there are islamists, there is terrorism! what is this shame? is this the europe that wants to fight? is this the europe that wants to defend europeans? this is zombie europe! they're with the zombies! because those in charge have bodyguards, they have armored cars, they have everything, and they will never attack them! it's the people who are being attacked and what do we say? thanks to islam. we are giving billions and billions to turkey and we want it to be part of europe. 90% of turkey is muslim. i am not against islamists, we need something else, but we are europeans, we are westerners, let's show that we have balls! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. to all those who applaud, i say go look at my data: they are sixteenth in the 751 members by production, by attendance, by votes. so you don't have to tell me this stuff here, because i come here, i work, i get busy, i'm in 16th place and i'm the mayor. i don't know what you do from morning till night, but i know what i do. you got it? (the president agreed to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i was not angry with you, because those who are here are obviously not in the same position as i was, we would miss them! but i am angry with those who govern this europe, who will certainly never be touched, who will certainly not have wives who touch their buttocks, perhaps some islamists like in cologne, or rape them, these things do not exist. they're not here. sure, and all of you applauding here, like four little monkeys, like that, but get busy, go around and work, don't stand here like a couple of bamba!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, opening negotiations for a modern, balanced and comprehensive agreement with countries such as new zealand and australia is certainly one of the steps the union will have to take to bring european markets closer to those of the countries which have concluded the trans-pacific agreement. these are certainly interesting markets for our investments and exports, but they also conceal possible threats. i am referring to the agricultural sector, as is the case with your colleague, which unfortunately once again risks being a bargaining chip in our geopolitical choices. we cannot have an agreement without also taking due account of the specificities and problems of the dairy sector, which is already heavily affected by the russian embargo and is being hampered by the discussions on geographical indications in agreements such as ttip. we therefore need clarity on this area, the exclusion of the most sensitive areas from the agreements and maximum transparency in the negotiations. the lesson of ttip is that trade policy choices must take account of the demands of the people and we will ensure that the people's voice is heard in this process.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, australia and new zealand are only geographically distant from the european union, we share the same democratic values and common interests on fundamental issues. the european union is a member of the european union, and its member states are also members of the european union. the australian and new zealand delegation of the european parliament, in which i have the honour of participating, will be visiting australia in february. we will meet not only the highest officials in the institutions, but also representatives of the economic world. it is therefore good to hear that the commission intends to open free trade agreements, and hence to open negotiations, with these two countries. the launch of modern, high-quality and balanced agreements which take account of the sensitivity of certain sectors, starting with agriculture, including geographical indications, could be an opportunity to resolve unresolved issues, to strengthen europe's geopolitical role in the asia-pacific region and, above all, to offer important opportunities for european companies, with positive consequences for the citizens of the union, including in terms of growth and employment, as has been rightly emphasised.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, australia and new zealand share democratic values and interests and have the same views on global issues of the utmost importance, such as human rights, security, development and environmental protection. it is therefore not clear why australia and new zealand remain two of the few members of the world trade organisation with which the european union has no preferential reciprocal market access agreement and no negotiations under way to that effect. i believe that the conclusion of ambitious agreements with countries such as australia and new zealand is essential, as it can allow the european union and its member states to integrate further into the asia-pacific value chain. i therefore believe that the commission must commit itself to launching negotiations as soon as possible and to promoting the conclusion of modern, innovative and transparent free trade and preferential access agreements with neighbouring partners such as australia and new zealand, two modern, advanced countries with some of the most advanced democratic systems in the world.
in writing. we welcome the opening of negotiations with australia and new zealand for the definition of a trade agreement aimed at creating a free trade area. the two countries are close allies of the european union and share the same approach to major global issues. the aim, in line with european trade policy, is to foster economic growth while helping to define the rules of the great playing field of globalisation. the close proximity of values, for example in the exchange of data, the complementarity, particularly strong in the agricultural field because of the different succession of seasons, and the small volume of trade ensure a low level of risk for the european manufacturing sector. in order to ensure the greatest possible degree of certainty, it will in any case be important for the commission to prepare an impact study, with particular reference to the dairy and meat markets, and to include safeguard clauses. the negotiations are also consistent with the strategy of renewed attention to asia-pacific trading partners. the two countries have very close links with the emerging economies in the region, such as china and asean, and could therefore represent a potential port of entry to these dynamic markets.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start with another figure, the figure for inadmissible petitions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to petition is respected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the right to petition is respected. the aim is clearly to be able to solve the problems which are highlighted and expressed by the territories, and we should therefore be able to give effective answers from the point of view of the community institutions. i also stress that the portal is unfortunately not working yet and that the other important instrument that has been introduced, the ice, the european citizens' initiative, has unfortunately been nothing but a great deception for european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on petitions plays a key role in bringing citizens closer to the european institutions. it is the front office of parliament, it is the peti committee that is helping to make parliament a truly democratic institution. we know how cold and distant the european union is perceived to be and how too often citizens have the impression that they have a voice only during elections, but its work is not only for the citizens, it is also fundamental for us. it is by looking at the issues often raised by petitions that we understand where and in what the european union needs to change. their demands, their petitions, must become our priorities. but for the same reason it is unacceptable that these should be examined with considerable delay, sometimes even a year after they were sent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
it was so clear. the vote is closed.
that concludes the voting.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the high representative, federica mogherini, has said, the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo marks the beginning of a new phase in relations between the 28 member states and kosovo. the agreement is an important contribution to stability and prosperity in the region and will help to undertake the necessary reforms that create the conditions for stable and sustainable growth, to implement the necessary reforms and to create trade and investment opportunities. the kosovo government continues to work on the reform process which will enable the country to modernise, grow economically and competitively and, as a result, provide a better future for its citizens. kosovo still faces many challenges, and i hope that the government will commit itself to making the necessary and courageous choices to continue the negotiations with the european union successfully.
in writing. ‒ since 2000, kosovo has enjoyed preferential trade arrangements with the eu, providing duty-free and quota-free access to the european market, except for certain agricultural and fishery products. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement establishes new contractual relations that can strengthen political dialogue between the institutions and improve integration and trade cooperation. the agreement represents a first step towards the formal and gradual accession process of the republic of kosovo, providing, inter alia, new opportunities for investment, growth and business development. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the balkan region is a key part of european history, culture and civilization. after a terrible season of war and violence, many countries in this part of europe have been welcomed into the great political and economic project of the european union. kosovo, which declared independence in 2008, has embarked on a path of opening up, consolidation of democratic institutions and affirmation of civil rights that has yet to be fully realized. i voted in favour of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement because i believe it is an important step towards strengthening political dialogue and establishing closer trade relations. the economic and social development of the country can only be achieved through a complete stabilisation of the whole region, which can also be achieved through forms of cooperation with the union in the field of justice and home affairs. europe has already shown great concern for the countries bordering on it, and with this text it is undertaking to continue important work in this direction. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the lunacek report is unbalanced and not acceptable, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement represents an important step towards kosovo's accession to the european union and an important tool for economic growth and stability for a young nation like kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the strengthening of relations with kosovo and the privileged trade relationship aimed at the region's inclusion in the european free trade area is instrumental to the region's inclusion in the european system. only a fully european kosovo will be able to develop economically and strengthen culturally, making its democratic institutions and civil rights practices more solid. the european union must take responsibility for protecting and guiding its neighbourhood towards development and democracy, with particular regard to those territories which have experienced a troubled, suffering and complex history such as kosovo over the last thirty years. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa) is a key point in the process of normalising relations in the area and overcoming the regional isolation of the former yugoslav territories, to which we must all contribute, both in european and in the home countries.
in writing. - i vote against. the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) is a first step towards the formal eu accession process and kosovo's european integration path. parliament looks forward to further strengthening relations between the republic of kosovo and the european union, including through the rapid introduction of visa-free travel for kosovo citizens. parliament also called on the council to adopt a decision to sign and conclude the framework agreement on kosovo's participation in eu programmes, which will strengthen cooperation between kosovo and the eu in a number of areas. those programmes should focus on specific areas corresponding to the commitments undertaken by kosovo in its european path and be implemented in a transparent manner and without delay.
in writing. ‒ this is a single vote to approve the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. the agreement, which helps improve political dialogue and open trade between the eu and kosovo, was signed in october 2015 by the eu's foreign policy chief, federica mogherini, and ratified by kosovo's national parliament last november. all matters dealt with in this agreement fall within the eu's competence. this makes it an 'eu only' agreement: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. the european parliament cannot take a position on the text of the agreement but can only express a favourable or unfavourable opinion. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part. the agreement establishes contractual relations involving enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation in the fields of human rights, education, the environment, energy, justice and home affairs, and aims to create a free trade area. the asa is a very important first step towards the formal eu accession process and the european integration path of the republic of kosovo, and is expected to be strengthened through the introduction of the visa-free regime for kosovo citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft decision because i believe that a good neighbourhood policy is essential to prevent many problems, not just a few. it is no coincidence that the migratory flows we are witnessing today are the result of a neighbourhood policy, and a wider foreign policy, which has been flooded on all sides. this agreement with kosovo is a major boost to the modernisation and greater interoperability of the infrastructure, particularly legal infrastructure, which can allow our companies to do business there. moreover, the ultimate aim of these steps is to reduce poverty in kosovo, with the consequence of importing less crime from there and creating an additional outlet market for our products. it's a win-win situation.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a free trade area between the eu and kosovo is important as trade relations with kosovo, thanks to the facilitations provided by the tariff reduction, have already generated a considerable surplus for the union since 2014. i am therefore in favour of the conclusion of the stabilisation agreement with kosovo, as this would only further improve relations between the two trading partners. the results will be positive for cooperation and will provide a solid basis for the definition of reforms in that country with a view to approximating legislation in the interests not only of economic trade but also of social and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european union and kosovo is part of the wider context of the close relations between the european union and the western balkans. it is the last to be concluded with the western balkan countries and the first between the european union and kosovo, and will certainly have the merit of opening a new phase in relations between the two parties. i am very pleased that the agreement contains, among other things, provisions on the promotion of european standards in the fields of competition, procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, which are essential elements of the model of our internal market, in the wider perspective of a path of european integration. in particular, i hope that the cooperation policies included in the agreement, covering various policy areas and in the framework of the progressive establishment of a free trade area, will be able to encourage and facilitate the socioeconomic development of the region, promoting its stability. the aim is to further strengthen and extend relations between the european union and kosovo, while respecting the position of the member states on kosovo's status. i therefore voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation agreement (saa) between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part. i believe that this agreement represents a key step in the process of stabilising the country, which is essential for the full recognition of the sovereignty of the young republic and for its full integration into the european system, and it lays an important foundation for formal accession to the european union. i also believe that the saa sets important conditions for closer cooperation between the eu and the republic of kosovo in the fields of education, the environment, culture and the fight against organised crime, and i hope that this cooperation will develop, mature over time and cover wider and different areas of action.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa) is a key document in the stabilisation and association process. it is an important first step towards the formal eu accession process and the republic of kosovo's european integration path. it establishes closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo is an important step towards bringing kosovo closer to the eu. i hope that this agreement will not only bring greater stability to our balkan neighbour, but also closer trade relations.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement can, in my view, generate a wide range of opportunities for trade and investment. it will also be able to create cooperation in a wide range of areas, ranging from education to employment and energy, from the environment to justice and home affairs. for these reasons, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) establishes contractual relations that provide for enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers a number of areas, such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. the national assembly of the republic of kosovo ratified the stabilisation and association agreement in a short time, on 2 november 2015. the conclusion of the approval procedure currently under way in the european parliament will allow the entry into force of the saa. parliament urged the five remaining member states to proceed with the recognition of the republic of kosovo, which would further facilitate the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which represents a very important first step for the republic of kosovo towards the formal process of eu accession and the path of european integration.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was called upon to ratify the agreement with kosovo establishing contractual relations involving enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. in particular, the agreement promotes respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights and also includes provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection and aims to create a free trade area. it is important to establish, maintain and improve relations between the european union and the neighbourhood countries both for the economic opportunity they represent and for the contribution they make to the stabilisation and control of such strategic areas.
in writing. ‒ with the recommendation voted on today, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo. since declaring independence from serbia in february 2008, kosovo has implemented a series of economic and political reforms in order to meet the criteria for membership of the european union. the agreement, which aims to strengthen political dialogue and to establish new forms of cooperation and trade, will bring kosovo numerous economic and social benefits, while strengthening good governance through the application of european standards and approximation to eu legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation, because i believe that the european integration of this country will make a significant contribution to the stability of the balkan region, to the benefit of europe's security and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the signing of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement is a very positive development and an important step towards kosovo's rapprochement with the european union. it is necessary that kosovo continues to pursue the reform process, and that the european institutions support this process. the political and economic stabilisation of the balkans is of paramount importance to the eu. we must ensure that this is done properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo because i firmly believe in the attraction of the european union as a driving force for internal change. the agreement is the first formal step in the accession process, but its impact will be limited if it is not accompanied by tangible benefits for kosovars, in particular visa liberalisation to the eu.
in writing. ‒ we have today approved the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. this type of agreement had already been concluded with all the balkan countries except, specifically, kosovo, for problems mainly related to its status and the resulting international recognition. the agreement is seen as a first step in the process of european integration of the balkan countries as it provides for a strengthened political dialogue, the start of kosovo's trade integration, but it does not establish a free trade area and cooperation at different levels and in different union programmes. the procedure could not be concluded without the formal approval of parliament, which, however, could not intervene in the text of the agreement but merely expressed its opinion.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to appoint members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector. following the emissions scandals involving some european car manufacturers, the european parliament decided to carry out an inquiry to identify shortcomings and omissions in the application of eu emissions legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nomination of the proposed members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector set up by the european parliament at its plenary session last december.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the recent scandals in the automotive sector, i welcome the establishment of a committee of inquiry to clarify the violations of eu rules that have occurred in the field of vehicle emission measurement. the commission's investigation over the next 12 months will seek to identify the responsibilities involved and any omissions that have allowed the failure to implement existing legislation.
in writing. - i vote for it. this is the composition of the emis committee of inquiry, set up at its december i session.
in writing. ‒ following the discovery in the us that the volkswagen group used software to reduce nox emissions during testing, we voted a resolution last october calling for a thorough investigation into the role and responsibilities of the european commission and the member states, asking them to disclose what they knew about these violations and what actions were taken subsequently. i therefore voted with the whole m5s europe delegation in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. ‒ the issue of emissions in the automotive sector leaves me, as a politician, with a big doubt: is it fraud, how will the courts find out, or were the rules too permissive? it is therefore right that a committee of inquiry be set up to make clear the names of those responsible. i have serious doubts about the responsibilities of the european political level, because the then commissioner for industry, antonio tajani, asked for independent studies and, in view of the discrepancy with what was stated by the car manufacturers, he put on the calendar a legislative reform of the sector in order to review the role and responsibilities of the national agencies, but the eu could not do more. the composition of this committee, which is the subject of my vote, faithfully reflects the composition of parliament and therefore finds my approval. good work to the colleagues who will be part of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector, which will present a first report within six months and a final report within 12 months of the start of its work.
in writing. ‒ air pollution, as we know, is a global problem today and is a growing phenomenon, especially in large urban areas. as a member of the envi parliamentary committee and as a person who is sensitive to environmental issues, i wish all the members of this committee a good job so that you can make continuous improvements in this area. i would vote in favour.
in writing. at the strong urging of the m5s, the european parliament set up a special committee to investigate the volkswagen scandal. as an alternate member of this committee, my task will be to bring to light information and contradictions that will emerge in the coming months during the work. it will be essential to have access to all the documentation needed to understand how much the european commission and the member states were aware of the manipulations made on vehicles by the car manufacturer in order to circumvent the emission control regulations. the creation of this committee is a battle won against the strong opposition of the people's party, which would have preferred to let the scandal surrounding the german car manufacturer fall into oblivion. the scandal is that member states, without opposition from the commission, have introduced correction factors which make it legal to double emissions until 2018 and 1.5 times the limits for the following years. the italian government has even proposed to legalize emissions at least 300% above the limits. the omen is not good. we in m5s on this committee want to make clear the real responsibilities for these frauds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the association and free trade agreements signed between the european union and georgia, moldova and ukraine are a recognition of the considerable progress made by these countries and the logical and natural outcome of a process which began more than 20 years ago. these agreements are in everyone's interest and must also be a reference point in our eastern partnership policy. our partners must therefore continue on the path of reforms to consolidate the rule of law and good governance and to give a boost to economic growth in the region. the european union must work to keep the political will alive within these countries and to foster effective coordination within each of the partner governments in order to build a national consensus in favour of the measures needed to ensure real and sustainable transformation. the association agreement cannot, however, replace political momentum and leadership within these countries. the key issues to be addressed to make the reform process an irreversible success include the reform of the judicial systems and the improvement of efficiency and transparency in the public administration.
in writing. ‒ the eastern partnership is without doubt one of the most important challenges for the future of europe. since the collapse of the ussr, the union has shown a constant commitment to ensuring that the countries of the east have a firm foothold in the group of democratic countries. this continuous process is now developing further with the association and free trade agreements between the eu and georgia, moldova and ukraine. i support this resolution because i believe it is essential to continue along the path of a european neighbourhood policy based on the promotion of good governance, the consolidation of the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. europe's efforts should be directed in particular towards developing the social dimension of the partnership, and promoting compliance with the commitments made by these countries on labour and the environment. the european aspirations of the states must be protected, and this is why we must oppose the actions taken by russia to prevent the establishment of closer relations between the eu, moldova, ukraine and georgia. finally, the agreements also represent a major opportunity for improving judicial systems and combating corruption and organised crime. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg is balanced and has very much in common with the others, so i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine represent important steps forward towards the economic integration of these three countries with the european market and that their ratification can create important opportunities for economic growth both for the countries concerned and for the union.
in writing. ‒ freedom of trade and economic investment is important for the civil, economic and technological progress of individual states and for the well-being of their citizens, but this progress cannot be real and lasting unless accompanied by the strengthening of democracy, the protection of freedom of speech, of participation in political and social life and respect for civil and human rights. the association and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine are to be supported as they are fundamental to the successful pursuit by the contracting countries of their path to political independence, civil and democratic progress and economic development.
in writing. - i vote against. it is not surprising that the gue group's amendments have received a great deal of positive feedback. the text of the joint resolution of the other groups is very much to be criticized. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the association agreement with these areas will not only fail to bring economic and political results, but will contribute to making even more unstable a geographical area of historic russian influence, where the european institutions are making very serious mistakes. one hopes from the non-irreversible consequences. respect for political, social and human rights, which is a precondition for all agreements, is not respected in the countries with which the eu has established this type of political and commercial relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on the comprehensive and enhanced free trade and association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the text over-praises both the commission's work and the efforts made by these countries in their constitutional and democratic reforms. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment. i also believe that free trade agreements with these areas will not only fail to produce the desired economic and political results, but will also contribute to fuelling a confrontation with russia which is extremely damaging to our businesses. it is unthinkable to conclude agreements with the former soviet countries while continuing to exclude cooperation with russia.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the motions for resolutions on the association and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. i believe that the implementation of the agendas for these agreements should not be considered a top priority for the union. such agreements could have a negative impact on the union's economy but also on social issues such as unemployment and immigration.
in writing. ‒ as chairman of the economic integration committee of the euronest parliamentary assembly, i could not help but vote in favour of these agreements, which are one of the steps on a long journey to bring these countries closer to europe politically. it is essential to have reliable and stable neighbours, who do not export crime and political tensions but who can import our goods. i went to moldova to monitor the 2014 political elections, and i found a country that really needs us. there is still a long way to go, but i am glad that this parliament can confirm its will to go forward.
in writing. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukraine are countries at an early stage of possible future association with the european union, although unfortunately the very precarious situation, political struggle and lack of reforms are holding the whole region back. i felt i had to vote in favour because i believe it is necessary to continue to give strong support to the reform programme, particularly in the areas of justice, the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime, as an important prerequisite for the socioeconomic development of the three countries of association.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the comprehensive and enhanced association and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. the positive response to european programmes and the considerable increase in trade so far confirm that, despite recent developments in the three countries, we must continue to give strong support to their journey towards ever closer ties with the european union, both commercially and politically. the main objective of these agreements is to help the reform process in various areas by further promoting its stabilisation. the resolution stresses the need to push for the strengthening of the rule of law and the fight against corruption, but above all to act so that the partners strengthen their will to bring about real structural changes, which are primarily for the benefit of the living conditions of the citizens. it will therefore be important to continue monitoring the progress of reforms and the full implementation of the association and free trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the joint motion for a resolution tabled under rule 123 of the regulation on comprehensive and enhanced association and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. i believe that in recent years these countries have made important efforts towards building a path of political and economic integration with the european union, demonstrating their willingness to implement ambitious reforms in the field of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. i agree with the reference to the need to ensure the full territorial integrity and national sovereignty of these countries, especially in view of the fact that the states concerned have democratically chosen to establish closer relations with the eu and that this free choice cannot be subject to pressure from third countries. finally, i welcome the participation of georgia, moldova and ukraine in eu programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020 and erasmus plus, which will offer many young people, entrepreneurs and researchers the opportunity to get to know the eu more closely and to learn european best practice.
in writing. ‒ i would first like to express my support for the efforts already made by the institutions of these countries. whereas the opening up of new markets is a growth factor for our economies and whereas the european union is one of the world's most open economies. it is in our interest to lead georgia, moldova and ukraine on a path towards european integration. for these reasons and in the hope of continuing progress towards globalisation, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ sudden changes of government, cases of selective justice, restrictions on freedom of expression are some of the problems these countries still have to face. the road ahead is long and in order not to disappoint the expectations of the citizens of these countries and those of europe, the european commission must continue to guarantee its support for the implementation of the reforms envisaged by the association and free trade agreements voted on today.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. i believe that it is not only a deliberate distortion of reality, but also a violation of the eu's interests. the three association agreements have severed the historical links between the economies of moldova, ukraine and georgia and the russian economy: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, which have been seen as an attempt to strangle russia economically and have triggered sanctions and counter-sanctions that are seriously damaging to the eu and italy. who benefits from russia's economic strangulation? certainly not the eu, which would benefit from having peaceful relations with everyone. i find it simply outrageous that the house has rejected amendment no 14, which at least called for goods produced in moldova, ukraine and georgia exploiting child labour or trampling on human rights not to be allowed into the eu. this parliament, which has so often been outraged by human rights violations, is therefore prepared to make respect for human rights conditional on an association agreement that will satisfy the eu's bulimia of expansion towards the east. this means that for the majority of the european parliament respect for human rights is no longer a value but a mere tool of political rhetoric. it is a deeply sad but unfortunately unavoidable and even necessary observation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the full implementation of the association agreements, which emphasise a stronger social dimension in the partnership. the eu must promote greater efforts by the three governments concerned in the areas of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the consolidation of democracy.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the european parliament adopted a resolution recommending that georgia, moldova and ukraine continue and, where possible, intensify reforms and efforts linked to the association and free trade agreements that these countries have signed with the union. i think the role of the european commission is particularly important, since it must monitor implementation in the associated countries and at the same time provide adequate financial and technical assistance. i fully recognize the resolution adopted today. i fully agree with the content of the report, particularly where it emphasizes that if georgia, moldova and ukraine are to benefit fully from their association agreements, they must present concrete reform programmes to combat corruption, consolidate the rule of law and promote social rights for their citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity, mutual aid and assistance between the member states are among the founding values of the european union. the full and unanimous support which all the member states have expressed to france and their readiness to provide all the necessary aid and assistance following the invoking of the mutual defence clause by france itself after the paris attacks should therefore be welcomed. however, as the report indicates, there are currently no practical arrangements to ensure an effective response in the event that a member state invokes the mutual defence clause. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, is therefore working to further define the guidelines and practical arrangements for the future activation of the mutual defence clause, in order to ensure a swift decision in the council in support of the member state under attack. i very much hope that the present activation of the clause will act as a catalyst to exploit the potential of all the provisions of the treaty on security and defence and, above all, that it will pave the way for a common foreign policy of the european union in syria and the middle east, where an integrated european approach is currently lacking.
in writing. ‒ the serious terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015 prompted the french government to invoke the defence clause in article 42 (7) teu. for the first time in the history of the union, a member state has asked for this mechanism to be activated, requesting help and assistance from other states following an aggression. the unanimous acceptance of the position expressed by the president of the french republic was a turning point in the union's defence policy. i voted in favour of the resolution on the mutual defence clause because i believe that it is a starting point for urging the council and the member states to start fully implementing the security and defence architecture provided for in the treaties. after the failure of the ecsc in 1954, european countries did not commit themselves sufficiently to developing a defence system capable of achieving ambitious objectives, but the treaty of lisbon opened the way to permanent structured cooperation in defence. the great challenges of our time can only be met by an eu united in its foreign policy and equipped with the tools to intervene in different contexts.
in writing. ‒ it is time for the eu to set out clear and firm guidelines on the 'mutual defence clause' to ensure an effective response should a member state invoke its application, as president hollande did after the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november. all european countries must make the maximum effort to combat terrorism and a more rigorous approach must be taken at both national and union level. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, following the activation of the mutual defence clause under article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, it is important that the member states provide all the necessary assistance to france and that, at the same time, efforts are made to prepare instruments to make the effective application of the measures provided for in the clause more effective and efficient.
in writing. - i vote for it. the mutual defense clause was invoked by hollande (and for the first time in europe) on 13 november 2015 following the paris attacks. the resolution condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks perpetrated by isis and expresses concern that the management of aid and assistance under the mutual defence clause on a bilateral basis as in this case will not be possible for all member states; the european council therefore calls on the european council to give impetus to the development of this clause and urges it to develop the facilitating role of the relevant eu institutions. it therefore called on all european countries to commit themselves to the fight against terrorism and to adopt a rigorous approach at both national and non-national level. it calls for appropriate measures to control the movement of weapons, explosives and suspicious persons. it urges the member states to set up a structured system for information sharing and operational cooperation for border management, police and other law enforcement agencies, as well as the sharing of national databases.
in writing. ‒ the resolution expresses concern at france's decision to activate the mutual defence clause in article 42 (7) teu following the tragic events in paris on 13 november. despite some positive remarks in the text, i think that there is too much leniency in the approach to the missed opportunity to use a clause that was much more suited to the situation in question. it seemed more appropriate to invoke article 222 tfeu, which governs the case where a member state is the victim of a terrorist attack. the use of article 42 (7) teu, which is applicable where a member state is the victim of an armed attack, not only risks implicitly recognising daesh as a state but also confirms the primacy of the intergovernmental approach over the community approach. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the fight against international terrorism is one of the union's priorities and that only with an autonomous security and defence capability will the eu be able to address the enormous threats and challenges to internal and external security. following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015, the french government officially invoked the mutual defence clause referred to in article 42 (7) teu. the eu member states are obliged to provide aid and assistance to france by all means in their power, in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations. parliament believes that the present case should act as a catalyst for in-depth political discussions on the multidimensional nature of european security and defence; calls on all member states to maintain their unconditional and lasting support and to continue to provide their contributions for as long as necessary. the legislator stresses a holistic approach to deradicalization, including national efforts to address youth, prevent violent extremism and combat terrorism, aimed at strengthening social cohesion and preventing crime.
in writing. ‒ this clause is a very important instrument of international law, and at this specific moment it is quite relevant that france has requested that it be applied. however, there are aspects which should not be underestimated and which have emerged strongly during the negotiations for the preparation of these reports. i am therefore very pleased with the final text, to which i contributed my vote, because it represents a balanced and effective summary of the pros and cons of the decision to rely on this particular institution of international law now, and of the reasons which should guide these choices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very important resolution of parliament, which is being adopted on the occasion of the first use of the mutual defence clause. i think it is necessary to promote the development of this clause and to identify practical arrangements and guidelines to ensure an effective response in the event that a member state activates it to defend itself against an attack such as the one that took place in paris on 13 november. i do not think that bilateral management of these situations is the right response, since a european response is needed. this occasion can indeed be an opportunity to lay a new and stronger foundation for a strong and effective european defence union, improving the union's security and self-defence capability against external attacks which so seriously undermine its stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mutual defence clause. according to this clause, contained in article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union (teu), if a country of the union is subject to armed aggression on its territory, the other eu countries are obliged to provide it with aid and assistance by all means at their disposal, in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations. solidarity, mutual aid and assistance between member states, including through the use of union funds, are among the foundations of the european union. a common european strategy is essential if the principle of mutual defence is to be respected and the fight against international terrorism, which is one of the union's priorities, is to be guaranteed, and the principle of solidarity, which requires action both within and outside the union, is to be applied.
in writing. ‒ europe is a possible battleground, and in view of the recent terrorist attacks, we have a duty to show solidarity, help and assistance. mutual defence is a right that i believe should be pursued. i would give you all my full support by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a reality that undermines the stability of our societies. in recent months we have witnessed a violent escalation in europe, culminating in the bloody attacks in paris on 13 november 2015. the fight against terrorism is certainly a priority for the union, as the mutual defence clause shows, but it should be remembered that efforts to prevent it must be intensified. following the atrocious events in france, the country invoked article 42 (7) for the first time in the history of the union, triggering the aforementioned clause. this is a very important instrument for establishing effective cooperation between member states and a single european defence which would make the union's external action coherent and autonomous. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is necessary to bring the subject up in the political debate, particularly in the council and the european parliament, in order to achieve integration between the eu's instruments in the field of security and defence and the resources of the member states, thus enhancing their effectiveness. the priority, given the events, is to ensure greater and more careful information sharing by the intelligence services of each member state.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in paris last november, france called for the support of the other eu countries using the 'mutual defence' clause in article 42 (7) teu, which had never been used before. the clause, being used for the first time, has given rise to the need to implement ad hoc measures and to provide for entirely new management and cooperation. for this reason, the establishment of practical arrangements and guidelines for a future activation of the mutual defence clause should be a priority for the union. i welcomed the unanimous support given to france by all the member states and the readiness to provide all the necessary aid and assistance. i hope that the member states will continue to give their unconditional and lasting support for as long as it takes to ensure the maximum security of the citizens of the alps. i consider the activation of the mutual assistance clause a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a genuine common defence and security policy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the problems now on the table, from internal terrorism on europe's borders to political instability in many countries bordering the mediterranean and the control of the flow of migrants, make it necessary to accelerate the project, which is increasingly being discussed, of a common european defence policy. the member states must stop 'chattering' about this issue and open themselves to a structured dialogue with well-defined deadlines, starting with improving cooperation between (external) border control officers, police and intelligence services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i consider it a mistake - a serious mistake - to ask for the establishment of permanent headquarters to plan the defence of the eu and to manage it in cooperation with nato. the idea of an eu going toe way of nato will certainly not help to create favourable feelings towards it. the eu cannot be seen as a peaceful mediator who puts himself above the parties. i hope that instead of thinking of developing and coordinating its military defence capabilities, the eu will return to the peaceful vocation that marked its birth, which was born out of a commitment not to repeat the horrors and mistakes of the two world wars.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the motion for a resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 sessions of the un human rights council. seventy years after the birth of the un system, in a world torn by war, threatened by global warming, and hit by the largest migration phenomenon since the second world war, the great theme of respect for human rights remains a priority. in too many parts of the world, there are still constant violations of the freedom, life and security of individuals by non-democratic states and governments. the european union's core principles, such as zero tolerance for the death penalty, torture and inhuman and degrading treatment, are often violated by some of the same states that today sit on the human rights council. taking note of this situation, the eu has set out a number of priorities to promote a broader assertion of the rule of law and democratic principles. the commitment to religious freedom, the commitment to the protection of migrants, refugees and lgbti people, the defence of minors and women are the pillars of the european position and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote is not acceptable and contains considerable criticisms. not only does it not propose any concrete solutions to the issues raised, but it is completely unbalanced in favour of protecting immigrants, even calling for the introduction of the category of "climate migrants" among the categories to be protected. for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the promotion of the universality and indivisibility of civil, economic, political, social and cultural rights is at the heart of the eu's ethical and legal acquis, which reaffirms the commitment of its member states to condemn torture and inhuman and degrading punishment of any individual under any circumstances. the priorities identified by the united nations for 2016, which include, inter alia, the fight against the death penalty and the rights of migrants and women, are urgent and cannot be postponed. i wholeheartedly support the recommendations in this resolution and the renewed european commitment to guarantee the obligations of the eu treaty and the united nations in the internal and external policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i fully share its spirit and content. i think it is particularly important to ensure that the election of the member states of the cdu is based on the achievements of the countries concerned in the defence and protection of human rights, so that the work of this body can be truly effective.
in writing. ‒ europe must continue to work to promote the protection and promotion of human rights. the eu must support the work of the new cdu president, ambassador choi kyong-lim, and the practical implementation of the cdu's annual report to the un general assembly on its 28th, 29th and 30th sessions. the eu must emphasise the absurdity of the election of cdu members by states which do not defend or respect the most basic human rights. the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights must become the criteria for assessing the achievements of any country likely to be elected to the cdu: it is unacceptable that newly elected members of the cdu such as saudi arabia are constantly violating human rights and freedom of thought and expression. the cdu's independence must therefore be reaffirmed to ensure that it can continue to exercise its mandate effectively and impartially. we europeans must act to ensure that all participants honour their obligations to build a freer and more humane world for all.
in writing. - i vote against it. the resolution proposes nothing and is totally unbalanced in favour of the protection of immigrants, lgbti. it notes the introduction of the so-called climate migrant category among the categories to be protected. there are attacks on russia as a country that does not respect human rights, including in the sports field.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european union's priorities for the un human rights council sessions in 2016. respect for, and promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights is one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity and must be the guiding principle of the eu's foreign policy. in particular, as the report points out, it is important to focus attention on key issues such as respect for civil and political rights by all nations, zero tolerance for capital punishment and torture, and protection of freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief. for several months now, we have been witnessing the worst humanitarian crisis since world war ii, with a growing number of people forced to leave their homes due to persecution, armed conflict and climate change. these people are heading to europe in search of protection and a better life, undertaking dangerous journeys even at the risk of their lives. today's text also emphasizes this point, highlighting the problems to be solved. i therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ all states have an obligation to uphold respect for human rights, regardless of ethnicity, origin, religion, class, caste, sex, sexual orientation or colour of the skin. respect for, promotion of and safeguarding the universality of human rights are an integral part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis. internal and external consistency in the field of human rights is essential for the credibility of the eu's human rights foreign policy. in light of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's priorities for the un human rights council sessions in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions which seek to highlight the priorities of the un human rights council. these documents are based on the recognition of issues such as civil, political and economic rights, as well as women's and children's rights, capital punishment, immigration and religious freedom, as priorities of the human rights agenda in 2016.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i had to vote against this resolution because, despite the great and meritorious work done by the epp negotiator to have a text that was acceptable as a whole and in which all the issues important to us were mentioned, we were unable to prevent parliament from issuing a severe judgment on the most controversial matter of international politics today: the israeli-palestinian conflict. it is not for us to say who is right and who is wrong, and although i have my own specific idea, i do not think it appropriate to mention it in political documents unless it can contribute to a stable and lasting solution. since that did not happen, i did not feel i had to vote in favour but i wanted to show my opposition.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the resolution encouraging the eu to participate actively and consistently in the un human rights mechanisms, as well as to improve the preparation and coordination of eu policies for the cdu sessions and in addressing the issue of coherence between the internal and external dimensions of european human rights policy. moreover, greater efforts will have to be made to adopt a human rights-based approach and respect for human rights in trade and investment policies as well.
in writing. petitions and the european citizens' initiative (eci) are tools that should increase democratic participation, dialogue, inclusion and the very legitimacy of the institutions. but the limits and the problems are objectively enormous. the number of ices and rejected petitions is very high, the delay in their examination and the lack of clarity in the information provided to citizens have led to a collapse in trust and expectations in these instruments. not only that: many european citizens are not even aware of the existence of these opportunities, and even when they are known, those concerned are faced with a range of problems, from bureaucracy to the difficulty of active participation in the possible discussion phase, from the exclusion of the possibility of institutional intervention due to lack of competence, to the absence of concrete legislative action to follow up on the action of citizens. i therefore vote in favour of the criticisms and proposals contained in the report, but we must not forget that each of us can play a vital role in the european parliament. we can be real spokesmen, turning citizens' petitions into subjects for discussion and political initiative, giving full meaning to democratic participation and leading to the creation of a true citizens' europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 sessions of the un human rights council. respect for human rights and dignity, as well as the principles of freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, are among the values common to all the member states of the european union and which inspire the union's action both within and beyond its borders. all states have an obligation to uphold respect for human rights, irrespective of race, origin, sex or colour, and such respect for human rights must be integrated into all areas, such as policies on peace and security, migration, trade and investment, and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ whereas all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the declaration of human rights, without distinction of any kind; i personally believe that every organ of society, with this declaration in mind, should strive to promote, through education and training, respect for these rights and freedoms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore welcome the motions for resolutions with enthusiasm and i would vote in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ respect for, and promotion and protection of, human rights are an integral part of the european union's external action. however, global challenges have highlighted the need for a stronger commitment by the union to the protection of human rights within its borders. this is particularly true in the area of migration and asylum, where, while stating that respect for these rights is a fundamental principle, some member states draw attention to the need to improve border controls without, however, imagining measures to facilitate legal migration or safe access to asylum in the eu. in this regard, it is essential that the european union cooperates with unhcr and develops a strategy that addresses the root causes of the phenomenon and ensures that states respect international law and the principle of non-refoulement and establish transnational humanitarian cooperation. the union also needs to step up efforts to protect lgbt rights and to act against acts of individual and political violence perpetrated on the basis of sexual orientation. finally, it is crucial that the eu develops a gender mainstreaming strategy in order to reduce gender gaps and violence, and to strengthen women's participation at all levels of decision-making.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's priorities for the 2016 human rights council sessions as it contains all our demands, such as the fight against the criminal phenomenon of land grabbing. even today, fundamental rights are under threat around the world on several fronts: the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the protection of the rights of all citizens. the resolution also stresses the importance of the beijing platform for action on access to education and health as a fundamental human right. universal access to sexual and reproductive health services, as well as easy access to contraceptives, are important elements in saving the lives of women, including rape victims, and in reducing infant and maternal mortality.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the committee on petitions provides a comprehensive overview of the work done, by compiling data and statistics on the number of petitions received and the issues addressed. the 2014 petition rate is just under 30%, with a high level of interest in the areas of environment, fundamental rights, health, justice and the internal market. this is why we want to see more effective cooperation with governments and local authorities to improve, simplify and speed up the petition system, increasing the use of this instrument of participation. this will allow each citizen to feel more involved in european choices and policies, reducing the perception of distance from the institutions. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the geringer de oedenberg report today. the text provides an overview of the work of the committee on petitions in 2014, highlighting in particular the successes and critical points related to the petition mechanism. the number of petitions received fell sharply in the year under review, suggesting that citizens were not fully aware of the scope of this right, enshrined in article 227 of the treaty of lisbon. while the number of unsuccessful petitions also remains high, it is important to note that citizens' attention seems to be focused mainly on issues of justice, the environment, fundamental rights and the internal market. in general terms, the important work of the committee must be acknowledged, which, despite the difficulties arising from a reduction in staff, has succeeded in effectively establishing itself as a point of coordination between citizens and institutions, thus strengthening the legitimacy of parliament and its responsibility in the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg is balanced and has very much in common with the others, so i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the european parliament's committee on petitions is a key instrument of democracy and that the data on its activities in 2014 show that more effort is needed from national and local authorities and the european institutions to provide it with more support to bring citizens closer to the union.
in writing. - i vote for it. despite the overemphasis on the positive results of the work of the committee on petitions and a general call for an increase in the number of staff working on petitions (without specifying whether this could be done through new recruitment or internal reorganisation of ep staff), we still believe that the petitions section is a tool to be protected; the report also contains specific and critical references to aspects of community legislation (gmos, ttip, tisa, etc.) which we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions. the right to petition parliament is a cornerstone of european citizenship, enshrined as a fundamental right under article 227 of the treaty of lisbon. any natural or legal person residing in the union may, individually or in association with others, submit a petition to the european parliament on a matter within the union's field of activity. it thus makes it possible to establish a close link between institutions and citizens, and to monitor and study the impact of different eu policies and legislation on people's daily lives. the work of the committee on petitions to enable eu citizens and residents to participate in the defence and promotion of their rights is crucial. however, as the report indicates, in order to address the issues raised by the petitions in a timely manner, it is essential to improve institutional coordination with the institutions at union, national and regional level and with other bodies. this would also make it possible to strengthen the legitimacy and accountability of the european parliament's decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an overview of the work of the committee on petitions and provides highly shareable insights to ensure that european citizens make better use of the instruments of direct democracy. the general approach of the report, which stresses the importance of the right to petition and lists the issues on which a large number of citizens have expressed their concerns (such as ttip, fracking for the extraction of gas and oil from underground, forced adoptions and international child abductions, among others), is certainly to be shared. the recommendations are also interesting and shareable. among these, the main one is the call to the commission to ensure a faster average response time to petitions sent by parliament and to provide more concrete answers to citizens' requests. the report also calls for more structured cooperation with the governments of the member states and with their national parliaments. the final text is therefore quite positive and, also in the light of the many requests made by the five star movement, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the vote on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. i believe that the petition is an excellent means of democratic participation for european citizens. as stated in article 227 of the lisbon treaty, petitioning the eu is a fundamental right and an instrument that brings citizens closer to the institutions and the decision-making process by ensuring their direct participation. this is the direction the peti committee's initiatives should take, with the task of raising awareness and informing citizens about the forms and ways of using petitions.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition is a fundamental element of participatory democracy, but unfortunately most european citizens are not aware of the right to petition or its potential usefulness as a means of attracting the attention of the institutions or the members elected by them. moreover, there is still considerable confusion about the fields of activity of the european union, which means that a large number of petitions are inadmissible. i felt i had to vote in favour of this report because i believe that with commitment many structural and organisational shortcomings linked to the functioning of this commission can be overcome, firstly by ensuring an effective and timely processing of petitions with their reasons if they are inadmissible and by providing the committee on petitions with a fully operational web portal which effectively allows signatories to register, submit a petition, upload the accompanying documents, support the petitions that are admissible and receive information on the status of their petition as well as being informed of changes in the status of the petition by automatic e-mail messages, being able to contact directly with officials of the eu institutions for clear and direct information on the progress of the matter of interest.
in writing. ‒ the annual report aims to give a precise and complete overview of the work of the committee on petitions, providing a range of data and statistics on the number of petitions received and the issues addressed, and proposing a number of recommendations. in 2014, just under 30% of petitions were declared admissible and actually dealt with. the most frequently raised issues were justice, the environment, the internal market, fundamental rights and health. the report contains several positive aspects. these include: a reference to the importance of the right to petition and the usefulness of petitions; criticism of the european commission's particularly weak responses to the european citizens' initiatives which have exceeded one million signatures (right 2 water, one of us, stop vivisection); the reference to the dozens of petitions expressing concern about ttip and the use of fracking to extract gas and oil from underground; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in the field of vocational training. the report calls for more structured cooperation with national governments and parliaments. it seems to me to be a good report, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the committee on petitions plays a key role in bringing citizens closer to the european institutions. it is the front office of parliament, the peti committee, which makes parliament a truly democratic institution. it is important to improve its performance and to give priority to citizens' requests
in writing. ‒ as the only democratically elected european institution, the parliament must make a greater effort to respond to the petitions of its citizens. however, as the report states, the union must do more to better inform european citizens about the procedures for filing petitions and their role. i hope that in the year 2016 we can continue to hear and discuss the petitions of the citizens we represent.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of this report, we wanted to provide an overview of the work of the committee on petitions, which plays a key role in addressing all the issues concerning the various policies and regulations of the union that are of concern to european citizens. the right to petition the european parliament remains a cornerstone of european citizenship and a fundamental right, thanks to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the new web portal, which has been operational since november 2014, has certainly improved the previous system for online transmission of petitions. what we are asking for now is a single point of contact for citizens, to help them find solutions to alleged violations of their rights. this is an extremely important objective. the commission's initiative to combine formal and informal complaint mechanisms in the 'your rights in the eu' section of the www.europa.eu website can be a significant step in this direction. however, the distinction between formal mechanisms (complaints to the commission, petitions to the european parliament, complaints to the european ombudsman) and informal ones (solvit, ecc-net, fin-net, etc.) needs to be further clarified and explained. citizens need to know where to find the kind of information they are looking for.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the european parliament and a european citizen, i believe it is useful that every individual, represented by the eu institution and directly elected by it, can draw attention to the representatives he or she has elected by means of a petition. i hope that this petition will also strengthen the communication between the european parliament and the citizens of the union. equally important will be the evaluation of the petition which will be dealt with in a careful, efficient and timely manner. a reply will then be sent to the petitioner promptly, indicating the measures taken or, if so, the reasons for the petition's inadmissibility. the citizens' dialogue with the european union must be encouraged, and i would say that i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ any citizen or resident of the union, and any natural or legal person having its registered office in a member state, has the right to petition the european parliament on a matter which comes within the union's field of activity and which concerns it directly. it is a tool for citizens to bring to parliament their concerns about the impact of different eu policies and legislation on their daily lives. the 2014 annual report aims to provide a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions. in 2014, the european parliament received 2 714 petitions, which represents a decrease of 6% compared to 2 891 received in 2013. the 2014 european year of citizenship focused on the european elections which took place from 22 to 25 may. i hope that the commission can continue to offer european citizens direct contact with the institutions, ensuring that the latter listen to their specific problems.
in writing. ‒ the report on the annual activities of the peti committee in the year 2014 gives a complete overview of the work carried out by the committee in the year 2014. the report concludes with a series of recommendations for activities. we therefore voted in favour of the report, which contains many important points for the movement. for example, the importance of the right to petition is emphasised, which is understood as the exercise of a fundamental power of democratic scrutiny and control by citizens. some of the european commission's inaccurate responses to major european citizens' initiatives, such as stop vivisection and right 2 water, are also criticised. the committee also referred to the numerous petitions on ttip and the isds clause, fracking and the failure of some member states to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we voted in favour of the report because it calls for cooperation with national governments and parliaments, with regional and local authorities and also with the european commission, which has too long a response time for certain urgent questions requiring a faster response time.
in writing. ‒ this annual report aims to give a precise and complete overview of the work of the committee on petitions, providing a range of interesting data and statistics: in 2014, 2,714 petitions were registered, of which only 790 were declared admissible and actually dealt with. the report contains several positive aspects. i would point out, among other things, the reference to the importance of the right to petition, which is understood as the exercise of a fundamental power of democratic scrutiny and control by citizens; criticism of the european commission's particularly weak responses to the european citizens' initiatives, which have exceeded one million signatures; the reference to the dozens of petitions expressing considerable concern about ttip, the use of fracking to extract gas and oil from underground, the failure of some member states to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the international abduction of children. the council also called for more structured cooperation with national governments and parliaments, as well as with regional and local authorities, in order to provide more rapid and detailed answers and also to reduce the perception of opacity and lack of transparency among european citizens.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank my group for having supported a resolution in this house today which is aimed at supporting a major national issue in my country, italy. the freedom of the two marines, one of whom is still detained, imprisoned in india and both still under judicial review, pending the results of an arbitration process, from the results not very close, which however see the solution to their story still very far away, is even thought beyond 2018. the president of the council of our country says that italy is a great country, and rightly so! and i also honor that statement. but a great country defends its soldiers, especially if they are prisoners abroad, and i do not think it can be objectively said that more has been done, if not a weak and in some cases a crumbling and messy defence. but in all this delicate business there is a power which, if possible, appears even weaker and more unskilled, the european power. the question of the two seas is also one of 'where is europe?' it is supposed to defend us from isis and it seems that it is not able to defend two soldiers, who are also engaged in the fight, which involves all of us, against the crime of international piracy. and i would say that you should also defend another very important point, that of their military honor, because these accusations hurt their military honor. it is doubtful that this is the reason for the lack of commitment, perhaps because the military honour of its citizens is of little concern to the european union. that is another aspect to consider. on a matter so long in the making that it has only now, laboriously, taken the path that could perhaps be the highway of international arbitration. the voice of europe, dear commissioner mogherini, seems weak, and in any case not very effective, given the results, when it could be, it should be very concerned about the fate of those who, like our sailors, defend a fundamental principle of freedom on the seas. well, i think the commission should reassess the whole of eu-india relations, starting with the suspension of any negotiations currently under way with india, first of all the free trade agreement. long live the italian navy, its values and the honor of its marines!
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i apologize that the author is not here and has been unable to be here because of unforeseen commitments. once again the european parliament is called upon to speak out on a violation of human rights. this is the case of the arrest and conviction of 35 british and estonian citizens. as my colleague said earlier, the same is true of the two italian mares. i think it is right and necessary that the member states should show the same cohesion today as they did in the past. coordinated action by the entire international community could have encouraged and facilitated a rapid and satisfactory solution to the matter long ago. i urge high representative federica mogherini to act as soon as possible in this regard.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would not like the bureaucratic rigidities of the presidency to produce unpleasant ambiguities and misinterpretations. we are talking about a resolution which in the title speaks of italians, but in reality the resolution does not speak at all of italians, because the part concerning the moro has been crossed out. so i would like to end this debate by saying that what we approve of is that the title should also be changed, because i understand that the communications may not have been effective, but we are simply talking today about the security guards on the seaman guard ohio patrol vessel, including 20 european citizens: 14 estonians and 6 britons. so i want to make that clear. this resolution is not intended as an act against india, a country which we respect and which has long democratic traditions, but we want to call for the need, after having seen the length and contradictory nature of judicial decisions, that first of all the citizens who are detained be treated with full respect for human rights and that positive solutions to this matter be found within the framework of the cooperation process between the european union and india.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a year since we adopted by an overwhelming majority a resolution on the case of the italian seamen latorre and girone, who were arrested in india in 2012 and for whom there is no end in sight to this long nightmare. in view of the hearing in the hague before the arbitral tribunal, it was decided not to include the case in the resolution. i would have preferred to have spoken about it, because i would not like this decision to be interpreted as an act of european weakness. in the resolution we voted a few months ago we clearly stated that their detention without charge is a 'grave violation of human rights'. for the italian seamen, as for all european citizens detained in india, the european union is called upon to honour its commitment to the full and concrete protection of fundamental rights. i call for greater determination in resolving the dispute. india must know that whatever decision it takes, it will have an impact on its relations with the european union.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is a fundamental right and as such must be protected, as provided for in the african charter and the cotonou agreement. we all want to see the principles of the universal declaration of human rights respected, without which there can be no true democracy. we therefore call for an immediate and inclusive and transparent political dialogue between all political representatives, civil society and the population. the african continent is a wonderful continent, rich in resources, but one that pays for savage colonial exploitation. the european union should commit itself to helping african countries to free themselves and emancipate themselves from trade policies, without falling into new forms of neo-colonialism, too often disguised as economic and free trade agreements.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for some months now the people of the oromia region of ethiopia have been protesting against the plan to extend the municipal boundaries of the capital addis ababa within their territory. this repeated expansion has already caused problems for local farmers in the past, forcing them to leave their land and live in abject poverty. since the protests began, the situation has been critical: 140 protesters were killed and many more injured by security forces in what is considered the country's worst humanitarian crisis since 2005. we therefore call for an immediate end to this latest wave of violence and human rights violations, torture and political intimidation. finally, while we are aware of ethiopia's commitment, which we acknowledge, to cooperation with the european union on the issue of immigrants and refugees, it is also necessary, in view of the large amounts of funding received by the ethiopian government, to monitor the use of funds and to prevent them from facilitating human rights violations, as in the cases we have raised.
in writing. i consider the human rights situation in ethiopia to be extremely serious, with repeated violations by the security forces, who respond with violence to peaceful protests by citizens against government policies. the same ethiopian authorities, who are supposed to guarantee the rule of law, are abusing the power in their hands by arresting dissidents, including many journalists and members of opposition political parties. i am very concerned about the fate of all those who are persecuted for their ideas. i wonder how ethiopia, the second most populous country in africa and an economically developing country, can tolerate such violations of the inalienable right to freedom of expression. given the aid ethiopia receives from the european union and the international human rights treaties to which ethiopia is a party, this is unacceptable! the commission has a duty to urge the ethiopian authorities to respect freedom of expression and to release the prisoners whose only fault is that they think differently from the line laid down by the government. i believe it is essential that the union pays greater attention in the present and future negotiations with ethiopia, so as not to compromise with a country which, to date, does not guarantee respect for human rights.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also apologise to the author for not being able to be here. the nuclear bomb: the very word gives me the creeps. we cannot but strongly condemn the nuclear test of 6 january, which is clearly a provocative act. the problem, however, is that to be credible here in europe too, we should dismantle our arms and close all trade with countries where there are conflicts. only by setting a good example can we be credible. it is recent news that the united states has decided to embark on a programme to modernise nuclear weapons and the programme will also concern italy, as 70 atomic bombs will be replaced in aviano, at the sites of aviano and ghedi. they're next-generation atomic bombs that can destroy even the underground. it is therefore right, very right, to point the finger at the regime in pyongyang, but the european union should do the same with regard to the various member states and partners, starting with the united states.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly condemn the nuclear test conducted by north korea on 6 january and call on the north korean government to re-sign and ratify the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, from which it withdrew its signature in 2003. we also call for the un security council to strengthen sanctions further, because we are concerned about the human rights situation in the country. the north korean government does not allow any political opposition, the judicial system is subordinated to the state and the death penalty is in force for a wide range of crimes against the state. and we have to talk about unspeakable crimes for which north korea should be called before the international criminal court to answer for such abuses. it is therefore our duty to call for the abolition of the death penalty, the release of political prisoners and the free movement of our citizens, and given the serious food situation in the country, we call on the commission to maintain the humanitarian aid programmes.
mr president, i too would like to join in supporting this motion for a resolution. it's been said, north korea is probably the most human rights abusive country in the world today. a communist dictatorship that murders thousands of its citizens every year, hundreds of thousands of people are imprisoned in concentration camps, and more than half the population is starving and many are even dying of hunger. it is a country with which, unfortunately, there has been no international dialogue in recent times. but i think it's a good thing we're passing the resolution today. i want to make a point that has also been made in the debate. i think the part of the resolution that's very important is that we call on china to help us put pressure on north korea. because i personally believe that china is the only country that has any authority over north korean officials, and china can be key in trying to change the regime in north korea and bring the regime to respect at least basic human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, north korea remains one of the most isolated countries in the world because of provocative acts such as the hydrogen bomb tests it carried out on 6 january. for 60 years, this country has threatened to invade and destroy its southern neighbors and the united states. it is too easy to dismiss north korea's latest announcements and attitudes as mere skirmishes. this time the danger is serious and comes two months after north korea's third nuclear test led the un security council to approve new sanctions against the north koreans, which follow those already approved previously. north korea must refrain from further provocative actions and immediately comply with all international obligations. it is time for the international community to take concrete action to put an end to this situation. the major international players and the government of the people's republic of china in particular should exert all their influence and political and economic leverage over north korea to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate further. let us work together to restore peace to the world.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecb's work in 2015 follows a long-standing political plan. to date, 19 countries in the eurozone, more than 330 million people, have surrendered their monetary sovereignty to the ecb. all the peoples of europe who no longer control their own currency and banking system must realize that they are peoples who have been deprived of fundamental rights to democratic self-determination and who are under the dictatorship of brussels and frankfurt. the ecb, since taking over as the first pillar of the banking union at the end of 2014, has been running both its bankrupt monetary policies, inflating banks, and its supervision of banks in a total conflict of interest. the ecb continues to profess policies that are not its responsibility, austerity and reforms, paving the way for large stakeholders, investment funds, large tax evaders, those who pull the strings of this political project and who are strategically sharing public resources at equilibrium prices with privatizations. strong shocks are expected in 2016 due to the global economic slowdown and the migrant crisis. we cannot think that the only plan on the table is the further transfer of sovereignty to new figures who are not democratically elected and who are far from the needs of the people, as stated in the report by the five presidents. it would be a further slap in the face to the citizens by the eurocracy. we must therefore support as soon as possible a new and democratic political plan for europe based on an orderly and agreed exit strategy from the euro. one thing must be clear: the enemies of democracy are not those who raise doubts about the single currency and the ecb, but those who continue to defend it religiously without admitting its obvious failure.
i am sorry, mrs annemans, but we cannot offend, let alone offend our guests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the political groups for their contribution to improving this text, which is now a balanced text, which clearly expresses a positive view of the monetary policy action of the ecb and recognizes the importance of the unconventional measures adopted in recent months. i also share the assessment expressed by president draghi on further developments in the macroeconomic framework. on the one hand, we are witnessing a strengthening of the domestic economy, driven mainly by consumption, and on the other hand, we are witnessing a weakening of the world economy, caused both by the slowdown in emerging economies and by the increase in uncertainty on financial markets. our ability to influence the global economy is limited. we can, however, influence what happens in the euro area, first of all by continuing and adapting the monetary policy measures in place. in this respect it is very positive that the governing council of the ecb has unanimously declared its readiness to reconsider the stance of monetary policy should it prove insufficient to achieve the stated objectives. of course, monetary policy alone cannot guarantee the transition from a cyclical to a structural recovery. for this to happen, we need to continue on the path of socially balanced structural reforms aimed at increasing the growth potential of our economy and, at the same time, we need fiscal policy, at the aggregate level, to move in tandem with monetary policy, not against it. the countries with fiscal space must use it and the fiscal adjustment of those with less space must continue at a sustainable pace, applying all the rules of the stability pact, including the flexibility it contains. finally, work is needed to complete economic and monetary union, giving substance to the long-term vision of the five presidents' report: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the fiscal backstop, to start work on it, and to work on the european commission's legislative proposal on deposit guarantee. it is of course right that work on risk reduction should continue, but it must be done in a broader international context and also taking account of the requirements of financial stability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revival of growth requires decisive political action in three areas: structural reforms, budgetary policies and monetary policy. with these words, president draghi answered my questions from september 2014, outlining the ecb's monetary policy measures and then adopted in recent years. the crisis has, however, painfully highlighted the economic difficulties faced by european citizens when structural rigidities are not corrected by the member states. the ecb's activity, which is credited with having defended the euro and price stability with all its determination, cannot therefore be sufficient. strengthening governance and economic policy coordination is a necessary step to correct macroeconomic imbalances and to take advantage of the effectiveness and flexibility of the stability pact. if, therefore, there is a recovery in the euro economy, the great fragility of its fundamentals leaves ample room for intervention for the political commitment of states and institutions to implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms. i support the report and thank president draghi for his commitment to preserving the credibility of economic and monetary union through the measures implemented.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of tisa, as of any trade agreement, must, in our view, be to bring benefits to european consumers and workers by introducing ambitious rules which favour long-term growth and are capable of regulating the provision of the various services. the european parliament also called for the implementation and application of international standards to be promoted, without however making any new commitments which might jeopardise eu rules in the financial sector. the commission should also take into account the fact that the commission has already adopted a communication on the implementation of the tir convention, which is intended to provide a framework for the implementation of the tir convention. last but not least, we ask the commission to continue on the path of transparency, which is essential to bring european citizens closer to the decisions we are faced with every day. we hope that the committee's vote in favour will be confirmed by this house.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion adopted unanimously in the itre committee, where we supported both the general approach of the reding report - transparency, accountability and protection of public services - and the specific needs of telecommunications and energy, i want to explain why parliament is taking this action. parliament is moving, in addition to the council's mandate, to establish further constraints which this delicate negotiation must respect. these are substance-related constraints: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it's also about procedural constraints: the commission has also been asked to provide the council with a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. we must ensure that the negotiations respect all the precautions rightly demanded by the european citizens whom we represent. it is therefore clear to the citizens that on wednesday parliament will not vote yes to a treaty, but will vote for a stricter and more precise mandate for the negotiators.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the trade in services treaty, tisa, seems to have a double personality. on the one hand, there is the good tisa, which the commission presents to us every day, the one that will create jobs, the one that will increase growth, the one in which workers will be safe and protected. on the other hand, however, the leaked texts show us a dark and dangerous tisa, one of wild liberalizations, one that will abolish forever the boundary between state and private, one that will put an end to public services as we have known them until today: health care, water, school, free internet. but then i wonder: what is tisa? what is tisa? we're still a long way from his approval. the negotiations are top secret and there's no way of knowing yet which of the two personalities will prevail over the other. but we will be watching, because sooner or later, madam commissioner, this treaty will come to this parliament. we shall vote on a text next wednesday which will set out our concerns and our demands in black and white. this is not the text of the tisa, but guidelines for the negotiators, who will have to adhere to them strictly, because we, madam commissioner, will be waiting for you at the door.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 december this year the european union will have to express a clear, reasoned and sustainable position on the granting of market economy status to china. beyond the legal issues and the even more important employment consequences, what is at stake now is the very possibility of such a position by the european union. i am working with other members to make the way in which we tackle this challenge more transparent and effective, but we need more, we need to demand more for the sake of our businesses. we cannot trust a document which deviates so significantly from the estimates made by the companies themselves of the jobs at risk. we need a firm initiative towards the commission to prevent europe from reaching the decisive moment without the support of adequate reflection. ladies and gentlemen, we must get the commission to negotiate seriously and to use the full economic and political weight of europe to send a clear message to china. the threat of wto action should not frighten us. a confrontation with europe is not in the chinese's interest either.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying how pleased my group and i are with the debate we are having, since we have been trying for several months to have this debate. our position is clear: the conditions for automatic unilateral granting of market economy status are not met. the pressure from us and the stakeholders over the past months has led the college of commissioners to postpone the decision until the second half of 2016, which is good news if the next few weeks are used to carry out the impact assessment in full compliance with the guidelines set out by the commission and to find alternative solutions, not just minimizing the data we have today. we are still puzzled that the last few months have been so short to take such a crucial decision, when we have had 15 years to build a more effective strategy. we are convinced that the granting of market economy status is very dangerous in the absence of a method of calculating the normal value of production to counteract the market discrepancies which would open up with the collapse of the current anti-dumping defence system and in the event of a unilateral decision. we are not asking the commission to be ideologically closed off, but to ensure that trade and competition are based on fairness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we all agree that china, despite making good progress in implementing its wto commitments, is still lacking and that there are still major outstanding problems, such as a lack of transparency, the existence of measures which discriminate against foreign companies, the heavy government intervention in the economy, the inadequate protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, and so on. we ask ourselves a question, the crucial one: we are not talking about a single market, but about a single market. what would happen? china right now, if it had that kind of recognition, would be in a position to cause a very high rate of joblessness. our industrial system would have a reduction in total collateral protection of 30 percent or 50 percent, which would be devastating either way. so we want and expect that there should be precise guarantees, in a deepening of openness and of confrontation with china, which is certainly a great trading partner. but the priority and strategy of the european commission is certainly to safeguard jobs and, in fact, to achieve the objective of supporting more and more jobs through trade agreements. so we cannot afford automation, we cannot afford partial checks on the impact that would come from this kind of recognition. we must face the hard reality today, looking at what might happen. of course, a legal and regulatory assessment must be carried out, but we ask at this time that there be a responsible position... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is the first real opportunity for the european parliament to formally engage with the european commission on the esm. i believe that the commission should carry out a thorough impact assessment as soon as possible, which should highlight the possible sectoral and geographical scenarios for the european economy following the possible neutralisation of anti-dumping instruments. the commission should endeavour to carry out a public consultation, as it does for all major legislative initiatives, to enable all relevant stakeholders to provide input. in view of the meeting tomorrow of the council of trade ministers which will be discussing the esm, the commission has sent a note to the member states stating that 210 000 jobs would be at risk if china were to be granted esm. i'd be curious to know the parameters underlying that estimate. i believe that the granting of the ems to china must absolutely be subject to verification and proof of the technical requirements of the european union and in any case that a plan b is envisaged which includes trade defence measures equivalent to defence of the european system.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have asked the commission in the past for a technical study on the impact of the recognition of china's market economy status, but i did not expect such a politicised result as the one you have presented to us. your study says that up to 230,000 jobs will be lost, as against the 3 million announced by independent studies. why the big difference? because you used partial data to falsify the statistics. let me give you an example. i am not saying that we should be concerned because only 1.38% of chinese exports to europe are subject to anti-dumping measures. but that is not true because there were many more before and they have decreased precisely because of the anti-dumping duty. so when the duty can no longer be applied imports will rise again. so why don't we do a calculation of exports before anti-dumping measures? furthermore, in the options you submitted you did not consider that it is also possible not to grant mes but to allow for a change in certain aspects of the methodology for calculating the anti-dumping duty. in short, commissioner, as is often the case, i think that this study already shows the commission's intentions, and they are certainly not good for workers.
member of the commission.– madam president, i wish to thank parliament for this debate. we have listened very carefully and heard your messages on this. the commission is, of course, very aware of the complexity of all the aspects of this file and the importance that it has for some sectors and jobs. let us not forget that the root causes for us discussing this issue today are the existing distortions in the chinese economy. the current worsening economic situation in china and the increasing over—capacities makes any decision on this even more difficult. we are, together with colleagues in the commission, reaching out to china to have a dialogue on this. it is imperative that china engage in this. it cannot pump out cheap steel as it is doing today on the market, and that is regardless of whatever we decide on the market economy status. we welcome this debate and we will continue to look into all the aspects of it: legal, economic and social. we are preparing an impact assessment that will cover different sections and that goes beyond the preliminary one that members have been discussing. the one that some of you have been referring to that talks about millions and millions of jobs is simply scientifically not sustainable because it starts from the assumption that all our trade with china would be under anti-dumping and hence affected, whereas, as i said, it is only 1.38% of our trade with china that is subject to anti-dumping duties. we are looking at whether it is possible to strike the right balance between the objective of providing protection to our industry against unfair practices by china through a strengthened trade defence instrument, safeguarding the maximum of jobs in europe while respecting legal international obligations and ensuring free trade and investment, which is so much in our common interests. this debate will continue. rest assured that we will keep parliament informed of all the steps in these discussions.
in writing. in view of the imminent expiry of the transitional period provided for in the protocol on china's accession to the wto, i welcome the fact that the commission is finally beginning to hear the european parliament's requests on the issue of granting china market economy status. this is a result, i would stress, of the repeated pressure exerted by the socialist and democratic group, which has always stressed the sensitivity of a subject of such crucial importance for the european economy. in analysing the present situation, we all agree that china cannot yet be considered a full market economy and the coming expiry of the protocol cannot lead us to make hasty decisions which could cause incalculable damage to our industries and jobs. we have therefore asked the commission to undertake a full and realistic impact assessment of the impact on europe of the eventual granting of the esm. we also support the need for the eu to coordinate with its international partners before taking any final decisions, and to maintain instruments to protect its industry against any form of unfair competition.
in writing. there is a frightening threat looming over europe, of which european citizens know little or nothing: the recognition of the market economy status of china. the european commission is managing this eventuality in an ambiguous and obscure way, on the basis of the provisions of the protocol of accession of china to the wto, pressed by the powerful industrial and commercial lobbies of northern europe, and the consequences of which would be potentially devastating for the production system, for the economy and, ultimately, for european society. the only country that would be left with broken bones would be italy, which would suffer very heavy repercussions in the sectors and sectors of production in which it is a leader. the distortions of market conditions caused by the massive entry of chinese products into europe, the costs of which are artificially inflated by substantial state aid, would, in the absence of adequate trade defence measures, cause the loss of some 3 million jobs, of which some 400,000 in italy alone. we can't allow that. we have nothing against china, but we want trade relations to be conducted on a level playing field, which would not be the case if china were to be given the status of a market economy, which it does not have.
in writing. it is widely agreed that china has made good progress in implementing its wto commitments, but it must be acknowledged that there are still significant gaps, which lead me to strongly oppose the automatic granting of market economy status to china. the lack of transparency, the existence of measures discriminating against foreign firms, government intervention in the economy and, not least, the conditions of workers are evident. china is not a market economy and that is why we are telling the commission that an independent assessment of the impact of this measure on european employment is necessary. effective anti-dumping instruments are needed to tackle unfair competition. any sectoral solution could seriously damage our industrial system. specific instruments are needed, not protectionism, but only the application of clear rules for a fair competition policy.
in writing. when china joined the world trade organisation in 2001, subject to certain conditions, the eu agreed that after 15 years it would consider whether to grant it market economy status (mes) and thereby remove all anti-dumping restrictions on imports of chinese products, justified precisely by the need to protect the european economy from unfair competition from a fully non-market economy. the 15 years are up in december, and yet we still do not know the real intentions of the commission, which has so far avoided any real public debate and discussion. but the most disturbing fact is that the commission has never ruled out that granting china an esm could happen almost automatically, without adequate political reflection or an effective impact study. for the five star movement, not only is there no obligation to recognise china as a market economy, which it is not, but a decision to do so would be a real suicide for the european economy, which would obviously be exposed to unsustainable competition from chinese products, based on artificially low or sub-cost prices, with enormous distortions in the internal market and dramatic repercussions on employment and even on our already under pressure social and environmental standards.
member of the commission.– madam president, trade is indeed a very important tool to fight poverty. combined with development assistance and other foreign policy tools, it can really contribute to improving living conditions, creating jobs and possibilities for people. the economic partnership agreements (epas) are, as you know, asymmetrical free trade agreements. we open up for them but we do not ask the african countries or the acp countries to open up to the same extent, because we know that some sectors are very vulnerable. they are included in very long phasing-out sections in order to help them to diversify their economy. ms arena, i was in nigeria just before christmas and i spoke to many people from nigeria, and i think this would indeed benefit nigeria enormously – precisely because of its economic problems – to help diversify its economy, to make sure that it can rise in the value chains, if we can help them to develop assistance so that that they can have standards and qualifications on their products, for instance in agriculture, and also to support regional integration, because that is a very important part of the epas: regional integration and the development dimension. together with my colleague neven mimica, we are working very closely to make sure that there is a lot of development assistance in the epas. sustainability and human rights are indeed key to all our trade agreements. i agree with ms keller that we could have done even more in this area. it is not always easy, but we are trying to find ways. you know that the way for the european union is to start with dialogue, not with sanctions, because if you start with sanctions, those who will suffer are not the regime – the authorities; it is the ordinary people who benefit from the contacts. the eu model is to start with dialogue, try to set up different forums, engage with civil society. then, of course, there is the sanction possibility in the end, but there are lots of steps that can be taken. our african partners in the west african agreement were not ready to go as far as we would have wanted them when it comes to sustainable development formulas: this is under negotiation. that is why there is a rendez-vous clause where we have agreed to see if we can pursue that even further. but anyway we will, as i said in my introduction, pay specific attention to implementing, monitoring and making sure that we follow up on labour, environmental and human rights in the different forums that we are creating here, and the european parliament has a very important role to play here. cotonou indeed expires, mr martin, and we are engaged to see what will come after cotonou. but whatever happens to cotonou, the provisions there are still valuable, and the principles will not be changed, whatever happens to cotonou. also in cotonou we have monitoring possibilities with human rights dialogue, etc. we firmly believe, in the contacts we have had with the acp countries – today we are talking about west africa, but we have other ongoing or almost-closed negotiations – that this is something that has been done in partnership. there you take and give, but this is something that will be truly beneficial for, in this case, west africa, but also for the other acp countries in order to help them to develop, to create new possibilities, growth, jobs, and indeed possibilities to sustain their families in these countries, and also to promote a bigger impact on regional integration, which is something that is really lacking in this part of the world.
in writing. after ten years of negotiations, we strongly support the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement with the community of west african states. the treaty constitutes a coherent link between the european union's trade and foreign policies. the epas, if properly implemented, are indeed a great opportunity to promote sustainable growth and respect for human rights through the tools typical of trade agreements. the most delicate stage is the application. experience with aid for the development and implementation of trade agreements has shown that promises are too often disappointed. while recognising the fundamental contribution of the cotonou convention to cooperation and the active promotion of respect for fundamental rights, the lack of specific provisions in the text raises some concerns. i believe that the political dimension of the agreement must take precedence over the commercial one if we are to promote real development and social progress in west africa. i therefore ask the commission what mechanisms it will have in place to involve civil society and to establish a permanent and constructive dialogue with the partners in the area. i consider that regular comparison can ensure tangible results and avoid conditions which, by applying article 96 of the convention, would lead to the suspension of the agreement.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have before us is an excellent one and we have worked on it as a shadow rapporteur. the rapporteur has done a very good job. the report is complete and detailed, it contains everything and there are many proposals. we shall support it and we believe, from what we have heard, that it will have the support of the whole house tomorrow. the problem is that it is a bitter vote because, despite the support for this report, despite the positive vote, we will not be able to achieve the objectives that we have in the biodiversity strategy for 2020. the medium-term ratio is disastrous and we are nowhere near any of the six targets we are trying to target for 2020. so despite our efforts, the situation remains disastrous and it is depressing to see how little member states are doing to protect biodiversity and to implement the rules that could protect it and protect it and bring wealth, also as a result of this protection. we are asking, commissioner, like all the other members of this parliament, that the habitats directive and the birds directive be maintained without revision, but with better implementation and enforcement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the loss of biodiversity is mainly due to human causes such as pollution, land use and climate change. this is where we need to step in! biodiversity has enormous socioeconomic value as it creates 4.5 million jobs in the natura 2000 network. the value of pollinating insects is estimated at eur 15 billion a year, while the damage caused by invasive species costs eur 12 billion. it is therefore clear that investing in nature does have costs, but they are not comparable to those of not doing anything. just think of the damage caused by the floods. we need to engage all the stakeholders, as we do in the biodiversity, hunting and rural intergroup, where we work together with researchers, farmers, foresters, hunters and parks to find common solutions. the common fisheries policy must also involve not only fishermen, who are making enormous efforts, but also local authorities, marine protected areas, maritime transport and ports in the protection of the sea. think about the problem of plastic in the sea.
i have to say, madam president, in this report we ask ourselves whether our european approach to the conservation and promotion of biodiversity is sensible and sufficient. but we should also ask ourselves whether all our arrangements are appropriate and effective. for example, we have established that certain species in europe are virtually unhunted and cannot be controlled in any other way. no matter how many beavers, how many wolves and how many bears roam our waters and our forests, they are worth protecting, regardless of whether they actually contribute to biodiversity. i come from an area in the alps where in recent years the wolves and bears have indeed made life difficult for the farmers and more and more often impossible. it is becoming increasingly impossible to keep animals on pasture. unfortunately, we are also experiencing very serious incidents involving people, and this is far from pleasant, especially in the tourist areas. we have little insight, we are stubbornly attached to the programmes and believe that large predators should be resettled everywhere. i think we just need a political debate on this issue. we must balance the sensible conservation of biodiversity, mountain farming and the safety of the citizens, otherwise the bear and the wolf will come and the miner will go. this will not be a great step forward for biodiversity, especially in the alps.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in sicily, as in many mediterranean regions, agriculture produces extraordinary products of excellence. think of the tomatoes of pachino, the oranges of ribera or the catania plain, or this wonderful extra virgin olive oil. but what is the european union doing? the european union, instead of protecting excellent products, is thinking of destroying them. in view of the devastating experience of the eu-morocco agri-food treaty, it was therefore a good idea to propose an increase of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil from tunisia. the question i want to ask is very simple and is addressed to the members from the mediterranean countries who are mainly in the large groups in this parliament, with particular reference also to the italians and the democratic party. so if you can't defend our idiosyncrasies, if you can't stop these obscenities, then you're just here to make a show, just for the allowance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has accused the polish government of undermining media freedom and pluralism. this is because under the new law the minister of the treasury has the power to appoint and remove the heads of the public television companies. so why does the commission not also accuse the italian government? the commission is perhaps unaware that prime minister renzi has taken upon himself the power to appoint and choose the chief executive of rai, thus inaugurating a public television system worthy of a fascist regime. perhaps the commission is not aware that in italy the parties choose the directors of the networks, the directors of the news channels and the presenters of television programmes, especially political ones, and that journalists who are not liked are chased away. i could give the most striking example of enzo biagi, who was expelled by the bulgarian edict. ladies and gentlemen, now that you know everything, you can no longer remain silent. we in the five star movement want the commission to intervene in italy as it does in poland. i 'll say it again . you can't keep quiet anymore!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now close to the vote which will establish the cooperation platform to combat undeclared work. the creation of this platform is certainly a positive step in promoting cooperation and coordination between inspectorates, but it is undeniable that this structure will have costs for the union budget and it will therefore be necessary to verify that it is not yet another european cart, but that it really serves the purpose for which it was created, namely to combat undeclared work. as i know all too well, in my country, those who work underground are subjected to precarious working conditions and to extreme exploitative practices, such as the corporal's rule, which affects not only migrants but also italian citizens, as demonstrated by the shameful deaths of female agricultural workers in the south this summer. there is also a great deal of abuse in the misuse of vouchers. we hope that by voting today we will be making our contribution to making the fight against undeclared work an ever more european issue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an important text which will serve to create a high-level european body with a central objective, namely to combat undeclared work. we know that this problem is not only a burden on public finances, generating tax evasion and unfair competition between companies, but is above all a source of serious risks for workers and society in general. it is a threat to the health and safety of workers who are often employed in hazardous and strenuous sectors such as agriculture, construction and industry. it is a problem of maintaining the social fabric, also in the geographical and gender sense. it also affects the most vulnerable groups, including refugees. it is therefore right that the european union should make efforts to find a solution and that representatives of the member states, the european commission and civil society, including trade unions and employers, should be brought together to identify the european dimension of the problem. in my view, a long-term objective we must set ourselves is precisely the legalisation of undeclared work. i am pleased with the efforts we have made to improve the text, together with our colleagues, starting with the rapporteur, mr pirinski, who has done an excellent job and for whom i would like to thank him. it is important, commissioner thyssen, that the commission quickly, efficiently and concretely implement the choice we are making.
in writing. each state has its own legislation on the fight against undeclared work and an independent scope of application, but the commission has given a common minimum definition. this has been recognised in any lawful activity of any kind, but not declared to the public authorities. this is a particular scourge in italy, where it contributes to tax evasion and avoidance, as well as generally deplorable working conditions. the idea of a common european platform for the exchange of good practice and comparison between member states and between them and the social partners is certainly a useful tool, but the direction must be to identify more effective mechanisms, both in terms of repression and prevention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that the expression 'the mountain gave birth to a mouse' would be very appropriate for this proposal. it is a classic example of the community's approach that the union tries to solve very serious problems by using inadequate remedies. we would expect much more courage from the commission, because we know that we will then have to fight with the council to get satisfactory agreements and we know well what the attitude of some member states is, for which the facts speak louder than a thousand words. i wonder, for example, where the dutch presidency is today. they are probably trying to find some new agreement and new tax advantage measures to attract businesses, to the detriment of their european partners, as they have done all these years, and in good company, together with belgium, ireland or president juncker's luxembourg. the european commission says nothing about these shameful practices, because it knows full well that there is no common will in this respect at european level, but rather it is a race to take advantage of neighbouring countries, facilitating only the large multinationals to the detriment of small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to understand why the commission does not refer in its proposal to a country by country report which is public, because that is what the european citizens are asking for and it is the only way to make it effective. transparency must be the key to everything, because only in this way will we have an awareness of how multinationals and member states really operate, the same ones who say they are ready to cooperate but then refuse to provide documents or delete all compromising information, as we have all seen in the work of the taxe committee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i can tell you quite frankly that the lines in the package you have outlined are acceptable, but the contents of the package are not. they're not consistent with those lines. they are far from the requirement which you yourself have put forward and which you want to solve, namely that taxation be conducted in accordance with the rules by citizens and in particular by companies. what is missing is the heart, not just the detailed proposal that will have to come, but the idea that there should be no transparency on some of the most sensitive points, i am thinking mainly of country by country. the oecd guidelines lock and lock this information in the tax administration, they don't make it available to the public, and that's not good. transparency has a tremendous deterrent effect. i understand the commission's concerns and it is right that the work on impact assessment should be completed. but - you know this very well and i remind everyone of it - when the same work was done for banks, the conclusion was reached that transparency did not create problems for competitiveness, but rather made it stronger. the same thing should be done for businesses. we must broaden the scope of the directive and we must have transparency as a basis. finally, as you said - and i agree - that the package is timely, if timeliness is the issue, when you have finished the work on the impact assessment, do not make an ad hoc directive, but put the conclusions of the proposal into the shareholder rights directive, which is already at an advanced stage of discussion, and we will have recovered months and months. and in this case we would have given substance to the idea of early intervention.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate you on this high-level debate, with almost 50 speeches which have allowed a large number of points to be dealt with in depth, and what i see, of course with respect for the various sensitivities, is a consensus on the need to continue our joint action against tax fraud and tax evasion, which is a major topic. the package adopted by the college last thursday, at the instigation of jean-claude juncker, whom i welcome, provides us with additional tools to shape a fairer and more efficient tax system within the union and at international level. we must continue to work together towards a taxation that is adapted to the realities and challenges of the 21st century and that also facilitates growth and employment. there have been so many speeches that i cannot answer each one, but i just want to make three remarks. the first, for those who are concerned and whom i want to reassure, concerns the impact of this package on the competitiveness of european companies. no, tax justice and tax transparency are not opposed to economic efficiency. today we are witnessing a genuine global movement against tax evasion and i want to tell you that the european union is not alone in this fight against aggressive tax planning. more than 100 states and territories have already committed themselves to implementing the oecd recommendations swiftly at the g20 summit in antalya last october. i am convinced that a coordinated approach to the implementation of these recommendations at european level will, on the contrary, ensure our companies greater legal certainty, less administrative burden and - i would like to stress this again - fairer tax competition. so this package that is good for justice is also good for investment. as many of you have said - and this is my second point - the ball is now in the court of the member states. i am confident in their good will, not out of naivety, but because i think there is a very consensual subject with strong pressure from european and international public opinion. this goodwill was demonstrated by the rapid adoption within seven months of the directive on the automatic exchange of information on tax returns. however, as you know - and i cannot hide it from you - unanimity at 28 is still a huge challenge. as for me, you can count on my full and determined commitment, particularly within the ecofin council, but i will certainly need your support, i would even say your constant political pressure and your reform drive, so that the fine statements made by some national governments will be followed up with effect. i therefore count on your active support to make rapid progress. third reflection: many interventions focused on the publication of country-by-country information and many of them requested publicity. i told you what my wish was, and it's not rhetoric. i told you my personal position, and it's sincere. at the same time, we must be aware that we must respond pragmatically. yes to transparency, including advertising, provided that it does not undermine investment and competitiveness. so again, we must be very realistic about this and the commission will do that. we must move towards an intergovernmental exchange as of tomorrow. that's what the oecd suggests. we shall have occasion to return to the debate later this year, but parliament is of course heard and so will the positions which are expressed elsewhere in all the benches. i want to end by referring to an interesting, important debate which mr lamberts has raised with humour about the way the french approach love. i do not want to be too harsh and stretch this metaphor too far, but it is true that foreplay is often a necessary condition for a successful act and i would add that the french sometimes go on to act, since the fertility rate in france is among the highest in europe, but i do not want to push this metaphor any further, because as i said there are risks. besides, love and politics are not exactly the same thing. so we must move quickly in political matters, and that is what i have spoken about today, the transition to joint action. that's what we want to do together.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the eu attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying european law so that it is increasingly understandable and accessible to all citizens. this is why it is envisaged that, if a european act is amended on several occasions, it should be codified in order to ensure its immediate understanding and clarity. the consolidation consists merely in bringing together the various amendments made to the text without any substantial changes being made. the proposal for a regulation establishing a union code on the crossing of frontiers by persons is included in this context. i voted in favour because i believe it is of the utmost importance to ensure the clarity and consistency of european law, ensuring not only that it is applied correctly but also that it is clearer for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ in one of the union's most critical moments, with member states divided over the management of migration flows and border controls, it is increasingly necessary to promote direct access by citizens to european legislation on border crossing. the hautala report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a union code on border crossing arrangements is a further step in this direction. the resolution, which is of a highly technical nature, confirms the validity of the codification process of existing texts by promoting the establishment of a system which will make access to legislation produced by the union simpler and clearer. in the absence of any changes to the existing legislation and in accordance with the intention of the proposal, i have therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ the schengen agreements are now outdated and have proved to be totally inadequate to deal with the current european situation facing an unprecedented migration crisis. these agreements need to be completely revised. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the changes to the regime for the crossing of borders by persons respect the spirit of the schengen agreement and therefore go in the direction of greater integration.
in writing. ‒ the schengen convention is a major milestone in the process of european integration, allowing the overcoming of national border management and the free movement of persons within the european union. a europe without internal frontiers also brings considerable economic benefits, which shows how tangible, popular and effective the creation of the schengen area is, and the importance it has in our societies. the codification of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders has nothing to do with the current proposals for schengen reforms or suspensions. it is a technical procedure (regulated by an interinstitutional agreement providing for accelerated approval) on which the legal service of the commission, parliament and the council have delivered a favourable opinion and on which the juri committee has voted by a very large majority. the libe committee did not wish to express an opinion, which is proof that the new text does not in any way affect the political content of the schengen agreement.
in writing. ‒ a mere codification procedure without substantial changes for the approval of the code relating to the schengen agreements. however, i am openly opposed to it and would prefer to vote against the purely 'political' nature of the coding work as well.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the european parliament's position on the proposal for a regulation establishing a union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons (the so-called schengen borders code). this codification is necessary because of the numerous amendments to regulation (ec) no 562/2006. i voted in favour of the first reading position on the legislative text because the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission noted that the proposal in question was merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons, as i am convinced that border control is in the interest not only of the member state at whose external borders it is carried out, but of all member states which have abolished internal border control. border control will contribute to the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and to the prevention of any threat to the internal security, public policy, public health and international relations of the member states, without the rights of free movement enjoyed by union citizens.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation merely codifies existing rules, and i voted in favour of it. however, i think we should raise our voices about what is happening with regard to the schengen agreement: the dublin regulation is clearly inadequate to deal with the situation we are experiencing and europe needs statesmen who can look beyond contingency and draw a blueprint for the future so that we have new rules that can withstand any eventuality. we in this parliament work for an entity which the member states seem ready to sacrifice for their own electoral needs: we are not here to plug a hole, but to write the rules that our citizens ask us to write and that will make our lives easier and those of us who will face similar problems in the coming decades.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as it is a simple procedure for codifying the existing text establishing a union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons (schengen borders code), without making any substantial changes to it.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report because there are no substantial changes to the eu code. schengen must be completely reviewed.
in writing. the establishment of a community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons (schengen borders code) is limited to a codification of existing texts. this does not involve any substantial change and i have therefore decided to vote in favour. as we all know, the european union is going through an unprecedented historical moment and community legislation on immigration needs greater clarity. the latter, together with legal certainty and the immediate application of community rules, is closely linked to the establishment of the code we are discussing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons. control of the external borders is one of the main safeguarding measures carried out in the interests of all member states with the aim of preventing any threat to the internal security and public order of the member states, irrespective of the origin of the threat. it is therefore of great importance that european legislation should be simple and clear so that all european citizens can access it and exercise the rights it confers.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code) is limited to a codification of existing texts and does not involve any substantial changes and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of it. border control will help to combat illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and terrorism, which are priority issues for the european union.
in writing. ‒ the schengen borders code regulation applies to anyone crossing the external borders of all eu countries, except the united kingdom and ireland, and the internal borders of the schengen area. this regulation, as is well known, has achieved a very good result by implementing different decisions for the two frontiers. i therefore welcome a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following several meetings in 2015 between the legal services of the european parliament and those of the council and the european commission, a codification of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 was concluded. this codification establishes a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code) without any substantial changes. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the codification of the various provisions is indispensable in order to make the existing legislation on the crossing of frontiers more comprehensible and transparent.
in writing. ‒ in 1979, the eu ratified the convention on transboundary air pollution by heavy metals, the first binding instrument in the field. the convention, which regulates the control and subsequent reduction of pollution from industrial sources or the incineration of waste, was subsequently extended by eight protocols, the last of which was in 1998. the aarhus protocol has tightened the rules on emissions of certain metals, such as lead, cadmium and mercury, forcing member states to make significant reductions in their emissions. i voted in favour of the amendments because i think they are appropriate and will ensure better protection of the environment and human health.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is one of the greatest threats to human health and the environment. since the 1970s, the international community has decided to tackle the problem by creating the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution in 1979, which was later extended by several protocols. in 1998, the protocol on heavy metals, which the community acceded to in 2001, specified the measures needed to limit and control emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury. the amendments to the protocol made in 2012 need to be ratified by the eu to enter into force, which is why i voted in favour of the la via report. the new measures will not only ensure more efficient use of the best available techniques but will also set stricter emission limit values.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr la via is well thought out and worthy of sharing. the proposed amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol aim to reduce and better control both emissions of 'heavy metals' and 'persistent organic pollutants'. i believe that it is essential to strengthen the existing legislation, which will certainly bring greater protection for both the environment and the health of our citizens. i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the fight against air pollution knows no national borders and must therefore be tackled globally. in this sense, the 1979 convention, subsequently extended by eight protocols, established a legally binding framework to reduce the risks to the environment and human health caused by air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol, which the european union has transposed, regulates emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and the incineration of waste. the protocol has recently been reviewed and updated, setting stricter limits for emissions of certain dusts and establishing annual national emission registers for substances including lead, cadmium and mercury. i therefore support the inclusion of the amendments to the protocol, since its updating is fully in line with the strategy pursued by the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution by heavy metals and the protocols thereto are fundamental documents for the protection of the environment and human health and that it is therefore the union's responsibility to ensure their full implementation.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. it has been known since 1972 that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before they are deposited, which highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level as early as 1979, with the signing of the convention on transboundary air pollution which entered into force in 1983. it establishes a common framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. the european parliament is due to vote today on the commission's proposal to update the 1998 protocol to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere: the parties are required to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals to levels below 1990 levels and emission limit values are defined for certain large fixed sources, as well as requiring states to apply best available techniques (bat). it is important to support all efforts to curb air pollution and protect the health of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and releases of persistent organic pollutants (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexane (hch), polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb)). in december 2009, the protocol was amended by decisions 2009/1, 2009/2, 2009/3 and 2009/4, the last two of which refer to best available techniques (bat). decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 include seven new substances, update the implementation obligations for a number of substances, update the limitations on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs from different sources and add pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations. the amendments to the protocol, already largely covered by eu legislation, will be further transposed by the revision of the directive setting national emission ceilings (necs) for certain air pollutants and establishing annual national emission inventories, currently under way. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals. the convention on air pollution is the first legally binding international instrument in this field, as it has established a framework for controlling and reducing the damage caused to the human environment by the spread of pollutants. over the years, the convention has been extended by eight protocols, which have ensured a more effective approach, focusing mainly on the phasing out of leaded petrol and reducing mercury concentration levels in alkaline batteries and other products such as measuring devices. the accession of the european community to the latter protocol was approved in april 2001, but the text has been reviewed in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the obligations provided for, in particular by setting stricter limit values for dust emissions from some large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions for the benefit of the parties acceding by the end of 2019. the recommendation accepts these amendments and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the amendments to the aarhus protocol on heavy metals, which i believe will achieve a higher level of protection of health and the environment. the aim of these amendments is to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of a number of heavy metals into the atmosphere, with particular regard to emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration. the amendments also provide that the protocol in question should set stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the measure because i believe that its ratification will be a decisive step towards ever-increasing protection of public health and the environment from the possible harm of crossborder pollution. the commission proposes that the council approve the amendment to the aarhus protocol to the 1979 convention. this protocol regulates the reduction and control of emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, heavy metals which are easily liable to cross-border air pollution. the protocol requires the parties to reduce the total annual amount of emissions of these heavy metals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because it incorporates principles already enshrined and confirmed by this parliament in other regulatory contexts. president la via has done a very good job of coordinating the parliamentary process of this measure.
in writing. ‒ considering that the 1998 protocol to the convention in question responds to the need to tackle the problem of air pollution, i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council resolution amending the said protocol. the amendments were not only considered to be fully consistent with the legal powers of the european union, but also to be a positive development in the regulation, particularly as regards the limitation of the presence of heavy metals in the atmosphere. this progress will benefit all european citizens by ensuring a higher level of health.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention aims to reduce and control emissions of seven new substances, including emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere. the parties are required to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals to levels below 1990 levels. studies on air pollutants in the 1970s already highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution. i believe that ratification of the amendments to the 1998 protocol is not only useful but also indispensable and necessary. the who revealed in a 2010 study that in italy's big cities, due to the high concentration of fine particulate matter, more than 8,000 people die every year. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution, for which i voted in favour, approves the amendments to the protocol on heavy metals to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the proposed amendments set stricter limits on transboundary emissions than those set out in the protocol to the convention in order to better prevent air pollution and its effects on human health.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has been an important step forward in protecting human health and the environment, especially with regard to the threats from air pollution. numerous studies have shown that pollutants can reach areas thousands of miles away, making it an international problem. once again, this problem must necessarily be addressed at european level and it is therefore essential to consider the welfare of european society as a whole by avoiding falling into the defence of national egos linked to particular production processes or economic interests in heavy metals. these amendments will help to raise the level of protection of human health and reduce the risk of dangerous diseases. i therefore vote in favour of this measure in order to give a fresh impetus to the european union's commitment to environmental issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to revise national emission limits for certain air pollutants.
in writing. the unece convention on transboundary air pollution aims to limit and prevent air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment. the aarhus protocol (1998) and its subsequent amendments have further extended the scope of the convention; it has the function of reducing and controlling emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. i would point out that the council decisions on the amendment of the protocol are closely linked to the best available techniques. in this connection, there is an obligation on farms to apply the best available techniques to reduce emissions to air, water and soil, as well as the production of waste. eu legislation already covers almost all the legislative instruments concerning the matters covered by the aarhus protocol and its subsequent amendments, which we are discussing today. i therefore asked my colleagues to give their consent to the council's decision, with a view to formally adopting the amendments to the protocol on behalf of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals. the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution is one of the first legally binding international instruments to limit, gradually reduce and prevent air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment. the convention on air pollution has been extended by eight protocols, including the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals. the ratification of the amendments to this protocol will ensure greater protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the unece convention on transboundary air pollution aims to limit and prevent air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment. the aarhus protocol and its subsequent amendments have further extended the scope of the convention by reducing and controlling emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. i have decided to vote in favour of the council decision because i consider it a decisive step towards increasing protection of public health and the environment from the possible damage of pollution.
in writing. ‒ air pollution was already the subject of a study in 1972. several studies showed that air pollutants could be transported thousands of kilometres before being deposited, which highlighted the need to address this problem at international level. the aarhus protocol on heavy metals was established with the aim of reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions. in this connection, a convention was established and implemented to monitor, through a monitoring and transport evaluation programme. over the years, the convention has been expanded to define specific measures that parties must take to reduce air pollution emissions. as a member of the envi parliamentary committee and being sensitive to environmental issues, i am voting in favour of ratifying this convention, certain that it will be an important step forward towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was created to protect the environment and public health. the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument adopted in this field. it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. over the years, the convention has been expanded by eight protocols, which define specific measures that the parties must take to reduce emissions of air pollutants. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration. i voted in favour of all of this. since the union has already adopted legislative instruments concerning matters covered by the aarhus protocol, those amendments should now be formally adopted on behalf of the union. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament transposes into eu law the amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning lead, cadmium and mercury. the convention, signed in 1979, establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. the 1998 amendments to the protocol set stricter limit values for dust emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration. i voted in favour of the recommendation because ratification of these amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the adoption of decision 2012/5, amending the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals. we recognize that this protocol has made a substantial contribution to the elimination of three harmful metals such as lead, cadmium and mercury. it has significantly reduced emissions from industry, energy production, transport and waste incineration by using the best available technologies and reducing leaded petrol and mercury in alkaline batteries and measuring instruments. we believe that the adaptation of the protocol made by the amendment can strengthen its action and effectiveness. in particular, stricter limits are imposed for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources and new parties are encouraged to accede to the amended protocol by 2019, especially in eastern and south-eastern europe. we hope that the parties will ratify decision 2012/5 as soon as possible and commit to fostering the technological improvement necessary to protect the health of citizens and the environment from transboundary air pollution. we will also ensure that the adaptation to the protocol in both eastern and western europe is accompanied by transitional measures to make industrial and energy production, transport and waste incineration more sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. several studies between 1972 and 1977 had shown that air pollutants could be transported thousands of kilometres before being deposited, which highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level. the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument adopted in this field: it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols. the eighth protocol, for the first time, covers a variety of pollutants and effects and provides for specific national emission limits as well as reduction commitments for various substances. the amended protocol sets more stringent limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources. the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation and their ratification will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ studies conducted in the 1970s showed that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres, causing enormous damage to human health and the environment. the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution sought to combat this phenomenon by developing a framework for pollution reduction and control. the adoption of eight successive protocols has modified the original text, updating the list of prohibited substances and tightening the emission limits, especially for those substances, referred to as 'dioxins', produced by human and natural activities. for these reasons i voted in favour of the amendments which strengthen prevention policies and lay down additional parameters and obligations, so as to protect not only the environment but also the health of all citizens in an efficient way.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants was a major step forward in protecting the environment and the health of citizens. the restrictions on the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) were linked to the obligation to use the best available techniques and to properly dispose of and transport pollutants that have become waste. today i voted in favour of the la via report on amendments to the 1998 protocol, which relates to the ratification by the contracting parties of the 2009 decisions amending certain aspects of the protocol. the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation and represent an improvement on international standards in this area, which is why i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr la via is well thought out and worthy of sharing. the proposed amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol aim to reduce and better control both emissions of 'heavy metals' and 'persistent organic pollutants'. i believe that it is essential to strengthen the existing legislation, which will certainly bring greater protection for both the environment and the health of our citizens. i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to control emissions, spills and discharges of persistent organic pollutants, with action to reduce the use of ddt and other harmful substances. in addition to updating the obligations on emission limitations and adding other harmful substances subject to reduction obligations, the amendment to the protocol also provides for specific exemptions and flexible terms for economies in transition, in order to facilitate ratification by all. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which approves the amendments and calls for stronger protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution from persistent organic pollutants and the protocols thereto are fundamental documents for the protection of the environment and human health and that it is therefore the union's responsibility to ensure their full implementation.
in writing. ‒ since 1972, we have known that air pollutants are transported thousands of kilometres before they are deposited, which highlighted the need to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level as early as 1979, with the signing of the convention on transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983. it establishes a common framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. the european parliament is today expected to support the commission's proposal to update the 1998 protocol to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclodexane (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) and to reduce the total annual emissions of aromatic polycyclic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb) into the atmosphere: the parties are required to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals to levels below 1990 levels and emission limit values are defined for certain large fixed sources, as well as requiring states to apply best available techniques (bat). it is important to support all efforts to curb air pollution and protect the health of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and releases of persistent organic pollutants (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexane (hch), polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdf) and hexachlorobenzene (hcb)). in december 2009, the protocol was amended by decisions 2009/1, 2009/2, 2009/3 and 2009/4, the last two of which refer to best available techniques (bat). decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 include seven new substances, update the implementation obligations for a number of substances, update the limitations on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs from different sources and add pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations. the amendments to the protocol, already largely covered by eu legislation, will be further transposed by the revision of the directive setting national emission ceilings (necs) for certain air pollutants and establishing annual national emission inventories, currently under way. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. the problem of long-range transboundary air pollution has been addressed at international level by the convention signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. over the years, it has been extended by eight protocols, such as the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants, which was established with the aim of controlling, reducing or eliminating discharges, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants, limiting the use of many substances compared to the pre-1990 period. the amendments to the protocol, already largely covered by eu legislation, will be further implemented by a new directive updating national emission limits for certain air pollutants and establishing annual national emission inventories.
in writing. ‒ the amendments to the protocol to the convention on long-range air pollution include the inclusion of as many as seven new persistent pollutants, update the implementation obligations and limitations of total annual emissions of dioxins/furans (pcdd/f) from different sources, and provide for the addition of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations. this is therefore an important step towards an international approach to the problems caused by air pollution and i voted in favour of ratifying these amendments with great conviction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments because i believe that the problems caused by air pollution must be tackled at european level. the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control and reduce discharges and emissions of these substances. this vote marks important steps towards protecting the environment and combating pollution, fundamental objectives which the european union must pursue at supranational and national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because, in addition to confirming principles that i agree with and which are already part of other legislative measures, it goes in the direction of improving air quality and better protecting the health of citizens. given the obvious advantages, i made this voting decision lightly.
in writing. ‒ since the 1970s, studies have been conducted on the environmental and human health hazards of the release of persistent organic pollutants into the atmosphere. since then, the subject has continued to evolve as new issues and problems have arisen. the ratification of the amendments to the protocol on persistent organic pollutants, to which the union acceded in 2004, is important in order not to hinder the progress made towards continuous improvement of regulations on persistent organic pollutants. the amendments will enable eu citizens to live in an increasingly healthy environment, and for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution, which i voted for, approves the amendments to the protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. the proposed amendments set stricter limits on transboundary emissions than those set out in the protocol to the convention in order to better prevent air pollution and its effects on human health.
in writing. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. the convention entrusts the secretariat of the executive secretariat of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) with the secretariat functions. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols. this decision, which entered into force on 23 october 2003, was transposed into eu law by several instruments and was amended by decisions 2009/1, 2009/2, 2009/3 and 2009/4, the latter two of which relate to bat. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the implementation obligations for a number of substances, updates the limitations on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs from different sources and adds pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations, ensuring a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to revise the national emission limits for certain persistent organic pollutants.
in writing. the 1998 aarhus protocol further extends the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution to include persistent organic pollutants. it therefore aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the limits on emissions of pcdd/pcdfs and adds pcbs to the list of substances subject to annual emission limits and reporting obligations. in this second case too, i asked my colleagues to give their consent to the council's decision, in order to formally adopt the amendments to the protocol, which are already largely covered by european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol further extends the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution to include persistent organic pollutants and aims to control and reduce discharges and emissions of these substances. i voted in favour of this so that we can move forward in the direction of protecting the environment and combating pollution, which are fundamental objectives which the european union must pursue.
in writing. ‒ in 1983, the convention on air pollution came into force, the first legally binding international instrument in this field. the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants was subsequently established in 1998 with the aim of controlling, reducing or eliminating discharges, emissions and spills of these pollutants. the convention has had its results and i therefore express my positive and confident vote on this project.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, aims to protect the human environment from air pollution and is the first legally binding international instrument adopted in this field. it establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. over the years, the convention has been expanded by eight protocols, which define specific measures that the parties must take to reduce emissions of air pollutants. the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and spills of persistent organic pollutants. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates the implementation obligations for a number of substances, updates the limitations on emissions of dioxins/furans from different sources and adds polychlorinated biphenyls to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations. i consider that the amendments to the amendments to the protocol (08648/2015 add 1) are fully consistent with the existing eu legislation and constitute an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. i voted in favour of all of this.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament is transposing into eu law the amendments to the 1998 aarhus protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. the convention, signed in 1979, establishes a framework for controlling and reducing the harm caused by transboundary air pollution to human health and the environment. the amendments to the 1998 protocol include seven new pollutants, update the implementation obligations for a number of substances, update the limitations on emissions of dioxins/furans from different sources and add polychlorinated biphenyls to the list of substances subject to annual emission limitations and reporting obligations. i voted in favour of the recommendation because ratification of these amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the adoption of decisions 2009/1 and 2009/1 amending the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants. we recognise that this protocol has been an important tool in countering acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone, providing for the first time national emission limits for ddt, hch and pcbs and commitments to reduce ipa, pcdd/pcdf and hcp through best available technologies (bat). we believe that updating the protocol and broadening its scope can enhance its effectiveness. in particular, it covers seven new substances, adjusts the implementation obligations and sets emission limits and stricter controls for pcbs and pcdd/pcdfs. this is a necessary and important step forward in protecting the health of citizens and the environment from transboundary air pollution. we will ensure that the flexibility in emission benchmarks and the time-limits for the application of emission limit values and bats given to those economies in transition that are party to the protocol does not undermine its effectiveness. we hope that the parties will ratify decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 as soon as possible and commit themselves to promoting the technological improvement necessary to protect the health of citizens and the environment.
in writing. ‒ in a time like the one europe is currently experiencing, it is really necessary to cooperate in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the security of european citizens must be a priority for the european union, and therefore agreements between eurojust and third countries fit perfectly into the changed geopolitical landscape of today. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the proposal for the approval of an agreement between eurojust and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ enhancing eu action in the fight against terrorism and organised crime must be a priority, which is why i voted today in favour of the kauffman report on the draft council decision approving the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the technical text of the agreement provides for a strengthened exchange of information process and various operational provisions such as the secondment of a ukrainian liaison officer. in general, the text represents an opportunity to strengthen the union's action, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ while i consider it essential that agreements be concluded between eurojust and third countries to strengthen the fight against transnational crime, i do not share the positions taken in this text, which is addressed to ukraine. given the delicate geopolitical situation and the fact that the eu has taken sides in a territorial dispute between third countries, even going so far as to decide to impose economic sanctions against russia, which have caused enormous damage to our businesses and production in our territories, i did not intend to support this text and abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine has many positive aspects from different points of view. the agreement provides support to ukraine by bringing it closer to the eu and is an important tool in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the fight against international crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe, it is useful to activate the cooperation agreement between the joint supervisory authority eurojust and the republic of ukraine. the european parliament must be in favour of concluding this cooperation agreement with ukraine because, given the seriousness with which the bilateral dialogue has been conducted and the implications, including political ones, it entails, it is a help and support in the fight against the serious forms of crime which characterize many of the territories of eastern europe and would contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, particularly in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements between eurojust and third countries is mainly aimed at strengthening the fight against transnational crime. but since it is ukraine and given the delicate geopolitical situation and in order to avoid exploitation towards a state which is neither democratic nor respectful of the gas agreements, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the project aims to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of organised crime, in particular criminal and terrorist associations, including through the secondment by ukraine of a liaison officer to eurojust and the automatic exchange of information, including personal data. the cooperation agreement with ukraine provides assistance and support in the fight against serious crime and contributes to strengthening judicial cooperation, in particular in the field of organised crime and terrorism. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ parliament was consulted on the conclusion of the eurojust-ukraine agreement aimed at improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the text of the agreement, if it is signed, will cover not only the exchange of information but also very operational aspects, such as ukraine's secondment of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine as i am convinced that there is an operational need to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the measure establishes cooperation between the ukrainian national authority and eurojust, which takes the form of a series of measures including the secondment of national experts to the european institutions and the exchange of data.
in writing. ‒ if the legal systems are compartmentalized, people commit crimes, the injured report, if they trust the system, the investigators investigate and, if they manage to accumulate evidence, punishment is applied. in order to defuse this chain, we must prevent the consumption of crime and one of the mandatory steps is to try to stop the entry into the state of persons prone to crime. in other words, we must avoid importing crime. an agreement with neighbouring countries to improve their legal systems, which is part of this approach, is a good way of cooperating and, on the basis of these considerations, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the project concerns the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine with the aim of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. there are provisions concerning operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine such as: the exchange of information (including personal data) or the secondment by ukraine of a liaison officer to eurojust. this type of judicial cooperation between the european union and third countries supports and helps the difficult fight against the various forms of transnational crime, and i therefore felt i had to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the draft council implementing decision on the proposal for the approval of an agreement between eurojust and ukraine, with the aim of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust by ukraine and the exchange of information. denmark, the united kingdom and ireland are taking part in the adoption and application of this decision. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the decision approved a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe that it is essential to prevent and combat crime in a way that only the exchange of information between security systems can guarantee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft implementing decision for a cooperation agreement between eurojust, ukraine and montenegro, in order to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. i believe that effective and operational cooperation between european agencies and states is the right direction to take in dealing with the terrorist threat which affects all actors on the international scene. the european union must make its voice heard and take concrete action to this end.
in writing. ‒ i abstain as the eu should review its foreign policy in the area between ukraine and russia before concluding new agreements.
in writing. the european union is engaged on a daily basis in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal to approve the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, as it further strengthens judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime and corruption. i welcome any bilateral or multilateral agreement aimed at preventing the further strengthening of the activities of organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the proposal aims to improve and strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious transnational crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the agreement would also help and support the fight against serious crime and would contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation in europe, particularly in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur on intensifying the fight against organised crime and terrorism. judicial cooperation between the eu and ukraine will allow a further step in this direction. today, the exchange of information between competent authorities is essential in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, which as we know, has no geographical boundaries.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eurojust-ukraine cooperation agreement, as it further strengthens judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the measure establishes cooperation between the ukrainian national authority and eurojust, which takes the form of a series of measures including the secondment of national experts to the european institutions and the exchange of data.
in writing. ‒ the issue of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, is a key issue for the european union. i am confident that the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine will improve judicial cooperation in the fight against these forms of crime, and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. this agreement provides aid and support to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the joint text provides for the secondment by ukraine of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ today's vote is even more interesting in light of the government crisis that erupted in kiev on wednesday due to the resignation of the minister of economy who accused him of not being able to continue working because of corruption and the prevalence of personal interests over those of the country. the agreement will enable eurojust to cooperate with ukraine on serious crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today concerns the approval of the proposal for a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation and the exchange of information and personal data. i have decided to vote in favour of this report in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and combating of the most serious forms of international crime in europe and in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ in order to intensify and improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, it is essential to conclude the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information and data by ukraine is of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ improving judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism is now more than ever a priority for the european union. the only way to counter these threats is to work with anyone who can help us in this fight. the draft agreement between eurojust and montenegro provides, among other provisions, for the secondment by montenegro of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust and, of course, for the exchange of information. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the report, hoping that this cooperation will produce results in both the short and the long term.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the report on the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the text largely contains operational measures aimed at strengthening cooperation between the union and the balkan country in judicial matters. particular attention is paid to the fight against corruption and serious crime. i therefore consider the agreement very positive and share its objectives and have therefore decided to vote in favour of the griesbeck report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that an operational agreement on the exchange of data and information between eurojust and montenegro will significantly strengthen the fight against transnational crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro has many positive aspects from different points of view. this agreement is a further step in the process of accession for montenegro and an important instrument in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament must be in favour of the conclusion of this cooperation agreement with the republic of montenegro because the contracting parties have responded positively to all the requests of the relevant committees and because of the particular role that montenegro can play in the management of the migration flows from south-east europe, as well as the practical contribution that the agreement can make to the fight against the serious forms of crime that characterize many territories in eastern europe and the balkans. strengthening the fight against international crime and improving judicial cooperation in europe is important for the security of our citizens and that is why we must activate the cooperation agreement between the joint supervisory authority eurojust and the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements between eurojust and third countries is mainly aimed at strengthening the fight against transnational crime. i voted in favour of an operational agreement which would involve the exchange of information and data.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the project aims to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular criminal, subversive and terrorist organisations, by creating and strengthening mechanisms to make effective and automatic the exchange of personal data and information between the institutions involved in the fight against and repression of the different criminal organisations. considering that there is a clear operational need to establish effective cooperation between eurojust and montenegro and that the cooperation agreement introduces all the provisions to support this process, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report provides parliament's opinion on the criminal justice cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the important aim of this is to include this country in the efforts to combat serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. i voted in favour of the report recommending that the agreement be signed.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the reason for my choice is my firm conviction that there is an urgent need to improve the efficiency of judicial cooperation between the contracting parties in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the measure establishes cooperation between the montenegrin national authority and eurojust, which is implemented in a series of measures. one of the main provisions of the agreement provides for the secondment of national experts to the european institutions and the exchange of information between the competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is a state which for years has unwittingly served smugglers of arms, illicit substances and people (including former war criminals) as a logistical base to reach italy and with it europe. if we want to stop this traffic, we must help the montenegrin judiciary to be more efficient, and that is exactly the spirit of this agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision because it will help to achieve the objective of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. in addition, the agreement provides for provisions that will facilitate the exchange of data between the european justice system and the montenegrin authorities and provides for the secondment by montenegro of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the draft council implementing decision on the proposal for the approval of an agreement between eurojust and montenegro, with the aim of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment by montenegro of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust and the exchange of information. denmark, the united kingdom and ireland are taking part in the adoption and application of this decision. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro because, in a situation such as the one we are experiencing of extreme mobility at european borders, we must aim to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. the exchange of information, including personal data, with montenegro will allow for a synergy that has not been possible until now to combat even the most odious forms of trafficking such as human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the agreement which aims to increase security and the exchange of information and data with third countries.
in writing. the draft we are discussing today concerns the proposal for the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the main aim is to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. in particular, the acc (the joint supervisory authority of eurojust) is satisfied with the provisions on the exchange of personal data provided for in the draft agreement. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolution because the eu needs more support from other countries than ever before in order to combat all forms of transnational crime.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. council decision 2002/187/jha establishes eurojust as a body of the european union with legal personality with the objective of stimulating and improving coordination and cooperation between the competent judicial authorities of the member states. the eurojust-montenegro agreement is of fundamental importance as it provides support and assistance for european judicial cooperation and the fight against serious forms of crime such as organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i support the eurojust-montenegro agreement and renew my wish for a more effective and efficient fight against organised crime and terrorism. the exchange of information with the union's neighbours is becoming increasingly important in order to achieve a safer europe free of any criminal organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the main objective is to improve judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, including through the secondment of national experts to the european institutions and the exchange of information between the competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe, there is a clear operational need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. that is why i am speaking positively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving this cooperation agreement because there is a clear operational need for cooperation between eurojust and montenegro in order to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and improve judicial cooperation in europe. the agreement provides for the secondment by montenegro of a liaison officer to eurojust and for the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague to launch the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro aimed at improving the fight against serious crime and, above all, terrorism. this cooperation will also be possible through the possibility of seconding officials from montenegro to eurojust to ensure that there is a real exchange of information between the two entities. we hope that the council, which is the co-legislator of this report with the european parliament, will also approve this text so that it can have its full effect.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today concerns the approval of the proposal for a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation and the exchange of information and personal data. i have decided to vote in favour of this report in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and combating of the most serious forms of international crime in europe and montenegro.
in writing. ‒ fighting all serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, is a primary interest of the european union and all member states, which is why i welcome the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. any action to improve judicial cooperation, and in particular, as provided for in the agreement, the secondment by montenegro of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust, is of fundamental importance for the security of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report we voted on today concerns the draft council implementing decision on the proposal for the approval of an agreement between eurojust and montenegro, with the aim of improving judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment by montenegro of a liaison prosecutor to eurojust and the exchange of information. the libe committee recommended that parliament approve the draft council decision. the latter shall approve by a qualified majority international cooperation agreements concluded by eurojust with third countries. the council is, however, obliged to consult parliament on the approval but is not bound by the position expressed.
in writing. ‒ robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, you are accused of violating the highway code and the administrative code of the republic of poland by exceeding the speed limit in a populated area. this type of violation does not fall within the cover of diplomatic immunity as it is not in any way inherent in the parliamentary activity of the member. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the offence committed by mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz does not fall by its type and manner among the cases covered by the parliamentary immunity regime and that, therefore, mr iwaszkiewicz's parliamentary immunity should be waived.
in writing. - i vote for it. violation of polish traffic code. there are no prerequisites for the protection provided by parliament.
in writing. ‒ the request for leave to proceed from the prosecutor general of the republic of poland against mr jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz concerns a proceeding concerning speeding offences. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of this because these are matters which are entirely outside the scope of the guarantee of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's proposal to waive the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz because i consider that the alleged infringement has no direct and obvious connection with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that parliament has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ considering that the european parliament's committee on legal affairs has followed the procedures correctly for the verification of the conditions for the immunity claim by mr iwaszkiewicz and that this verification has shown that the immunity has no legal basis to be invoked in this specific case, i agree with the assessment of the committee on legal affairs and i am in favour of the waiver of the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of the immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as i consider that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ regarding the parliament's proposal to waive the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, i voted in favour as i consider that the alleged infringement has no direct link with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ given the action taken by mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, i am voting in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 13 august 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament the request of the chief of the municipal police to grant the authorisation to open judicial proceedings against mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. the reason for this request is allegedly a high rate of speeding while driving a car dating back to 7 september 2014. in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity so that the polish authorities can proceed with the verification of whether or not there has been a traffic offence.
in writing. ‒ robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, you are accused of violating the highway code and the administrative code of the republic of poland by exceeding the speed limit in a populated area. this type of violation does not fall within the cover of diplomatic immunity as it is not in any way inherent in the parliamentary activity of the member. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the offence committed by mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz does not fall by its type and manner among the cases covered by the parliamentary immunity regime and that, therefore, mr iwaszkiewicz's parliamentary immunity should be waived.
in writing. - i vote for it. violation of polish traffic code. there are no prerequisites for the protection provided by parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is a guarantee of the freedom and independence of members of parliament and not a personal benefit. the matters on which the polish prosecutor general intends to bring proceedings against mr jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz do not concern the performance of his duties as a member of parliament, but certain violations of the traffic code. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's proposal to waive the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. as in the previous case, i believe that the infringement covered by the measure has no direct and obvious causal link with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i also believe that parliament cannot find in the circumstances of the case evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ considering that the european parliament's committee on legal affairs has followed the procedures correctly for the verification of the conditions for the immunity claim by mr iwaszkiewicz and that this verification has shown that the immunity has no legal basis to be invoked in this specific case, i agree with the assessment of the committee on legal affairs and i am in favour of the waiver of the immunity.
in writing. ‒ robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, a member of the efdd group, is accused of having violated on two separate occasions (ref. proc. n. i'm not sure. the year is 2014. the 'technology' for the 'development' of 'software' is defined in point 2 of annex i to regulation (eu) no 748/2012. the year is 2014. 9.a.0475) the road and administrative code of the republic of poland when exceeding the speed limit in a populated area. the rapporteur believes that this type of breach does not fall within the scope of diplomatic immunity, since it is not in any way connected with the parliamentary activity of the member. on the other hand, mr iwaszkiewicz did not appear in the juri committee for his defence but (as reported by mr svoboda) sent a message in which he essentially left the committee to decide on the matter. the juri committee supported the rapporteur's request to waive the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz in both proceedings. my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of the immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, as i consider that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ regarding the parliament's proposal to waive the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, i voted in favour because i consider that the alleged infringement has no obvious connection with the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ given the action taken by mep robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, i am voting in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, because i believe that it is appropriate to allow the polish prosecutor general to carry out the appropriate investigations. robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz is accused of speeding in his home country. the charge relates to august 21, 2014. however, i would like to stress that my vote in favour of this recall does not imply a judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the member.
in writing. ‒ mep florian philippot has been accused of defamation by the state of qatar. my colleague philippot, in a radio program that aired on january 9, 2015, and in a television program that aired on january 9, 2015, insinuated that qatar was funding terrorism. i have decided to vote in favour of this motion because i believe that such statements fall within the scope of parliamentary immunity, which is granted for speech in official meetings of parliament but also in other places, for example in interviews with the media.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the facts attributed to mr philippot are covered by the parliamentary immunity rule and that it cannot therefore be waived in these circumstances.
in writing. ‒ mr philippot is accused by the government of a third state, namely qatar, of having defamed that state in a radio broadcast of 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast of 19 january 2015, by insinuating that that state would finance terrorism. the committee on legal affairs itself has also recognized, on the basis of the regulation, that there are extremes to maintain immunity. i vote for the grant of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by our rapporteur in the committee on legal affairs not to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr florian philippot. the statements by which the member of the european parliament allegedly insinuated that the state of qatar is financing terrorism are in fact fully covered by the freedom of expression covered by parliamentary immunity, which must be considered as guaranteed not only during official meetings of parliament but on any other public occasion, including interviews with the media.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i do not believe that the legal and substantive conditions are met for the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot to be waived.
in writing. ‒ i agree with my fellow rapporteur, laura ferrara, on the request to waive mr philippot's immunity, since statements by mr philippot in the political sphere on the foreign policy of the european union and of third countries are part of the duties of a member of the european parliament. since the conditions for waiver do not exist, i am in favour of the decision not to waive the honourable member's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ florian philippot has been accused of defamation by the state of qatar for allegedly insinuating, during a radio program aired on 9 january 2015 and in a television program aired on 9 january 2015, that qatar finances terrorism. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter, and that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr j.m.s. bachelet, on behalf of the european union, on the implementation of the council decision of 28 june 2014 on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (oj l 295, 30.10.2014, p. my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have opposed the request for the waiver of mr florian philippot's immunity, as i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ given the action taken by mr florian philippot, i am voting in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ mr philippot is accused by the government of a third country, namely qatar, of having defamed that state in a radio broadcast on 9 january 2015 and a television broadcast on 19 january 2015, by insinuating that that state would finance terrorism. article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 26 of the constitution of the french republic prohibit any civil or criminal proceedings against a member for opinions expressed in the performance of his duties. moreover, for a member of the european parliament, this immunity covers not only the opinions expressed by the member in official meetings of the parliament, but also opinions expressed elsewhere, for example in the media, where there is a link between the opinion expressed and parliamentary functions. i therefore consider that there are no grounds for revoking mr philippot's immunity and that is why i am voting for this decision today.
a 2014 eurobarometer survey shows that at least one in ten european citizens have purchased goods or services obtained from undeclared work. but the fact i want to emphasize today is that no country can give lessons in morality and balance. if the european country with the highest percentage of black workers is greece, then next in the ranking are unlikely countries like the netherlands, denmark, luxembourg and sweden. the lives of workers are at stake, since the construction sector is the one with the highest incidence of undeclared work. the new european platform to discourage undeclared work is a good first step towards a europe of citizens and workers. however, the data tells us that 60% of people who agree to pay in cash do so because they spend less. the platform will then necessarily have to be accompanied by concrete measures with a real impact on the labour market. i shall mention two in particular: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ about one in ten european citizens admit to having bought goods or services obtained through undeclared work in the previous year, while 4% admit to having personally received black money payments as payment for work done. the european commission has defined underground work as any activity which is lawful in nature but not declared to the public authorities. the european parliament's proposal for a european platform aims to prevent and discourage undeclared work by sharing good practice and assessments from member states. the establishment of cooperation between national governments, by encouraging alternative forms of dialogue between institutions, workers and employers, can certainly play a key role in combating these illegal practices. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ underground work is one of the most serious problems in european employment, affecting millions of workers in all member states and which seems to be increasing alarmingly as a result of the crisis. recent research has shown a strong correlation between growth in the shadow economy and austerity policies, opening up complex scenarios on the overall assessment of the impact of austerity policies. these data require the union to identify a rapid and effective response to the problem. the pirinski report goes in that direction, identifying the fight against undeclared work, tax evasion and breaches of safety rules as priorities for the near future. the establishment of a european platform is the first element of a broader strategy involving member states, the union and civil society, which cannot simply demand the application of the rules but must commit itself to the development of proactive policies. only through a system of incentives can the millions of jobs now hidden in the shadow economy be brought back into formal employment.
in writing. ‒ i support the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and discouraging undeclared work. since the principle of free movement of workers and services and the phenomenon of 'posting of workers' have created the problem of crossborder undeclared work, with enormous damage to our territories, i believe it is the eu's task to find an effective and shared solution, which is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today is in line with the union's social and labour policy objectives, with the aim of making cooperation between member states more effective in combating undeclared work. in addition to worsening working conditions and depriving workers of the basic protections to which they are entitled, both in terms of social and health benefits and pension rights, undeclared work has distortive effects on competition and extremely harmful fiscal consequences, which affect society as a whole and the entire economic and social system. as this form of work represents a significant part of the union's economy, albeit to a varying extent from one member state to another, i welcome the establishment of a platform to discourage this practice through better cooperation between the member states' supervisory authorities, the constant exchange of information and best practice, in the awareness and respect of the principle of subsidiarity and therefore of the competences of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i firmly believe that undeclared work is a very pressing and current problem affecting our economic system and that the establishment of a european platform for the strengthening of cooperation aimed at preventing and discouraging undeclared work is an important first step in the fight against this phenomenon which limits the growth of our economies.
in writing. - submerged work is precarious work, without protection. this is a job that escapes the control of the institutions and often puts the worker in a position of serious precariousness, subordination and danger, also causing a significant shortfall in public funds with a consequent negative impact on public services and the taxation of the population. the union and the member states need to cooperate more closely in combating labour law violations, tax evasion and breaches of social security provisions, which have reached worrying proportions in certain areas. combating undeclared work means protecting workers' health and safety and safeguarding fiscal justice and public services: let's work on that.
in writing. - i vote for it. this platform operates on the false line of a committee. while there is a risk that it will propose 'more europe' in a field of competence shared between the eu and the member states, it must also be recognised that, since the principle of free movement of workers and services (e.g. 'posting of workers') has created the problem of crossborder undeclared work, the need to find solutions at union level has arisen. it would be ideal if membership of the member states were made optional.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european commission decision establishing a european platform for enhanced cooperation to prevent and deter undeclared work. underground work has many negative consequences: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the new european platform is therefore welcome, and should provide added value in preventing and discouraging undeclared work, but also, and perhaps even more so, in regularizing the jobs concerned. the commission's proposal provides for a rules-based approach. this approach is certainly in the right direction. however, in line with the report, i believe that the application of the rules should be accompanied by proactive measures and policies based on incentives to promote the regularisation of undeclared jobs. we are talking, for example, about income tax relief, tax breaks and subsidy schemes.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the european platform to combat undeclared work. this is an initiative whose main objective is to strengthen cooperation between the competent bodies in the member states by sharing best practice. the platform will be composed of one representative per member state, a maximum of four representatives at eu level of cross-industry social partners equally divided between workers and employers' organisations and the commission. the overall objective is to contribute to improving working conditions and social inclusion, and i therefore voted for it.
in writing. ‒ underground work is a major challenge for the european union today. this is a very complex issue, linked to the very nature of the phenomenon and the serious repercussions it has on working conditions, fair competition, investment by businesses and public budgets. in this regard, it is necessary to highlight the close link between underground work and organised crime, which in different regions of the union operates a dense network of activities many of which are transnational in nature which are harmful to the financial interests of the union, undermine the sound and effective use of public funds and, more generally, damage the entire economic system as a whole. the establishment of a european platform, through the exchange of information and the sharing of good practices, can help to discourage the occurrence of the phenomenon of undeclared work, to regularize the situation of millions of european workers, ensuring them access to the necessary services, and to define a sustainable fiscal stabilisation. only where there is law and respect for rules is there fairness and transparency and job opportunities for all. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i felt it was my duty to vote in favour of the measure as i am convinced of the importance of providing clear added value at union level to the efforts not only to prevent and discourage undeclared work but also to regularise the jobs concerned. these policies are all the more necessary in the light of recent research by the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound), which finds a strong correlation between the size and growth of the shadow economy on the one hand, and austerity policies characterised by drastic budget cuts, increased deregulation and a minimised role for the state on the other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is appropriate that undeclared work should not become an additional instrument of trade policy for the least-compliant states, while we, who are already not doing well, continue to do ourselves harm both by ourselves and through the infringements that are brought to our attention. in particular, i hope that the platform will define common criteria for tolerance, because i firmly believe that underground work, to some extent, must be tolerated: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, this tolerance must not be abused and i would be glad to see this consideration applied uniformly throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ underground work is one of the most complex and worrying issues facing the european parliament. in its proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european platform, the commission has given priority to the rules-based approach to preventing and discouraging undeclared work. in this way, the strategy is based on enhanced cooperation in combating labour law violations, tax evasion and violations of social security provisions, but also on proactive incentive-based measures and policies to promote the regularisation of undeclared jobs, such as income tax reliefs, tax breaks and subsidy schemes. in this context, i voted in favour of the establishment of a european platform which will make it possible to provide clear added value at european union level to the efforts not only to prevent and discourage undeclared work but also to regularize the jobs concerned.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the platform is to encourage closer cooperation between the relevant bodies in the member states dealing with the problem of undeclared work. the scope and rules vary between member states. the platform will meet at least twice a year in plenary session and there will be working groups to address specific issues related to underwater work. the aim is to encourage cooperation (essentially through the sharing of best practice and the development of assessments) between member states, without having any operational powers. member states will decide on the level of their participation in this platform. each member state may appoint only one representative (and one substitute); the social partners are also expected to participate (4 permanent representatives and 14 observers). multiple high-level representatives appointed by all member states, a maximum of four representatives at eu level of cross-industry social partners. the overall objective is to contribute to improving working conditions, promoting integration into the labour market and promoting social inclusion. the platform covers all forms of undeclared work, including bogus self-employment. i consider it a good proposal and therefore i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the initiative on undeclared work and i am convinced of the need for strong cooperation between european states to combat its causes and limit its scope. recent surveys estimate the impact of the 'dipping' on the european economy at around 18% of gdp, with a range varying widely between the different member states (from a minimum of 8% to a maximum of 30%). until now, the fight against this phenomenon has been the responsibility of national bodies, which have little power in relation to a strongly transnational phenomenon. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's social policy. tax evasion and unfair competition, which impose costs on public finances; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the unemployed, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals.
in writing. ‒ submerged work is a plague on the european market and constitutes a significant part of it, estimated at over 18% of the eu's gdp. this phenomenon is still widespread and is undermining our social protection systems, depriving our governments of tax revenue and exposing workers to poor working conditions, with negative consequences for the competitiveness of the european market as a whole. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council because it has the merit of establishing a european platform to prevent and discourage this practice. a new instrument which will provide the legal framework for more effective action to combat undeclared work by strengthening and improving operational cooperation between member states and facilitating the sharing of information and good practice. this first step, which i consider to be a positive one, should be followed in the coming months by targeted action at european level, particularly aimed at the most vulnerable groups, such as immigrants or younger workers, who are often forced to accept precarious working conditions with lower earnings and no protection of their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ black labour, underground work, and employment falsely claimed as selfemployed are very serious realities in the lives of workers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. that is why i voted in favour of the creation of this platform, which aims to combat these phenomena, not only by combating misconduct but also by disseminating best practices and preventive and proactive policies to promote the regularisation of jobs and to avoid undeclared work. the platform will fill a gap at european level and allow for more effective cooperation between those who face underwater work on a daily basis. an important step towards the europe of solidarity and growth we want to build
in writing. ‒ work is not only an economic and profit-making activity but is the main means by which a person achieves his or her self-fulfilment and secures the broadest right to dignity. the fight against undeclared work is first and foremost a battle of civilizations to improve social and individual living conditions. it also means fighting criminal phenomena such as illegal intermediation, tax and tax evasion, the 'foreign arms' market and all forms of labour exploitation. a platform to improve european cooperation in combating undeclared work must aim not only to prevent and discourage it but also to regularize the positions which result in a lack of social and occupational protection for workers. it would facilitate the improvement of knowledge and mutual understanding of the different national systems of labour inspection, knowledge of all forms and causes of undeclared work, the exchange of experience and good practice as well as up-to-date, reliable and comparable information which will also contribute to improving legislation in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above report, which will lead to the creation of a european platform to prevent and discourage undeclared work, which includes paid activities not declared to the relevant public authorities. i think it is essential to make it clear that the establishment of this platform will not prejudice the obligations and competences of the member states in the fight against undeclared work. this will be ensured in two ways: each state will have flexibility to decide whether or not to participate in each of the activities of the platform; the social partners participating in the platform will not have the same weight as the member states in terms of voting and agenda management.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the establishment of the european platform to find new responses at eu level to discourage crossborder undeclared work.
in writing. global geopolitics is going through a time of great fragility and the repercussions of the economic crisis are not sparing anyone, from china to america to the main european countries and markets. in this climate, in which the labour market sector is probably the most affected, the data tell us of a submerged labour economy in europe of over 18%, which is often associated with other worrying phenomena that make the situation of our workers even more worrying, such as social dumping, the complete absence of guarantees and rights, and unlikely working conditions. it is our duty and responsibility to oppose all this. that is why i am voting for and supporting the commission's proposal for a european platform to promote the regularisation of undeclared work and to promote the sharing of information and good practice between national administrations in order to prevent and discourage undeclared work and to protect the dignity and rights of workers.
in writing. the establishment of a european platform aims to strengthen cooperation between eu countries by bringing together all police, labour and social security authorities involved in the fight against undeclared work. the platform will provide the legal framework for cooperation through the development of effective enforcement-based measures. another aspect of primary importance is the promotion of production to counteract low levels of growth and deflation.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the report on the establishment of a european platform for enhanced cooperation to prevent and discourage undeclared work. the phenomenon of undeclared work still represents a brake on employment and growth in europe, by undermining the financing of social security, reducing tax revenues and causing social dumping. it is therefore a matter of priority to do our utmost to reduce this harmful phenomenon and to commit ourselves to a widespread and constant control to combat it.
in writing. ‒ preventing and combating undeclared work is a priority issue: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. that is why i supported the proposal to set up a european platform to prevent and discourage effectively undeclared work and all related cases, such as bogus self-employment and undeclared work in subcontracting. given the cross-border dimension of the challenge we are facing, it is therefore crucial to recognise the need to work towards closer cooperation between eu countries bringing together all police authorities, labour and social security inspectors, tax and migration authorities, and employers' and workers' representatives at european level. the move to a formal mechanism is an important but necessary step in building the legal framework for sharing information and good practice, as is the promotion of initiatives to raise awareness of the problem at european and national level.
in writing. ‒ underground work is a problem affecting european economies with negative repercussions on the production system and the sustainability of social security systems in the member states. employment of employees without prior notification of the establishment of the employment relationship by the employer fosters unfair competition between undertakings and does not promote a climate of free and equal competition. for this reason, european states must continue on the path of legalizing undeclared work, which today represents over 18% of european gdp. we therefore welcome the report, which aims to create a european platform to combat undeclared work. the platform demonstrates europe's commitment to citizens' rights by encouraging contractual arrangements that protect health, safety and respect for appropriate labour standards. the project provides for more effective cooperation between the bodies responsible for combating the black economy and the representatives of employers and workers at european level, filling a gap in cooperation and coordination, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules in all eu countries.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a european platform aims to strengthen cooperation between eu member states by bringing together all bodies involved in the fight against undeclared work, tax evasion and breaches of social security provisions. i believe that underground work should be prevented and discouraged and therefore i voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, today, underground work escapes observation and registration and is defined differently in national legislation. it is therefore difficult to obtain reliable estimates of the prevalence of the phenomenon in the member states. in the light of the latest survey, where only 4% of respondents admitted to having carried out underground work, i am in favour of the establishment of a european platform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that undeclared work, if not adequately tackled, is a serious obstacle to the union's ability to achieve its objectives of employment, growth and equal opportunities in the labour market. in addition, a common platform can facilitate the transition from informal to formal work, which is essential for the restoration of decent jobs. underground work in europe is a worrying reality and inherently difficult to measure. it is therefore important to address this phenomenon as a common challenge in order to strengthen labour inspections and encourage the sharing of good practice. in addition, it is a priority to redefine the concept of underground work at european level. many member states do not have a formal definition of underground work in their legislation, others have it in their labour code, and still others have it in their labour code, and in others the meaning of underground work has different connotations depending on the different agencies to which it refers. in order to create a european platform whose raison d'être is cooperation between states, it is therefore crucial to reformulate this concept and also to take care to integrate the challenges posed by vulnerable groups, especially women.
in writing. ‒ underground work is generally paid work which is itself lawful but is not declared to the relevant public authorities or, in the case of fictitious self-employment, is falsely declared. the establishment of a european platform for enhanced cooperation in the fight against labour law violations, tax evasion and violations of social security provisions is therefore undoubtedly the first step towards solving the many implications of undeclared work. i am in favour of the establishment of such a platform and hope that it will be associated with proactive incentive-based measures and policies to promote the regularisation of undeclared jobs, such as income tax relief, tax breaks and subsidy schemes. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been experiencing a serious economic crisis for several years: the lack of money, investment and foresight on the part of the major european players has led to thousands of people being unemployed and many more having to settle for working under the table in order to earn something. with the report we have adopted today, the european parliament has sent a clear message to all those who exploit the work and despair of others: we have started the establishment of a platform to help the various stakeholders to work together to eliminate the scourge of undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a european platform against undeclared work, designed to prevent, discourage and combat this phenomenon with serious repercussions on working conditions, fair competition, public budgets and social security systems. this new instrument aims to bring together all the police authorities, labour and social security inspectorates and tax authorities involved. i hope that it will improve knowledge and exchange of information and practices on combating undeclared work and promote its transformation into legal work by promoting the regularisation of undeclared work and integrating people excluded from the labour market.
in writing. ‒ underground work is a phenomenon that is threatening the european economy and exploiting a large part of the workforce. about one in ten european citizens admit to having bought goods or services obtained from undeclared work, while 4% admit to having personally received black money payments as consideration for work done. for governments, underground work threatens tax revenues by putting the sustainability of social protection systems to the test. the impact on workers is also profound. black-collar work deprives workers of social protection, puts their health and safety at risk and lowers working standards. the european platform aims to intensify cooperation between member states and thus to be able to combat undeclared work more effectively. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the proposal to set up a high-level european platform with the primary objective of combating undeclared work. regularising underground work means improving the situation of thousands of workers in europe who are without rights, precarious, victims of all kinds of abuse. it is also a question of avoiding jeopardizing social security systems by creating unfair competition between workers, a clear threat to our welfare system, and the cause of a decrease in the minimum protections to which every citizen is entitled. the fight against undeclared work must be a priority and it is good that the eu recognises a european dimension to the problem and intends to pursue an open dialogue with civil society, encouraging meetings between trade unions and employers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the data on undeclared work in europe are worrying, with an average of 18% at eu level. this has negative consequences in many sectors, from occupational safety (particularly in the construction sector, where there are many black workers) to the inability of these workers to access social security benefits. the platform will be a step forward towards better cooperation between member states and the social partners in the fight against undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the creation of a european platform to prevent and combat undeclared work and to encourage the regularisation of workers. i think it is important to strengthen cooperation at union level in order to tackle the multiple challenges generated by undeclared work globally. it is not superfluous to point out that the phenomenon is widespread in many sectors and affects millions of workers: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i would remind you that this work leads to serious market disturbances, with companies that comply with the rules having to face dangerous unfair competition. i would like to conclude by stressing the importance of creating a platform to facilitate the exchange of experience and good practice. i hope that a wide range of stakeholders will be involved in this process, including representatives of the member states and the multi-sectoral social partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2015 was a year of very high environmental awareness. 2015 was the year of cop21, with the world confronting the need for greater protection of the environment and nature. the debate must now be followed by a concrete commitment, because it seems that the strategy for the protection of biodiversity has unfortunately failed. i appreciate the report by my colleague, who is profoundly aware that biodiversity is a resource, a resource which - i would add - is also economic, but above all social wealth. i particularly stress the need to protect marine biodiversity and to integrate nature conservation objectives into all eu policies. there can be no blue growth without protecting the biodiversity of our seas. achieving these goals also means boosting growth through support for universities and the study of ecosystem conservation, without which the world will be poorer and our health more compromised.
in writing. ‒ the protection of biodiversity is a fundamental strategy of the european union, but even more so is our duty to the future generations who will take our place. the union's ecosystems are at risk and this requires a more effective integration of biodiversity into other sectoral policies, accompanied by a more targeted use of existing financial instruments. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the protection of biological diversity is a key factor in maintaining individual well-being. habitat destruction, changes in consumption patterns and the impact of human activities on the environment pose serious threats to both life and the planet's economy. the european union adopted a biodiversity strategy in 2011 which has so far failed to deliver the expected results. the failure to achieve the targets, with an estimated loss of €50 billion per year, led the commission to propose a revision. the demesmaeker report, which i supported with my vote, has effectively highlighted how full implementation and effective funding are the fundamental prerequisites for the success of the union's biodiversity strategy. the development of a trans-european network for green infrastructure, the adoption of sustainable solutions for agriculture and the commitment to reduce marine pollution are some of the first measures that must be put into practice together with a commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity also outside protected natural areas.
in writing. ‒ while the demesmaeker report proposes solutions that at first sight seem concrete in terms of biodiversity protection, i do not share the underlying approach that permeates it. calling for 'more europe' in this area too is a contradiction, as the eu's own policies are promoting the loss of biodiversity, as they are based on standardisation and 'free movement' on the largest scale, on a multinational scale rather than on the protection of local territories and biodiversity. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the large participation in the commission's public consultation on the adequacy of nature protection directives demonstrates the awareness of european citizens of the importance of biodiversity. the protection of biodiversity is also a matter of concern for the well-being of all mankind and represents an important socioeconomic value. its protection provides real opportunities for development and employment, while guiding us towards sustainable growth, in line with our objectives and international commitments, in the interests of present and future generations. in line with this, i support this report which, in addition to highlighting the fundamental role of biodiversity and the need for its wider integration into other sectoral policies. as shown by examples of best practices, where implemented, the full implementation of the habitats and birds directives has delivered important results, demonstrating that effective implementation of existing directives can lead to the achievement of the 2020 targets. we must therefore continue along the lines laid down by the existing directives and make sure that the instruments we have at our disposal today are actually deployed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the protection of biodiversity is one of the priorities of the union and that it is the task of the european institutions to work towards the achievement of the objectives set by the eu biodiversity strategy 2020. the economic and social costs of biodiversity loss are too high for the union and the member states to ignore.
in writing. - i abstained. some of these proposals appear, rather than being 'concrete', to be dictated by an ideological approach or to be in keeping with the ecological alarmism that is often and willingly echoed in politically correct parlour discussions. it is contradictory to call for 'more europe' in this area too, when the eu's own policies are favouring the loss of biodiversity, as they are based on standardisation and 'free movement' on the broadest scale, on a multinational scale. moreover, under austerity, even if the member states wanted to, they could not allocate sufficient financial resources to carry out the necessary measures.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, on the basis of the following considerations: biodiversity is a human resource under threat and in a precarious equilibrium, to the point that its compromise is estimated to be among the ten most serious global risks to ecosystems and to the resilience of the earth, a 'system' resource that cannot be eliminated to address the necessary challenges of environmental sustainability; the six-objective strategy is complex and far from being achieved. it is regrettable that only two objectives have visible positive aspects (for fisheries and invasive alien species) and that this step will not, unfortunately, produce satisfactory results by 2020, not even a small one, and in particular for two key sectors, agriculture and forestry. it follows that ultimately, greater political will and a multi-stakeholder approach are needed, with the development of a higher ecological awareness by regional and local actors, which collectively contribute to developing an ecological footprint that is double that of the sustainable one.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out parliament's position on the commission and council's stated intention to improve the implementation of the biodiversity directives and to integrate biodiversity more effectively into other sectoral policies. i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the need not to amend the directives on the protection of biodiversity but rather to improve their implementation. in fact, i believe that the legislative instruments currently in force, if well implemented, can lead to much more positive results than those achieved since 2011.
in writing. ‒ pollution, overexploitation of natural resources, climate change, land use change and deforestation are among the main factors driving biodiversity loss in europe, with adverse impacts on species survival. already in 2010, europe failed to meet the agreed targets. therefore, new and substantial efforts to restore ecosystems will be required by 2020. today, only 17% of the habitats and species and 11% of the main ecosystems protected by eu legislation in the eu enjoy a satisfactory conservation status. this means that the natura 2000 network and the habitats and birds directives, where implemented, have delivered the expected results but it is still too little compared to the rate at which we are seeing biodiversity loss. a change of pace and a greater commitment by the states, especially to apply existing legislation, are needed. but unless these efforts are accompanied by a more resource-efficient, climate-resilient and low-carbon economy, the eu risks failing to meet its 2020 target. i share the report's content and call on all public and private actors to play an active role in safeguarding our planet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy because i believe that the enormous intrinsic value of biodiversity must be protected for the benefit of future generations. biodiversity offers benefits for human health and makes a contribution of great social and economic value. i have, however, decided to depart from my group's position when voting on the amendments: i voted in favour of amendment no 81, part 2, in particular, to maintain the ban on the use of neonicotinoids. i voted in favour of amendment no 82 in order to apply the precautionary principle fully when authorising the use and release of gmos into the environment. finally, i voted in favour of amendment no 88 because it is against the use of fracking, which is harmful to natural resources.
in writing. ‒ we all agree that biodiversity is a value. however, being a value for all, it risks, like everything that is public, not to be a value for anyone: the farmer who has to grow one species and not another in a given area to protect biodiversity must have a convenience or, most likely, just on principle, could decide not to do so. it is a classic case of the public good that the public must pursue, including by putting in place appropriate financial instruments, which incentivise going in the direction that is convenient for all instead of the one that is convenient for only a few. i congratulate the rapporteur on having highlighted these points, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, as i think it is worthwhile to focus on this subject and to take a moment to note the progress made and the objectives still to be achieved. the protection of biodiversity is important for the maintenance of ecosystems, which are increasingly at risk, and the projects already implemented to ensure such protection have helped to create significant economic returns in designated areas. i would stress, however, that the ban on the use of neonicotinoid pesticides must be maintained, as their use is becoming more frequent, despite an increasing number of scientific studies revealing their possible negative impact on biodiversity, starting from the essential condition for the prosperity of natural habitats, such as through pollination.
in writing. ‒ the european commission published (10/2015) a report on 'the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020', which assesses the results achieved since 2011, the date of adoption of the strategy, in implementing the actions and achieving the targets set. overall, the report finds no significant progress towards the key objective of 'stopping biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the european union (eu) by 2020'. the council agreed last december to want better implementation of the sectoral directives (habitat and birds directives); more effective integration of biodiversity into other sectoral policies, in particular the common agricultural policy (cap), a more targeted use of existing financial instruments; a greater focus on international strategies; the urgency of raising awareness and involving all sectors of society and all levels of government; a greater use, including economic use, of ecosystem services. the rapporteur strongly stressed the need not to amend the habitat and other biodiversity protection directives, as these, when well implemented, give positive results. i consider it a good report, so i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity is an absolute value for our planet, but it is constantly at risk because of human activities and the low impact of the initiatives taken. the environmental value is certainly there, but also the economic value, if we calculate that the failure to achieve the objectives costs europe some 50 billion euros a year, while one in six jobs is dependent, in one way or another, on the environment. the implementation of the biodiversity strategy (drafted in 2011) is proving to be a failure: the european commission believes that no real progress has been made and that the system is deteriorating in an unstoppable way. in particular, while there are some successes in the fight against invasive alien species, the contribution of agriculture and forestry to the protection and restoration of biodiversity has been virtually nil to date. this must be remedied quickly; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency. in particular, synergies with the union's development policies, in particular in agriculture, need to be strengthened by removing the barriers that have prevented the cap and other initiatives from better meeting environmental needs.
in writing. ‒ according to the eurobarometer biodiversity survey, at least eight out of ten citizens in the eu consider the effects of biodiversity loss to be serious. the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy shows that there is still a long way to go to achieve the mid-term targets in this area. my vote in favour is intended above all to be an incentive for this process to be accelerated and for the commission and the competent authorities of the member states to cooperate, also through the exchange of best practices, in safeguarding a fundamental asset.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020', as it assesses the results achieved since 2011, when the strategy was adopted, in implementing the actions and achieving the targets set. i hope that all the objectives of the strategy will be achieved. however, i am well aware that the medium-term report is far from the 6 targets it aims to achieve by 2020, especially in relation to the key objective of 'stopping biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the eu by 2020'. this is because of the failure to implement the habitats directive and the birds directive, which are not being properly implemented by the member states. member states must understand the importance of protecting biodiversity and must protect it, not by revising but simply by implementing the rules that already exist to protect it.
in writing. ‒ i am refraining from approving the mid-term review because some eu policies are favouring the loss of biodiversity and member states would not be able to support such actions economically.
in writing. protecting nature and respecting our planet's ecosystem are fundamental to the health and well-being of the people who inhabit it. i therefore share the need to intervene with an interim monitoring of the eu biodiversity strategy 2020, to push for the achievement of results that are still slow to come but are necessary for our future, to be able to rely on new and greater resources that our ecosystem offers us and to address the challenges that most threaten us, from the economic crisis to climate change, by promoting agricultural policies that preserve biodiversity and strategies that support greater awareness, also through a stronger involvement of the main local and regional actors. protect the earth to invest in growth and the future.
in writing. biodiversity loss is one of the top ten global risks. biological resources are the foundation on which we build civilizations. nature's products are the basis of many industrial activities such as agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, papermaking, horticulture, construction and waste treatment. the loss of biodiversity has negative impacts on our food supplies, on recreational and tourism opportunities, on sources of timber, medicine and energy. it also interferes with essential ecological functions. unfortunately, the measures taken by the eu to halt this phenomenon by 2020 have not had the desired effect. to meet this challenge, a mid-term review of the eu strategy is certainly needed, accompanied by greater political will. i have therefore decided to support mr demesmaeker's report because protecting biodiversity is in the interest of the whole of europe because of the impact it may have, also, on future generations.
in writing. ‒ the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy highlights the need for greater commitment by member states to implementation to halt biodiversity loss and prevent the degradation of ecosystem services. the eu has taken initial steps to reduce the indirect causes of biodiversity loss, in particular wildlife trade and illegal fishing, and to mainstream biodiversity in its trade agreements. the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy aims to achieve the goal of halting biodiversity loss by 2020.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity is a fundamental element for our health, well-being and economic prosperity. unfortunately, the climate change of recent years, pollution and over-exploitation of land pose a dangerous threat to europe and the world. the european effort to halt biodiversity loss failed miserably in 2010, with the failure to transpose important directives. in 2011, the eu developed a new strategy, but little progress has been made so far. by adopting this report, we are calling for more political will to make biodiversity loss a real strategic priority, requiring a multi-stakeholder approach in which european, but also regional and local actors play a special role. we need to increase public support for investment, but we also believe that it is essential to use the resources available more efficiently and more effectively. we ask the commission to draw up specific criteria to ensure that projects produce adequate, positive and scientifically tangible effects. biodiversity and nature must continue to be considered central to a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe. this is essential for nature itself and for the health, well-being and prosperity of our children.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity is seriously threatened in europe and worldwide. species are going extinct at an extremely high rate, and this is due to human activities, habitat changes, pollution and climate change. the protection of biodiversity is in everyone's interest, especially for future generations, and that is why i supported mr demesmaeker's report.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, in 2010 the european commitment to halt biodiversity loss failed and the following year the eu developed a new strategy with the main objective of halting biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystem services by 2020. as we are still far from achieving these objectives, i am voting in favour of this mid-term review.
in writing. ‒ in europe, as in the rest of the world, the daily cost is the inexorable and constant degradation of biodiversity, mostly linked to human activities. despite more efficient use of raw materials, the european way of life remains among the most resource-intensive. the strategy adopted by the european union in 2011 aimed to identify actions to be taken to integrate biodiversity challenges into the different european policies such as the common agricultural policy or the common fisheries policy. the strategy aims to halt this degradation process by 2020 and yet, the report of the european environment agency of 3 march 2015 brings back a very worrying reality by suggesting that the european objective of halting global biodiversity loss is at risk of failing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that the strategy adopted by the union shows first of all a great deal of political awareness, but also that a greater commitment, particularly on the part of the member states, is necessary if the objectives are to be achieved within the deadlines set.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity, a key element for our health, well-being and economic prosperity, is under serious threat in europe and around the world. the loss of biodiversity is particularly damaging and entails losses for nature, humanity and the economy. the world economic forum has ranked biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse among the top ten global risks. this loss is linked to climate change and raw material scarcity issues. in 2011, the european union developed a new strategy with the main objective of halting the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services in the eu by 2020. the 2015 mid-term review found that progress was too slow to meet the headline target and without further substantial efforts, the eu will again fall short of the agreed target in 2020. i therefore believe that with more political will, better implementation and enforcement of existing legislation and new financial commitments, biodiversity loss can be stopped. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today concerns the mid-term review of the european biodiversity strategy, adopted by the eu in 2011 with the aim of halting biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation by 2020. biodiversity is a pillar of our economy and our well-being, and i therefore supported the resolution of parliament expressing concern at the lack of progress towards the objectives set and calling for better implementation of the existing law. i do not think that the nature protection and conservation directives need to be revised, but that they need to be applied more efficiently and that existing funds need to be used more productively.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the report evaluates the objectives achieved since 2011, unfortunately not positive. the results are not reassuring: we are continually losing biodiversity and degrading our ecosystems. the report does not imply any change to the habitats and birds directives, as they are directives which lead to positive results where they are well implemented. the report calls on the member states to enforce existing legislation more effectively in the face of negative results. two important points have been made in this report. the first is the requirement that member states do not authorise new hydraulic fracturing operations in the eu, based on the precautionary principle and preventive action in view of the risks and negative impacts on the climate, the environment and biodiversity. the second point calls on the commission to maintain the ban on the use of neonicotinoids on the basis of the continuing scientific evidence that these pesticides are harmful to essential activities such as pollination and natural plant health control.
in writing. ‒ the degradation and destruction of natural habitats due to land use change, land grabbing, climate change, unsustainable consumption patterns and the exploitation of marine resources are among the most important factors causing biodiversity loss in the european union and globally. certain elements must be identified that define the state of biodiversity in a given area or region and support rational and sustainable use of resources. it would be good to link international commitments on biodiversity to climate change strategies. we must make our economy more efficient and encourage a reduction in consumption in order to reduce our dependence on natural resources, particularly those from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy because it underlines the importance of a holistic approach to biodiversity protection in the fields of agriculture and the environment. i also share the view that it is essential to raise awareness among european citizens at local and regional level through awareness-raising initiatives.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has published a report on the 'mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020', which assesses the results achieved since 2011 in implementing actions and achieving the targets set. overall, the report finds no significant progress towards the key objective of 'stopping biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the european union by 2020'. the council agreed last december to want better implementation of the sectoral directives (habitat and birds directives) and in particular: more effective integration of biodiversity into other sectoral policies, in particular the common agricultural policy (cap), a more targeted use of existing financial instruments, a greater focus on international strategies, the urgency to raise awareness and involve more all sectors of society and all levels of government and finally a greater value, including economic value, of ecosystem services. this report strongly emphasises the need not to amend the habitat and other biodiversity protection directives and instead supports the idea of better implementation of existing legislation.
in writing. the european commission, after carefully assessing the results achieved since 2011 on biodiversity, has published a report reviewing the actions needed to achieve the objectives set by the adoption of the eu biodiversity strategy, which will be in force until 2020. according to the data in the report, there is no significant progress towards the key objective of halting biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation in the european union by 2020. the report urges that directives concerned with protecting biodiversity should not be amended, confirming that such rules, when properly implemented and enforced, can bring significant positive results. the parties agree that the implementation of the convention on biological diversity is a priority and that the convention should be applied in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. in the document, which i voted in favour of, parliament, in line with a recent council decision, called for better implementation of the sectoral directives (with the habitats and birds directives) and for more effective integration of the biodiversity theme with that of other sectoral policies, in particular the common agricultural policy (cap).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the neo-nazi raids in sweden and germany in recent days, the shameful calls by politicians to shoot refugees and even children, all this tells us that a virus is infecting europe, the virus of fear. i don't even share the carrot and stick theory about refugees. no stick and no carrot! there is only one word and one duty towards refugees: the reception! because they're not people who want to come and turn our lives upside down. they're people fleeing the same danger that's attacking us, they're people fleeing war. too many taboos have been broken in these months: the schengen agreement, the duty to provide humanitarian aid, respect for human life. and in this house, therefore, we can no longer discuss only legislative dossiers, but we must discuss values again, because we are here because we belong first and foremost to a community of values. if those values are no longer there, there is no longer this community and there is no point in keeping the european institutions alive, because those institutions have meaning if they are based on the values of the european union. that's why i'm giving this talk. minister koenders and commissioner avramopoulos also mentioned the story of the 10 000 children. but is it possible that no one talks about this, no one thinks about this? we think of danger, but what? what are refugees, refugees, a danger? - what about? we must overcome this, this accursed fear that is keeping the hands of those who have to decide tied, because the problems are on the table, they have been put on the table by the european commission. we agree, mr weber, on the strengthening of controls at the external borders. we agree on identification, we agree on relocation. what's stopping this system from working? i will tell you what is stopping him, it is fear that is stopping him, the fear that has been magnified, that has been fomented, that has been fed in these months! this is our greatest danger, which is liquefying the european union as a community of values. that's why i'm stopping here. it is a matter of value theory, because this is a fundamental issue, otherwise it will never work, mr weber. if we don't come back here, if we don't tell our heads of government, our heads of state, don't be afraid, you won't lose votes, you won't lose support if you prove that the system works and the system can work. and beware, this is not a phenomenon that you can govern in a few months. there are already flows affecting eastern europe, affecting finland and other eastern countries. there will be more flows in the spring. so, either we get this system up and running or we fail. that is why my appeal is not so much to this or that dossier. all of this is the consequence of a sharing that either is or is not. the shared values for which we are europeans and members of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european governance of migration flows is a complete failure. faced with a challenge vital to its survival, the european union is showing its true face. the commission's inadequate response is one of anti-solidarity and national selfishness. we continue to deal with the migration crisis blindly, starting from the effects and never looking at the causes. we never talk about the causes. what are the causes? the big european countries, on the one hand, contribute to creating the problems, by selling arms, supporting warring factions, exploiting the resources of the countries of origin of the flows, and then, on the other hand, they try to block the migration flows by protecting themselves and erecting barriers of all kinds to block the migration flows. then it is good, as pittella said, to start from values. so why not turn to the pd, which is the government in italy, and propose to stop, to put a stop to the sale of arms to saudi arabia, which then uses them in the warring factions in syria, which causes the migration flows, and then proposes to solve the problem that it itself causes, together with the other countries that also sell arms, and therefore proposes unlikely solutions. it is a perverse game in which incapacity and lack of will are combined. the protection of the economic interests of multinational companies, unfortunately, takes precedence over the protection of life and fundamental rights. then we have to give a semblance of humanity, we have to show the citizens how much the governments care about the fate of their citizens. so what do we do? we have to get through schengen to protect public safety. but then we have to take precautions, because that would damage the single market, the single currency, and then we would be faced with a mini-schengen fortress between the countries of northern europe. or what do we do? we are giving turkey 3 billion, although we are aware of the violations of fundamental rights that are taking place on turkish territory, in such a way that we are shifting responsibility beyond european borders. the proposals of the five star movement are still the same as we have presented them from the beginning: the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat terrorism, such as the abolition of arms sales, the review of energy and economic policies, the amendment of the dublin regulation and the mandatory relocation of migrants between all 28 member states of the european union. let's start with the causes and then look at the effects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have to ask ourselves whether, after two years, because this problem has been affecting europe for two years now, there is really the political will on the part of the commission, on the part of the european union in all its forms, to tackle the problem effectively. because, from what i can gather from today's debate, it seems to me that there are two views. there is a bit of a vision of those who have the ideology and therefore say that all refugees are good people, they all have needs, let's welcome them all, maybe even give them our homes. the other day in my city, 22 refugees were put up in a hotel and will also be offered training and jobs, something that many italians, my fellow citizens, do not have. you have to be careful in doing these things, because then maybe someone gets angry, but you have the solution by saying that they are populists. apparently, that's all it takes to solve everything. on the other hand, however, what surprises me is that there is perhaps no interest. when i see 10,000 children disappear, when i see that some of these people are being recruited by the mafia, when i see that some people, as happened last week in italy, are being arrested for drug dealing and are seeking asylum, when i see the events in cologne, i think that there is something dark about this european union. that someone might not have the interest in getting all these people in? because it sounds like someone's trying to create chaos. creating chaos, i don't know why, but obviously there are important interests that someone doesn't want to eradicate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the immigration emergency has shown the true face of this europe, which is not based on principles and ideals of solidarity but on selfishness and meanness. the selfishness of the member states, where each one thinks of its own borders and leaves the problems to the others, and the meanness of the union, which would like to get rid of the matter by relying, at a very high price, on the help and blackmail of erdogan. europe is always at the forefront of the defence of rights in every part of the world, but it is silent about turkey and all its internal problems in a shameful and complicit silence. the money should go to the refugees, according to brussels' intentions. i would like to know what basis this security is based on, since i do not think it will be easy to verify how the money will actually be used. in recent months many people have left for europe in desperation, with the complicity of the turkish authorities. so i wonder who is to guarantee that this cannot go on. i shall be in turkey next week to get more information and to try to shed light on this situation which is still far from being clear.
i'm asking for a blue card. after hearing my colleague, i have a question for her, who has so many things to say: but how many illegal immigrants or refugees do you have in your house, since you're so smart and good?
i'm asking for a blue card. president moraes is right. it is a fact that three years ago in italy we unanimously approved in parliament the granting of legal status to minors without including them in the asylum procedure. only by stopping them from becoming numbers can they be saved from the clutches of crime. i'd like to know what the president thinks about this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the fact that some of our colleagues wore a t-shirt with the words 'anti-fascist action' is not a problem for this parliament, nor is it the spread of new fascisms throughout europe, nor is it what moni ovadia has authoritatively called the new holocaust that is consuming the mediterranean sea. i believe that today we need to hear the truth about these three billion given to turkey, or to the erdogan government, or to a government which continues to commit massacres on a daily basis at the expense of the lives of the kurdish people. i believe that we have given these three billion to outsource the borders, to block the refugees who are fleeing and to prevent them from reaching europe. we have given three billion to erdogan's turkey, a government which has a highly ambiguous relationship with daesh, precisely to outsource the problem of reception. we propose that these three billion be given to unhcr, that they be given to those ngos who are working day in day out to build a humanitarian corridor, which is the only civilized thing that this europe could do.
reply to a question by georgios epitideios. i think that the holocaust of thousands of women and men cannot continue any longer. i believe that we must assume our full political responsibility as the european union and as member states. i believe that what is happening to greece, which is being forced to file migrants, is just another example of the uncivilized way in which europe is rapidly sliding.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 one million migrants swept across europe, and the invasion continues and will continue. border states like italy and greece have found themselves facing an unprecedented social emergency, and our citizens have had to deal with the tragic social consequences of mass immigration, with the uncontrollable increase in violence, crime in our cities, with the islamic terrorist madness. the external borders of the union are a maze. the situation is untenable and can only get worse. without proper controls on those arriving by sea or by land, without a serious common immigration policy and without compulsory returns for the thousands of illegal immigrants who live off the backs of our people, the european union will not survive the social pressures of this immigration emergency. the european union has been sound asleep these past years, dreaming of a united and strong europe. it is time to wake up because the dream of a united european union has turned into a nightmare for our people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, alongside the debate we are having in these hours and these weeks and months in parliament, a high-level debate which has to do with the values of europe, there is a parallel debate - and it is not a debate - which is being conducted by president weber alone against the italian government. we need policy, not the kind of questions and reasoning that president weber always produces. i wonder, for example, why not a single word has been said today about his party colleague, hungarian president orbán, who is building barbed wire in our europe. this, for example, would have been a discussion on the subject. it's a very complicated issue. we need to talk about politics. we need to go back to the values of europe, to think about schengen and how schengen is being attacked, how refugees are being welcomed on our continent, how we are helping italy and greece and how we are helping the refugee camps in turkey. and instead we're thinking about this. perhaps, and this is a question i ask myself and leave to the house, the real attack weber is making is not on president renzi, but perhaps it is an attack on the commission and president juncker.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is facing enormous migratory pressure at its external borders, which is putting the strength of several treaties, including schengen, to the test. despite the difficult situation, we must be able to strike a fair balance between the protection needs of asylum seekers, thus respecting our international obligations, and the impossibility of taking in economic migrants. according to the latest figures, which are unfortunately not very precise, between 500 and 5 000 migrants cross the turkish-greek border every day. we are grateful to the european commission for the legislative proposals it has put forward in recent months, but we must work to find a solution in the very short term. i am convinced that the european union already has a useful legislative acquis and that these rules must be applied to the fullest, just as i am convinced that schengen must be defended, but we must not go beyond a predetermined limit. the creation of hotspots and the quota mechanism, which as it stands is clearly lacking, are certainly two of the priorities which the european union must put in place to deal with this phenomenon. the european union must also reach a final agreement on the financing of €3 billion to turkey to control the flow of refugees in the period 2016-2017. turkey can be a geographically important partner in achieving the objective of control of flows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with what the commission and the council have said. however, we are still far from having found common answers and i fear that we shall not find them, at least not until these joint discussions are followed by ambitious and shared political decisions and measures to implement the decisions taken by the council and parliament. it is scandalous that only 400 resettlement applications have been accepted by member states to date. the migration flows are unstoppable unless emergency measures and long-term policies are put in place together, all within a legal framework of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is true, commissioner, that saving lives and the principle of non-refoulement are not negotiable values. without a vision of europe's future, we will be victims of unprecedented political failure, and in the hands of extremist, xenophobic and populist forces, and deprived of the main achievement of the european union, namely the free movement of people, the end of which would be the decline of the european integration project.
in writing. only two things emerge from this debate: the role of the 'crossroads' that europe, and in particular some border states, such as italy and greece, is playing in the issue of immigration by welcoming everyone indiscriminately and that of its citizens-financiers who, unbeknownst to them, will pay 3 billion euros to turkey to keep the many refugees from syria in that country. too bad they're going to grant visa liberalization... so we're still going to be invaded. and in this house, thanks to the usual hypocrisy, that is not said! there 's only so much to do . the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the schengen agreement is implemented without further delay, that there are genuine checks at the eu's external borders, and that illegal immigrants are returned to their countries of origin. only then, perhaps, will we be able to stabilise what is now a totally out of control situation, despite the good intentions we have heard today. it's time for europe to wake up...and maybe it's already too late
in writing. the suspension of schengen has been hovering over our europe for some time now, threatening the four fundamental freedoms and the principles of democracy. the closure of schengen would have devastating consequences for the european union, for the individual member states and for the single market. at times like these, the voices of those who are railing against the european project, those who are erecting walls of rejection, those who see refugees and asylum seekers as enemies to be fought, to be found and to be punished, seem to prevail. the answer lies in facing these challenges (the refugee emergency, the security of citizens) with the conscious expectation that our level of civilization imposes on us the logic of welcome. is it not feasible to go back to a national dimension, now little more than provincial? the member states have the political courage to organise genuine coordinated controls at the external borders. schengen cannot die! europe would die if schengen were suspended!
in writing. some in europe are under the illusion that building walls will stop the flow of migrants. but the phenomenon of immigration cannot be stopped, it is an epochal phenomenon that must be governed and managed. and if the borders are closed and schengen is called into question, we are on a very dangerous ridge: schengen is a pillar of europe, and if schengen collapses, europe collapses. i agree with the commission's proposals, but i would stress that we must first change dublin and then evaluate schengen. to do otherwise would be unjust as well as wrong. first we must correct the distorted mechanisms for the reception of migrants, and only then can we assess schengen. it is not by giving ultimatums or setting deadlines that a european migration policy is built. the position of the countries which want to close schengen is very serious. it means turning our backs on the thousands of desperate people who are arriving, but it also means, and above all, turning our backs on the other member states of the european union which are at the forefront of the crisis. the countries that founded this union and built it. it's too easy to close the doors when the going gets tough. without schengen we cannot even call it a union.
in writing. the schengen treaty must be defended for what it is and what it represents: the european union is a common space of freedom and security, an area of fundamental values. the commission's proposal to establish a european coast guard to control the external borders is therefore a welcome expression of the shared responsibility which underlies it. it is obviously important that all guarantees be given to ensure that the fundamental rights which europe stands for are respected. recent data, provided by, inter alia, the eu agency for fundamental rights, indicate that numerous barriers to access to legal aid and insufficient information for asylum seekers in hotspots still persist. our priorities as members of parliament and as european citizens are the establishment of active life-saving rescue services, the need to open safe and legal access routes, the facilitation of family reunification and adequate training of border staff to better identify people in need of protection. respect for fundamental rights must be an integral and indispensable part of our security policies.
in writing. i have been in lampedusa for the past few days. it is enough to go there to understand the absurdity of the statements of the french minister of defence, who i hope will want to go there and look into the eyes of the people who arrive. that there are no terrorists, but there is so much desperation. all we have to do is go there and come to a simple conclusion: there can't be a hot spot in lampedusa. the island is not a suitable location, nor is the facility now used as a hot spot, which was only meant to be a pilot project and not to remain so in the long term. lampedusa has always been a champion in first aid and reception, but within 48 hours people should be relocated elsewhere, so that they can then be relocated to other eu countries. instead, they're stuck there for weeks, with no shoes on their feet or a canteen to eat in. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the relocations are unacceptably and unjustifiably late. little wonder that people are afraid to register unless they are first given a certain perspective on their future. governments, take your responsibility.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are once again faced with falsehood and hypocrisy. we are talking about big posters, slogans and goals, which are purely ideological in nature but which are light years away from the real reality that we women live in and from all the problems that we are forced to face on a daily basis. we want equality of rights which is always only a formality and which is not reflected in any substantive policy. we write resolutions that chant the equality of the sexes and equal opportunities. these are many, many, many fine words, but have what we have done and written so far been of any use? are european women living better or worse each year? unfortunately, we must note that the serious phenomena of discrimination and inequality, which we so strongly condemn, continue to occur, despite all the measures taken. this is what the news reports, the data collected and the economic analyses carried out tell us. we have also seen in recent months the directive on maternity leave being shelved, we have seen the deadlock on the directive on women on boards of directors, while women in europe are increasingly lonely, increasingly unemployed, increasingly poor and increasingly violated. it's time to say enough! we want the commission to take targeted and concrete action now!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality for seven years and i have been a strong supporter of the strategies put forward by the european commission on equality, women's rights and gender equality for seven years. this year the commission has presented us with a working document setting out its priorities. the left in this parliament has very strongly criticised the commission's method and says that this document lacks legal force. i do not agree with this approach for two clear and distinct reasons: the first is that i am a pragmatic woman who looks at promised results and concrete solutions to real problems. secondly, it makes little sense to have another strategy promising new legislation on gender equality when there are already directives that have not yet been implemented in the member states. the working document, as outlined by commissioner jourová, contains many positive references such as the will to strengthen creativity and innovation, to encourage female entrepreneurship at all levels of education and training. there is a roadmap on work-life balance, which shows a strong economic motivation to support women's active participation in the labour market. in short, instead of standing here and arguing about the level of the document, let us roll up our sleeves and work to ensure that women play a leading role in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, gender equality will be difficult to achieve without a strategy to eliminate, or at least to mitigate, the structural nature of the inequalities still present in our society. public policy must translate into effective equality of access and control over available resources and means. the principle of substantive equality, which is enshrined in every constitutional charter and recognised by the european union as a fundamental right, must be given effect. the commission's two-pronged approach to the issue is well known, with the integration of a gender perspective in all policies, accompanied by specific measures to remedy inequalities. i have already spoken here about the urgent moral obligation to work towards a radical change in mentality. the delay, the constriction of individual rights, leads to a reduction in europe's economic potential, where growth in innovation, research and training is not accompanied by sufficient active participation by women. i therefore agree that it is necessary and urgent for the commission to present a new strategy for gender equality.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the court's judgment has recognised that the commission is behind in defining the scientific criteria for the detection of endocrine disruptors. the delay was justified by the need to carry out a cost-benefit assessment, an exercise which is questionable given that the scientific evaluation criteria cannot be adapted to commercial needs. a recent paper published in the journal of clinical endocrinology & metabolism in march 2015 estimated an annual healthcare cost in the european union due to exposure to endocrine disruptors of between eur 165 and eur 256 million. these figures represent only 5% of the substances recognised. what makes the commission's delay all the more indefensible is the social cost of pollution by endocrine disruptors, paid for every year by, among others, some 60 000 infants who are born with significant cognitive delays due to exposure to these compounds in utero, children whose future we have stolen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by refraining from adopting delegated acts to define scientific criteria for the identification of substances with endocrine disrupting properties, the european commission has failed to fulfil its obligations under the regulation on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products. after numerous appeals by the european parliament, the court of justice of the european union, following sweden's appeal, also found that the european commission had infringed union law. with this delay, which has been going on since september 2013, the european executive is showing that it is not able to respond to the real needs of european citizens and that it is not able to protect their health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. following the court's ruling, we expect the rapid adoption of measures leading to the definition of scientific criteria for the identification of substances with endocrine disrupting properties, which is absolutely necessary to ensure the health of european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his willingness to discuss a subject which is fundamental to the health of citizens. the commission intends to carry out an impact assessment to define the criteria which will in turn be used to identify endocrine disruptors. but the biocidal products regulation set the deadline for definitions at december 2013. the study was not required by any provision and in any case this did not exempt you from meeting the deadlines. the commission, which is supposed to defend the community treaties, has gone ahead with its work, although several members have written to juncker reminding him of the obligations laid down in the treaties. i therefore ask you to ensure that the operational definition of endocrine disruptors is ready as soon as possible. we can't wait until june for the criteria and december 2016 for the ranking. i also ask you to commit yourself to maximum transparency and to dialogue with the scientific community and parliament. the protection of citizens and the environment and the application of the precautionary principle are priorities, above any commercial or economic interest. the commission has a huge responsibility towards citizens suffering from infertility, malformations and endometriosis, a responsibility from which it cannot escape.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a phase 1 study assesses the safety, tolerability and pharmacological profile of new molecules, and normally does not involve many people. however, it must be borne in mind that each year thousands of volunteers, often young students, who cannot afford to go to university, regularly take part in clinical trials, often unknowingly risking their lives. the centre which carried out the research - and i agree fully with what mrs rivasi said - defends itself by claiming that it has fully applied international regulations and has faithfully followed all procedures. but we particularly want to know what has been done before we get to human trials. what kind of animal testing was done? what other tests were conducted before putting lives at risk? we want to know if this could have been prevented, because one clinical death and five serious admissions out of 90 patients are huge numbers, and it's clear that, as often happens when there are adverse health events, too many people are keeping quiet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the safety and well-being of patients must be safeguarded with all possible care during clinical trials. the recent tragedy in france shows that this is not always the case: the five hospitalizations and one death of volunteers following the ingestion of an experimental molecule foreseen by the programme for the development of a new drug are a very serious matter. fortunately, what has happened in france is a rare occurrence, but it is clear that much more can be done in the field of safety in research. regulation (eu) no 536/2014 on clinical trials will not enter into force in full until 2018. in the meantime, we cannot allow any more tragedies to happen. the regulation requires that thorough studies be carried out to collect as much information as possible before a medicinal product is administered to humans and obliges member states to share all available information, including by sharing the european clinical trial database and making the results of phase 1 trials publicly available. i would expect the commission to provide clarification on the progress of the implementation of the regulation and any measures to speed up its entry into force.
i would like to reiterate our strong concerns today. unfortunately, europe is in a bad way today. the neo-nazi raids in sweden and germany in recent days, the shameful calls by politicians to shoot refugees, even children: all of this tells us that a virus has infected europe, the fear virus. jean-claude juncker was talking about psychodrama. no country, no political party is immune to this virus. too many taboos have been broken in these months: the schengen agreement, the duty to provide humanitarian aid, the respect for human life. so today this house no longer has the duty to discuss only technical solutions to the migrant crisis. the solutions are there, and the european commission has put them on the table correctly. we already have measures to strengthen checks at the external borders, to identify hotspots, to redistribute them throughout the european countries. but this system doesn't work, and it doesn't work because it's blocked by selfishness, by fear, by electoral calculations. so the problem is political and cultural. selfishness, fear and nationalistic calculations would never have led to the building of the european union. so if we want to give effective answers, we have to change the wind and start again from values. it is the blackmail of the populists that prevents too many governments from taking responsibility. instead of talking about issues that frankly have little to do with this debate - the reference to spain and portugal frankly seems to me to be a pretext, since in spain and portugal the political leadership is always marching in the direction of strengthening european integration, there is no doubt about that - let us instead concentrate on the real dangers, let us not deviate, let us not miss the target, otherwise we will divide ourselves and play into the hands of others. we have a duty to tell our citizens clearly that it is our moral duty to welcome those who are fleeing the barbarity of isis and that we will do everything possible to ensure that those who come here can integrate, speak our language and find a job, because this is the only answer that works. and we must make it clear that schengen is the solution to this crisis and not the problem. so let the european commission go ahead with the immigration package and also with the dublin review. as regards the united kingdom, tusk's letter can provide useful clarifications on the role of the united kingdom in the union. we may ask for some further clarification during the negotiations, particularly on the subject of workers' rights, which is of great concern to us, but it must be clear that our commitment as socialists and as democrats in the european parliament is that the united kingdom should remain in the european union. it is essential for the european union and, as jean-claude juncker said, it is essential for the united kingdom. the united kingdom outside the european union is weaker. it is in the interests of british citizens, especially the weaker citizens of the united kingdom, to remain in the european union. we will have to speak the language of clarity about the advantages and benefits that british citizens have from their stay in the european union. only if we rediscover our values, the values that brought us here as representatives of the largest democratic body in the european union, can we solve our crisis. that's my appeal. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. to make generalizations, accusations and reflections that each of us is very good at. the debate on unemployment and youth unemployment deserves and requires a great deal of seriousness. there are certainly some things that need to be corrected in european economic policy: less austerity and less rigidity and more support for recovery, employment and job creation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united kingdom's participation in the european union is in the strategic interest of the british people and of all european citizens, and so it is good news that a draft agreement is on the table which, on the one hand, stresses the need for further integration to complete economic and monetary union and, on the other, recognises the rights of those who have chosen not to adopt the euro. the european legal system allows not only different speeds but also different levels of integration, and it is good that this is recognised in what appears to be a good agreement. of course, the draft can be improved and made more legally sound and consistent with this system, firstly by clarifying the difference between those who have a temporary derogation and those who have an opt-out from the euro, and the european parliament intends to contribute in a constructive and responsible way to the negotiations in the coming days. the european council is also called upon to adopt the recommendation on the euro area and it is good that this happens in recognition of the importance of the rules of the stability pact including...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, in recent months the council has drawn up a well-intentioned strategy which, at first sight, seems to be of real use in containing the emergency of migratory flows of the enormous size with which they are present at our frontiers today. however, in our view, the implementation of this strategy is still far from being at a level that can be considered sufficient. it is not possible to try to implement an agreed resettlement programme without genuine cooperation with african countries. but this can only be achieved if the european union is able to adopt a strategy to combat this chronic emergency by freeing itself from the slavery of the interests of individual european states. individual european states are doing business with arms trafficking, individual european states are doing business with resource exploitation and individual european states are closing their national borders. what is happening with the management of migration flows in europe is emblematic of the failure of this project of europe itself. the countries of northern europe are dumping an international problem on the mediterranean countries and are creating a security fortress by suspending schengen and thinking of an agreement which, as usual, will make them safe from the rest of the world, and they don't care if the problems are for the mediterranean countries where the landings take place! so do not come and tell us that we are anti-europeanists and you are europeans. the cause of the failure of this europe is precisely in those countries which only look after their own national interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as commissioner juncker is here, i wanted to ask him a question immediately. a while ago they said that oil at 130 dollars a barrel was a disaster for the economy and the people lost a lot of money. now oil is under $30 a barrel and they say the stock market is collapsing, that it's a total disaster, that the price of oil is too low! are you fucking kidding me? what is this story that once you're comfortable with oil being too high and then too low and the people always pay? but is this a europe of cowards? what kind of country is this? what continent is this? but do we want to defend the people or not? it's about britain, all right. they choose whether to stay in europe or not. what's the matter? shouldn't the people decide? so all the countries, even italy, come to her and say: we're getting out of europe. what's she doing, giving us a lot of money? everybody would do that! what kind of reasoning is that? then weber comes along, the guy with the thing in his head that a lot of boys like, comes along and says, there's nothing but selfishness here. but if it is germany that tells us when we have to go to the toilet, when we have to make love, when we have to do everything! wake up you are zombies!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit, whether we like it or not, that the consensus of the european institutions has been somewhat declining lately and, unfortunately, in some cases, collapsing. i've seen polls that put it below 30%. i am convinced that, beyond the bureaucracy and the regulatory emergency of which you spoke - and i therefore welcome the simplification which the commission is implementing - the dissatisfaction of the citizens today is certainly weighed down by the political weakness of europe, which has also emerged in our debate today. but that takes courage, let me tell you. first of all, the courage to break away from the europeanist rhetoric on the one hand and the easy anti-europeanism on the other, of which we had a perfect example a moment ago. we need to speak clearly, call things by their right names. we can no longer afford to hide the different positions and divisions even within ourselves by using linguistic tricks, and even less can we afford the balancing acts of those who, and there are many of them, say one thing in brussels and then go home and say perhaps the exact opposite. we are facing enormous challenges, it is useless to remind us of them. but do we really think that the solution is to return to the small homelands? what are the instruments and policies available to individual states to meet and give concrete answers to these gigantic and epochal challenges? we must instead seize the opportunity for the negotiation between the european union and the united kingdom to become a wider debate on the role of the european union. let us not miss this opportunity and then we shall have a better europe for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a subject which links the two items to the agenda of the next council and it is once again the subject of immigration, both from the external point of view, this human tide of refugees, and from the internal point of view, the british demands to reduce the number and the concessions and benefits to immigrants, also intra-european, since european citizens can also take on the appearance of foreigners of these days. all this is a sign of europe's closure, its impotence in the face of the new times, i would say its loss, and if europe loses itself, its values and its vision, it is the beginning of a decline. president juncker, you said that it is always useful to listen to you because you touch on real problems and you say things sincerely. you do not want to be on the side of those who, day after day, are destroying europe and making it go backwards. i 'll tell you this . we too, my group and my country, are on the side of those who want to have a vision and hope and act in that direction.
president of the commission. i am always trying to be faithful and good to the whole debate. i am not sure that all members of parliament do this, but i am trying to do it. i notice that everyone complains that europe is becoming more and more national, that governments are concerned with their own problems rather than with the problems of europe. the european parliament has always been the voice of the people, and it has always been the voice of the people. all those who say that are right. but it would be more credible if the members of parliament did the same. i find that almost all the debates here are about domestic politics. those who are the opposition at home use the european parliament to patch up their governments, and those who are the governing party in their countries and represent them here deal with the proposals of the opposition in their national states. this is not the european parliament that i would have liked to see playing its role in europe! i shall not answer these questions either, because these are not questions which you are asking the council or the commission, they are skirmishes between groups, primitive party politics! i do not think that this should be continued as it has been dragged into the house. (applause from the centre) for the rest, and as i must concern myself with the only grand principes and not with the joutes oratoires of the uns et des autres, i shall insist on two or three elements. some of our colleagues have said that the commission should not deal with the national budget. this is not true! there is a treaty, there is a growth and stability pact, there are country-by-country recommendations, there is debate within the eurogroup and the council, and the commission must play its full role. it is true for the budgets which the commission is examining and, in general, for all the budgets to follow. the commission is playing its part, without any doubt, in a policy of strict and stupid austerity. the commission has also introduced some elements of flexibility for the interpretation of the stability and growth pact. these elements are more than sufficient to enable the various member states, even those facing the most difficult problems, to propose a budget which meets all the rules and requirements. i will say nothing more about brexit, because everything has been said. i would like to make only one remark: apart from the representatives of ukip and other political parties - which are rather at the extreme ends of this house - all the members, all the parliamentary groups, have not ceased to advocate the united kingdom's remaining in the european union. if we really want to maintain this, we must not forget that president tusk, the president of the commission and a few others have been negotiating with the british prime minister. the idea that it would be enough to say that the united kingdom must remain a member of the european union and at the same time refuse to dialogue with the representatives of the british government is a stupid idea. we will have to discuss and talk with the representatives of the united kingdom if we want the united kingdom to remain in the union. for the rest, for the sake of clarity, i would like to add that the fact that the united kingdom is organising a referendum debate, which will be important and of a size, should not lead us to cease all the other activities of the european union. during the greek crisis, we were already very often invited not to do this or that, not to propose this or that initiative. the united kingdom will have a democratic debate which does it honour, but the commission will continue its work, which is why, in the field of social policy, we will be developing a number of initiatives over the coming weeks and months. we are proposing a mobility package, and we are not saying that we must not do the right thing, because our british friends are in the process of discussing it among themselves. we will propose a socle, a pillar of social rights, launch a broad consultation in march and we will propose amendments to the directive on the posting of workers. it is an absolute necessity and we must do it.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i would like to thank the members for this debate and for the many questions that were raised. it is true that the next european council will be crucial for very important aspects of the definition of our union. it will deal with the two elements that determine our collective will to confront common challenges. one is obviously the debate on the united kingdom, and i will come back to that in a second. it is true, as mr weber said, that it requires a certain amount of courage and leadership to deal with these two issues without any cost to discussing the many other challenges in the european union. the position of the united kingdom in the european union, as well as the improved management of the refugee crisis – we talked about that for many hours yesterday – is obviously crucial for the decisions that we will have to make in february. first of all, i think it is important to say that i am encouraged by the level of support that i hear about the type of package that has been proposed by president tusk. of course, the devil is in the detail and everything has to be weighed up, but nevertheless i feel a large majority of parliament here feels that it is in our interest to keep the united kingdom in the european union – not at the highest price. but in a reasonable constructive debate, these are important views. you are partners in this; you will be consulted; you have your ‘sherpas’, and you will be part of the council meetings. of course, it might involve changes to secondary legislation. therefore, your role is also essential and your concerns need to be addressed. this package has to be fair not only to the united kingdom, but also to all citizens in europe. it is vitally important to underline that in all aspects, including the most complex part, which deals with social benefits. we have to talk about a deeper and a fairer internal market and we will have to see what the conclusions are in the council discussions in february. many elements in the package benefit us all – such as more competitiveness and a deeper internal market – but, as i said, fairness is also an important point in this. i would also like to say that it gratifies me to hear mr kamall speak. he qualifies this package as at least being a good starting point, and that gives me hope that the negotiations will be constructive. on the issue of ever-closer union, which was mentioned by mr verhofstadt, it would not be a good idea for there to be an opt-out for the united kingdom. i would like to remind you that, in article 1 of the treaty, it states very clearly ‘an ever closer union between the peoples of the european union’. that is what is written in the treaty. for some it might mean a federal europe and for others there might be another connotation, but what we do in the draft european council decision is to clarify that, in itself, it does not offer a legal basis to transfer competences to the european union. that is a statement of fact, nothing more and nothing less. at the same time, the draft european council decision states that the treaties allow for a deeper degree of integration. i think that is your point. so the treaties do not represent an obstacle to your vision of europe, but neither do they oblige us to transfer competences. therefore i do not think that it would be wise to look at an opt—out. on the refugee crisis, i will not take up your time. we discussed it at length yesterday. regarding article 78(3), i would say that this is a possibility, but do not forget that at the moment we have a borders package which is being discussed every month in detail to make sure that we come to the quickest agreement on this. the eu interior ministers discussed these issues at their informal gathering held in amsterdam on 25—26 january 2016, and this will continue to be done consecutively. so we do not need the article to do it more quickly. what you need is the reality on the ground so that we have the right people from the european asylum support office (easo) and frontex in the hotspots. in conclusion, let me stress the importance of schengen. the continuing flow of migrants over the past months has seen several countries temporarily re-impose border controls. i would like to say here that the presidency is committed to securing the preservation of schengen – a system which is at the heart of the european project and one of the greatest achievements of european integration. we will do all we can to find a solution to the current problems on the basis of the expected commission proposal and in cooperation with the commission, parliament and the member states concerned.
in writing. the european council on 18 and 19 february will have to deal with the delicate issue of the proposed agreement between the european union and the uk government, in preparation for the referendum to be held in june. at this moment of crisis in the union, when national interests seem to prevail over the will to find common and cohesive solutions, the european institutions will have to do everything possible to prevent the united kingdom from leaving, an assumption which would undermine the very foundations of the union itself. at the same time, the european union cannot accept the four conditions demanded by the cameron government. in fact, while i believe that it is necessary to discuss the reform of the european institutions, as proposed by the british government, i am also convinced that this must be done in a shared and coordinated way at european level, and not on the basis of the request of a single member state, however 'special' it may be. that is why the agreement proposal put forward by mr tusk today risks taking us in a direction which is dangerous for the future of european integration. the first response to the british government is that of a minimalist europe, blocked by veils and devoid of any federalist perspective, the exact opposite of the strong and ambitious europe we need today.
president of the federal republic of nigeria.– mr president, i wish to express my utmost appreciation to the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, for inviting me to address the plenary session of this legislative arm of the european union. i am honoured and humbled at having been selected to make an address on this occasion. let me also bring to the european leaders, parliamentarians and the good people of europe, a goodwill message from my fellow countrymen and women. the nigerian people acknowledge with deep appreciation the material and financial sacrifices the european union, and individual friendly european nations, made towards the conduct of elections and institutionalisation of democratic norms in nigeria. as it had done before, the european union has supported the independent national electoral commission (inec) in the smooth conduct of the last general elections in nigeria, the outcome of which received worldwide acclamation. nigerians noted the huge contributions that europe has made towards the realisation of acceptable, free and fair elections in our country. today i will tell this august gathering that european investments are beginning to bear fruit. i am one of the returns on the european investments in the democratisation of nigeria. indeed, the present regime is the product of a democratic choice consciously made by the people of nigeria through the ballot box. democracy has come to nigeria to stay – sooner than many of us would have imagined. nigeria will be counted among the most stable, strongest and most virile democracies in africa. there may be strife and stresses, but these can be contained by the safety mechanisms of an electoral democracy. the events leading to the general elections in nigeria in the early part of the year 2015 gave strong indications that the country was in trouble. seeming anger, expressions of vituperation and open animosity, as well as threats and violence unleashed against the electorate, aimed at forcing them to vote for the status quo, were unpalatable developments that brought the stability of nigeria into question. the drama that took place at the national collation centre was a momentarily frightening situation, unleashed by desperate agents of the status quo with the purpose of maintaining their grip on the national resources for their selfish interests. the maturity and patience with which the officials of the independent national electoral commission under professor attahiru jega handled the matter saved the struggle for democracy and the huge european contributions. we must thank god that nigeria survived this drama. as i have stated in other fora, the actions of nigeria’s former president, goodluck ebele jonathan, are commendable. for the first time in the history of nigeria, a presidential candidate and sitting president conceded electoral defeat in defiance of calls by strong forces, including agents and benefactors of the regime, not to do so. i do appreciate the special relationship that exists between nigeria and the european union. the european union is nigeria’s main development partner and the pillar of support for the consolidation of democracy and the economic development of our country. we in africa appreciate that your problems are mainly managing prosperity and competition. however, our problems are poverty, disease and technological backwardness. it is not too difficult to appreciate the kind of challenges these problems pose: internal strife, refugees, boat people, drug and human trafficking, etc. chaos is not a neighbour anybody would wish to have. it is therefore in our collective interest to cooperate and tackle these serious problems in africa. i am pleased that we already have the nigeria-european union annual political dialogue, which has continued to strengthen our cooperation based on shared values and interests, especially in the areas of peace, security, democracy and good governance. through this forum we have been able to continue, on a regular basis, to share perspectives on important regional, continental and global issues, with a view to forging common positions. we are committed to intensifying political dialogue and cooperation in the context of the nigeria-european union joint way forward. both of us believe in peace and security, respect for human rights, democracy and good governance, equality and tolerance, as ways of developing prosperous and strong societies. furthermore, in the context of these european union-nigeria relations, i wish to acknowledge that the european union had, severally, condemned the activities of extremist groups, including boko haram in nigeria and in the entire economic community of west african states (ecowas). the european union had noted and commended nigeria’s development of a national counter-terrorism strategy and the amendment of the country’s counter—terrorism act in demonstration of the government’s commitment to finding a lasting solution to the threats posed by boko haram terror elements. nigeria appreciates the eu’s collaboration, especially in the area of technical support, capacity-building for security services and provision of development assistance. for our part, we have updated our rules of engagement in fighting terrorism, and we pay very close attention during operations to the treatment of captured terrorists, to civilians caught up in the conflict and, in general, to safeguarding property. our aim is to use the minimum force necessary in our fight against terrorists. in light of this, i wish to seize this opportunity to thank individual european member states for their assistance towards the success of the nigerian military onslaught against the boko haram terror elements. many european union member states have pledged to support our efforts in the rescue of the kidnapped chibok schoolgirls. it may interest you to know that in a recent meeting i had with the parents of the chibok girls, i assured them that the government would not rest until all the girls are rescued alive and reunited with their families. i remain fully committed to this pledge. (applause) since my assumption of office in may last year, we have reorganised the nigerian armed forces and repositioned them to deal decisively with the boko haram terrorists. indeed, all the local government areas that were hitherto under the control of the boko haram terrorists in adamawa, borno and yobe states in the north-eastern flank of nigeria, have been recaptured. internally displaced persons (idps) are gradually returning to their communities. the federal government is committed to rebuilding schools, hospitals and other vital infrastructure destroyed by the fleeing terrorists. currently, the activities of boko haram have been reduced to the sambisa forest, and their capacity to launch major offensives has been degraded. boko haram has now resorted to attacking soft targets, such as markets, mosques and churches, using innocent, under-age, hapless children to detonate locally-made improvised explosive devices (ieds). i must express our serious concerns about the alarming situation in southern libya, which is becoming a strategic time bomb for africa and indeed europe. the ungoverned swathe of land of southern libya has become a thriving arms bazaar which threatens the security of the sahel region, as well as the west africa region and beyond. we must therefore intensify our efforts to find a lasting solution to the libyan crisis. nigeria is a peace-loving nation and has played a critical role in conflict management and resolution within and outside africa. peace-keeping and peace-building have been part of nigeria’s foreign policy since independence. nigerian troops have participated in almost all united nations sub-regional and regional peace-keeping and peace-building operations. in spite of our current security challenges, nigeria is among the 10 top troop-contributing countries to the united nations peacekeeping operations around the world, with huge financial and human commitment. nigeria’s first outing on peacekeeping operations was to the congo, as part of the 20 000—strong united nations operations in the congo (onuc) in july 1960, of which i was privileged to be a member of the contingent in 1963 – barely three months before nigeria’s independence. nigeria participated in united nations operations in the congo for only three-and-a-half years. it contributed the third largest national force in the congo, after india and ethiopia. since then, nigeria has maintained a presence in global peacekeeping efforts. nigeria has indeed participated in the maintenance of law and order following a mutiny in tanganyika in 1964. in 1979 and 1982, soldiers of nigeria’s 21st infantry battalion and the 202 reconnaissance regiment were deployed to chad as a peacekeeping force to monitor a ceasefire and inspire confidence in the ongoing peace process. in addition, it contributed to the largest contingent when the economic community of west african states monitoring group (ecomog) was moved to sierra leone on a peacekeeping—cum—peace-enforcement mission. the economic community of west african states monitoring group recovered most parts of the country from the rebels and returned the ousted president, tejan kabbah, to office on 10 march 1998. under the mandate of the african union, nigeria embarked on a peacekeeping mission in são tomé and príncipe, where it succeeded in persuading dissident soldiers to subject themselves to constitutional authorities. besides this, nigeria has also deployed its personnel in rwanda and in the darfur region of sudan in order to maintain the peace in these two countries. nigeria has additionally deployed its contingent to the following african countries: angola (united nations angola verification mission); namibia (united nations transition assistance group); mozambique (united nations operations in mozambique); western sahara (united nations mission for the referendum in western sahara); somalia (united nations operation in somalia); and the auozou strip (united nations aouzou strip observer group). on migration from africa to europe: nigeria wishes to acknowledge and share the concerns expressed by the european union with respect to the influx of migrants from africa through the mediterranean sea, with its attendant loss of lives. in this regard, nigeria will collaborate with the european union to address illegal immigration to europe. the federal government of nigeria is making concerted efforts to address the push factors that propel migration, especially from nigeria, as both a destination and a transit country. in this year’s budget, the government has provided for over 500 000 graduate employment positions in the teaching profession alone. we are also collaborating with the states and local governments to strengthen skills acquisition centres, in order to train the teeming youth in various vocational skills so that they can be self-employed and eventually become employers of labour. we are also making efforts to diversify the economy, giving impetus to agriculture and solid minerals exploitation, to create wealth and employment. nigeria welcomes the outcome of the valletta eu-africa summit on migration, including the launching of the eur 1.8 billion emergency fund to address the root causes of migration from africa to europe. nigeria will work with the countries of the sahel and central africa to submit to the board of the emergency trust fund the projects that we have identified for funding in due course. the common agenda on migration and mobility (camm), which nigeria signed on 12 march 2015 and was indeed the first country to sign from sub-saharan africa, is a demonstration of the positive spirit of our cooperation with the european union in the field of migration and development. it is in the light of this understanding that i wish to propose the reciprocal visa waiver for holders of nigerian diplomatic and official passports attending official meetings and conferences in europe. economic partnership agreements (epas): the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, collectively endorsed by the economic community of west african states, is yet to be signed by nigeria and a few others. during economic partnership agreement negotiations, nigeria raised some pertinent technical issues that are yet to be addressed. giving due consideration to the mismatch of the two regions, europe and ecowas, in terms of technology and manufacturing experience, the manufacturers association of nigeria (man) and associated trade unions raised concerns over the negative impact of epas on nigeria’s industrialisation programme. nigeria is working towards addressing its own side of the issues. i am therefore urging our european union partners to also address our own concerns to allow for economic partnership agreements that are mutually beneficial and contribute to the prosperity of our people, in the context of our shared values and interests in promoting cordial bilateral trade relations. on oil theft and illegal bunkering: nigeria is facing the challenges of oil theft and illegal bunkering in the niger delta, as well as the recovery of illicit funds. it is therefore expedient to raise these issues with you, distinguished parliamentarians. in this regard, nigeria solicits the cooperation of the european parliament to support the efforts aimed at stemming these vices. our attempts to restore security, curb corruption and fight crime will result not only in improving social stability in nigeria but will re-open the doors for full economic relations with europe and the outside world. those who wish to invest in our country have vast opportunities, and we intend to guarantee the security of people and investments brought to nigeria. the whole world recently converged in paris, france, for the climate change conference (cop21). a positive approach to the issue resulted in mutually-acceptable decisions. the world leaders have forged a common platform in addressing the devastating effects of climate change, particularly in the underprivileged countries across the entire length and breadth of the globe. during this all-important global event, i declared my country’s position on climate change. i reiterate here that it portends serious threats to nigeria’s security and development. nigeria is watching helplessly as lake chad dries up. this has monumental consequences for the people living in the lake chad basin, whose livelihood has, for generations, been dependent on the resources of the lake. these resources are fast dissipating, throwing communities out of jobs. it is pertinent to mention that all the states contiguous to lake chad are facing the effects of climate change. collectively, we are under an obligation to face these common challenges. our collective efforts may not be enough, as we are constrained by the dearth of funds, technology and manpower to initiate the right solutions. we are therefore calling for quick global action to address the issues. indeed, these will serve in part as panaceas to the issues facing the countries sharing lake chad’s resources. in an effort to find a lasting solution to this problem, nigeria has contributed the sum of usd 5 million, which has already been used in the conduct of a holistic study on the inter-basin water transfer from the congo basin to lake chad. the study has revealed that the project will require the sum of usd 15 billion to reach completion. i wish to state that this study has indicated that the proposed lake chad project would be able to pay back this huge investment if it is private-sector driven. against this background, let me invite parliament to use its good offices by lending its support to the realisation of this laudable project. i wish once again to express, with all sense of humility, my profound appreciation to the president of the european parliament, members of the european parliament, european leaders and the people of this continent for the honour personally extended to me, and by and large the people of nigeria, to address the plenary session of one of the largest groups of democracies in the world. i thank you all for this rare honour. thank you very much. (loud and sustained applause)
member of thecommission.– madam president, i will read the official statement of the commission, but firstly let me underline that the commission and parliament have a very common interest. we were able, during the last week, to present a very robust and stronger type of approval system in europe. the commission will get supervisory powers, and we will make sure that member states enforce the rules. so there will be no new volkswagen cases in the future. now let me go onto the official commission statement. commission statement the commission is fully committed to putting very robust emission-testing procedures in place, as of september 2017, to measure real driving emissions (rde). the commission counts on the european parliament’s support in this respect. on 28 october 2015, the technical committee for motor vehicles (tcmv) voted on a draft commission regulation introducing rde limits for light duty vehicles. the commission is aware that the final result of the vote at the tcmv raised criticism from the european parliament as to the level of conformity factors. the commission considers the review mechanism of the draft regulations to be a very appropriate tool to address this criticism. the annual review of the second conformity factor is explicitly included in the enacting terms of the draft commission regulation. the objectives of this revision clause are to bring the conformity factor to 1, as soon as possible and at the latest by 2023. the commission is committed to making use of this revision clause to reduce the second conformity factor by 2017 already, and on an annual basis. due to this revision clause and the technical improvements which can be expected, manufacturers will, as of today, have to design vehicles that will comply with a conformity factor of 1. the commission welcomes the report on the reduction of pollutant emissions from road vehicles (dess report) and agrees with the european parliament on the need to ensure that the commission is empowered to adopt measures and requirements on rde test procedures, including conformity factors, through delegated acts following the revision of the euro 5/6 legislation. the commission is committed to working closely with the european parliament and with the council to reach a compromise to this end without delay. the commission will, in any case, ensure that the european parliament is duly and closely involved in the setting-out of the rde conformity factors. the commission believes that the joint work by both co-legislators will allow the establishment of a new, efficient and reliable approval framework for motor vehicle products.
chair of the envi committee.– madam president, i would like to thank commissioner bieńkowska for her presence today in the plenary, and also vice-president šefčovič, for their important work. this statement is proof of positive interinstitutional cooperation and represents a clear commitment for the future. i would like to invite all members of the european parliament to take this commitment into account during the vote – important for our european citizens.
in writing. ‒ on 13 november 2014, parliament approved an eu-moldova association agreement which establishes a comprehensive and deep free trade area. however, the agreement contains a bilateral safeguard clause which temporarily suspends the trade preferences in force if the import arrangements for products from the associated country are likely to cause damage to the european market. the safeguard clause is accompanied by an anti-circumvention mechanism, which allows the original rate of customs duties to be re-established if imported products exceed a certain threshold. i voted in favour of the proposal to implement these clauses because i consider it a priority to protect the european market and its balances.
in writing. ‒ the european union is moldova's main trading partner, accounting for 46.4% of the country's total trade. my vote in favour of the scholz report is motivated by the conviction that the eu-moldova association agreement represents an important step forward in relations with this country, a step which must, however, take due account of the risks for european producers and consumers. i therefore welcome the introduction of safeguard clauses in community legislation to protect the continent's industry and production, which are threatened by the danger of excessive imports. the entry of non-moldovan products onto the european market through a first crossing into the country may represent a problem whose solution can be effectively identified in the introduction of the anti-circumvention mechanisms already provided for in the agreement.
in writing. ‒ although this is not a problem, i have expressed my abstention on this measure, because, although it does not create a real risk for the italian agricultural production system, i do not agree with the assumptions of this agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu-republic of moldova association agreement represents an opportunity for both parties from both an economic and a geopolitical point of view. i also think it is important that the agreement in question contains appropriate safeguard clauses and anti-circumvention mechanisms and that they are applied effectively.
in writing. ‒ the safeguard clauses contained in the anti-circumvention mechanism of the trade association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova should not be understood as an anachronistic protectionist measure which does not belong to the political will of either the commission or the parliament, but rather as a form of protection for producers and consumers through the possibility of restoring the rate of the npf customs duty if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova (listed in annex xv-c) exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. the anti-circumvention clauses are important to avoid the importation into the union of non-moldovan products via moldova, using the advantages of the agreement to circumvent the 'rules of origin' requirements. chapter ii of the proposal (article 13) lays down the procedures for the application of this mechanism, which is without prejudice to the application of the measures defined in chapter i (safeguard measures). it is important to promote trade association agreements and international free trade, but this must be done on the basis of transparency and mutual respect for the rules.
in writing. - i abstained. the eu-moldova association agreement was signed in june 2014 and has been provisionally applied since september 2014. this regulation is nothing more than an ancillary measure providing for the possibility of suspending the preferential duties granted to moldova for a period of up to six months in the event of excessive entry of products into the eu. the measure itself is not at all problematic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i shall abstain for several reasons: our delegation did not support and opposed the association agreement with a country traditionally influenced by russia, moldova. this undue interference in a geopolitical area which is not very close to ours is not, however, of commercial interest to our companies. there is no concrete risk for the italian and paduan production and agricultural system from moldova; if the problem exists, our delegation does not believe in the operation of safeguard procedures which, when the facts are tested, almost always prove to be slow and not very effective for the purposes for which they are intended.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation implementing the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. the bilateral safeguard clause allows for the temporary suspension of the preferences granted to the republic of moldova in the event of an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing substantial economic injury to the domestic industry of the european union. this shall only be done subject to an obligation on the part of the union to consult the moldovan authorities prior to the imposition of a definitive safeguard measure. in line with the report, i also think that the commission's proposal should be welcomed, as it is necessary to incorporate into union law the instruments necessary for the application of temporary safeguard measures in the event of an increase in imports causing economic damage to the union market and its producers.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova, like most eu trade agreements, contains a bilateral safeguard clause. in other words, this instrument allows preferences to be temporarily suspended in the event that their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. i voted in favour of the report also in the light of some positive elements in the text, such as the obligation for the commission to submit an annual report on the application, implementation and compliance with the regulation and the obligation for the union to hold consultations with the moldovan authorities before a definitive safeguard measure is imposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. these trade protection instruments are indispensable to prevent infringements of the agreement. in particular, the bilateral safeguard clause allows for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences in the event that their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. in addition, the agreement also includes an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which allows the customs duty rate to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ a sound neighbourhood policy is one that promotes the growth of neighbouring countries without harming their own development potential. the safeguard clauses to which this report refers are exactly these: a correct valve to prevent imbalances. i have considered this proposal from this point of view and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation because it provides the necessary instruments to protect european producers in the event of circumvention attempts and will also make it possible to apply the bilateral safeguard clause. these elements are necessary because when creating deep free trade areas such as the eu-moldova case in question, account must be taken of possible issues that could arise to the disadvantage of european producers, which can be addressed by ensuring the use of well-established trade instruments such as the aforementioned safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ as with most of our trade agreements, the association agreement with moldova contains a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows preferences to be temporarily suspended in the event that their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. in addition, the agreement also includes an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which allows the re-establishment of the rate of the customs duty of the npf if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. the proposal applies the provisions of the eu-moldova association agreement which parliament approved on 13 november 2014. among the positive elements: the obligation for the commission to submit an annual report on the application, implementation and compliance of the regulation and the obligation for the union to consult the moldovan authorities before the imposition of a definitive safeguard measure. this has been the subject of negotiation and agreement between the eu and moldova and is reflected in article 160 of the association agreement. my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ since september 2014, following the conclusion of the association agreement, the european union has become the largest trading partner of the republic of moldova: the substantial increase in trade has seen exports to the european union double or even triple for some products. i am convinced that trade must continue to be an effective instrument to support the process of deep structural reforms in moldova, increasingly contributing to the stabilisation of the country, especially in the light of recent political developments. the proposal is largely based on regulations already adopted for free trade agreements with south korea, central america and colombia/peru and creates a sound safety net for european industry and producers, protecting them in the event of particularly critical conditions for the european market. it also introduces an obligation for the commission to submit an annual report to parliament and the council, ensuring adequate democratic control over the application of this regulation. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation implementing the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova contains a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows for the temporary suspension of trade preferences in the event that their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. the agreement also includes an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate of customs duty to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to introduce into eu internal law the instrument necessary to enable the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism. that is why i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because i consider it to be an agreement of no commercial interest to our businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, because i believe it is important to have in place measures that can safeguard the european economy in the event of extraordinary circumstances. i agree with the need for a safeguard clause to suspend trade preferences in the event of an unexpected and significant increase in imports which would cause economic damage to european industry. i also think it is appropriate to provide for an anti-circumvention mechanism that can be triggered in the event of imports over a threshold not validly justified, measures which are already discussed in the trade agreement and which need to be simply transposed into a regulation. the european commission should also report regularly on the effects of this regulation, which will enable parliament to exercise the necessary democratic control on behalf of the european citizens. finally, the substantive agreement with the council will speed up the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. in addition to the association agreement with georgia, we voted today on the agreement with moldova. it contains both an anti-circumvention mechanism, as in the previous one, and a bilateral safeguard clause. the proposal also requires the commission to publish an annual report on the application and compliance with the regulation, allowing parliament to scrutinise the commission's implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement on safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism. this agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) customs duty rate to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ it is important for the eu to build trade relations with its neighbours, but we cannot put our own economy at risk. liberalising tariffs, while maintaining bilateral safeguards, together with an anti-circumvention mechanism is the surest way forward. i have expressed my support for this agreement because i believe it can be a vehicle for development on both sides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement. the regulation contains both an anti-circumvention mechanism and a bilateral safeguard clause. the proposal also requires the commission to publish an annual report on the application and compliance with the regulation, allowing parliament to monitor the commission's implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. ‒ while i welcome trade agreements between the union and third parties, i believe that the safeguard clause in the agreement with moldova, as is customary in eu trade agreements, is necessary to ensure that the preferences granted do not distort competition rules to the detriment of the domestic industry. i also think that the anti-circumvention mechanism to prevent non-moldovan products from being imported into the union via moldova is essential. i therefore say that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, following the entry into force of the free trade agreement, union imports from moldova increased by 20%, while imports of agricultural products increased particularly significantly, by 30%. in view of the unjustified increase in imports from moldova, which could cause economic damage to the union market and its producers, i voted in favour of this report. the agreement provides for the temporary suspension, for two years, renewable for two years in exceptional cases, of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. the commission proposal also provides for an anti-circumvention mechanism, which restores the most-favoured-nation rate of customs duty if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade agreements with other countries include the one with moldova. like most european agreements, this one also contains a safeguard clause to protect our producers. the adoption of the proposed regulation will implement the obligations of moldova under the agreement. for these reasons we have approved the commission's text, which also includes the possibility for the european legislator to participate actively in the decision on the progress of the agreements with the country in question, and thus to be able to express an opinion on whether or not the safeguard clause is applied, and to invite the union to request consultations with the moldovan authorities before the clause is finally applied. it is an agreement aimed at transparency without neglecting european interests.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain because, beyond the merits of the matter, i have some concerns about the current policy of the european union underlying this type of agreement.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova signed in 2014 introduced a preferential trade regime guaranteeing mutual free market access. following the entry into force of the agreement, imports into the union from moldova increased by 20%, while imports of agricultural products increased by as much as 30%. the report we have voted on today therefore calls for the implementation of the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanism provided for in the agreement. these measures are imposed where a product originating in moldova is imported into the union in such increased quantities that it causes serious injury to the union industry and provide for the suspension or reintroduction of the customs duty on the product concerned. the anti-circumvention mechanism also prevents the importation into the union of non-moldovan products via moldova by using the advantages of the agreement to circumvent the origin requirements. i voted in favour of the report because it protects european agricultural producers from excessive imports of moldovan products.
in writing. ‒ as with most trade agreements, this association agreement with moldova contains a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows preferences to be temporarily suspended in the event that their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party. in addition, the agreement also includes an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which allows the re-establishment of the rate of the customs duty of the npf if imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. the proposal applies the provisions of the eu-moldova association agreement which parliament approved on 13 november 2014. the adoption of the proposal for a regulation is necessary to implement the obligations of moldova under the agreement in order to protect, where appropriate, eu producers. positive elements to be noted are the obligation for the commission to submit an annual report on the application, implementation and compliance of the regulation and the obligation of the union to hold consultations with the moldovan authorities before the imposition of a definitive safeguard measure.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement, signed on 27 june 2014, provides for the elimination of non-tariff barriers, regulatory alignment and binding rules on investment and services. as already provided for in other agreements concluded with the eastern partnership, the creation of a comprehensive and in-depth free trade area is accompanied by the provision of a safeguard clause and an anti-circumvention mechanism. both instruments are generally required when it is considered that the internal market may be affected by the excess of the threshold of allowable imports. i voted in favour because, while i believe it is important to proceed with the progressive economic integration of the associated countries, the protection of the internal market and its consumers is a priority.
in writing. ‒ with a total of €2.6 billion, the eu is georgia's most important trading partner. today i voted in favour of the landsbergis report on the proposal for a regulation implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism in the eu-georgia trade association agreement. the purpose of the regulation is to re-establish customs duties in the event of imports of certain agricultural products exceeding a certain threshold, in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. the commission has also received comments from the georgian authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measure is necessary to ensure the effective enforcement of the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree with the eu-georgia association agreement because i considered it to be an interference by europe in the russian sphere of influence, and moreover with a country that has no commercial interests for our companies. for these very reasons i have not voted for this text and i have abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu-georgia association agreement represents an opportunity for both parties from both an economic and a geopolitical point of view. i also think it is important that the agreement in question contains an appropriate anti-circumvention mechanism and that it is applied effectively.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with georgia introduced an ambitious preferential trade regime between both parties known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). it is important to promote trade association agreements and international free trade, but this must be done on the basis of transparency and mutual respect for the rules. to this end, safeguard clauses have been inserted into the anti-circumvention mechanism of the trade association agreement between the european union and the republic of georgia: they do not constitute an anachronistic protectionist measure, which does not belong to the political will of either the commission or the parliament, but a form of protection for producers and consumers by the possibility of restoring the rate of customs duty if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia (listed in annex ii-c) exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. the anti-circumvention clauses are important to avoid the importation into the union of non-georgian products through georgia using the advantages of the agreement to circumvent the 'rules of origin' requirements.
in writing. - i abstained. the eu-georgia association agreement was signed in june 2014 and has been provisionally applied since september 2014. this regulation is nothing but an ancillary measure providing for the possibility of suspending the preferential duties granted to georgia for a period of up to six months in the event of excessive entry of products into the eu. the measure itself is not at all problematic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but our abstention is justified for several reasons: our delegation did not support and spoke against the association agreement with a country, georgia, which has traditionally been influenced by russia. this undue interference in an area of political influence which is not very close to ours is, moreover, of no commercial interest to our companies. there is no specific risk for the agricultural and production system in italy and the po valley as stated by georgia; if the problem exists, our delegation does not believe in the operation of safeguard procedures which, when the facts are tested, almost always prove to be slow and not very effective for the purposes for which they are intended.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and georgia. the anti-circumvention mechanism allows the suspension of a more favourable customs duty on imports of certain agricultural products from georgia in order to restore the original tariff rate whenever a certain threshold is exceeded without any justification. the draft resolution also provides for the application of another circumvention clause, which makes it possible to prevent imports into the eu of non-georgian products which, through georgia, would be able to enter the european market thanks to the advantages provided for by the abovementioned association agreement. in particular, it is intended to prevent other countries from circumventing the requirements of 'rules of origin' and still being able to bring their goods into europe. the proposed regulation implements the provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement which parliament gave its consent to on 18 december 2014 and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-georgia association agreement, as i had no particular problems with it. in particular, this agreement provides for an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) customs duty rate to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, in order to incorporate into eu internal legislation the instrument necessary to make the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism possible.
in writing. ‒ international trade law attaches great importance to rules of origin, because too lax rules risk creating outright fraud to the detriment of consumers, and also damaging confidence in producers and exporters in an entire country. the anti-circumvention mechanism to which this proposal refers is, in my view, well calibrated to continue the successful commercial cooperation with georgia: clear agreements, long friendship!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism because it provides for the possibility of reintroducing the rate of customs duty when agricultural imports from georgia exceed a threshold without justification. the proposal is in line with the association agreement with that country, dated 18 december 2014, with the aim of preventing the possible emergence of trade disadvantage situations vis-à-vis european producers.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement provides for an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) customs duty rate to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is necessary to establish in eu internal law the instrument necessary for the application of this mechanism. for imports of products listed in annex ii-c to the agreement, subject to the anti-circumvention mechanism, in the event that the threshold is exceeded, the commission may decide to temporarily suspend the preferential duty applied to the products concerned for a period of up to six months from the date of publication of the decision. the proposal requires the commission to submit to the co-legislators, and subsequently to make public, an annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation. the european parliament may invite the commission to an ad hoc meeting of its committee responsible to present and explain the issues related to the application of the regulation. my vote is in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement provides for an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) customs duty rate to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. i voted in favour of this measure because a regulation of the european parliament and the council is needed to establish in eu internal legislation the instrument necessary for the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism with georgia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to implement an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' between the european union and georgia. this mechanism provides for the possibility to re-introduce the most-favoured-nation tariff when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without due justification of their exact origin. the european union is georgia's main trading partner and i therefore believe that an agreement that promotes transparency in trade is essential. i am convinced that this agreement will bring mutual benefits, improving the overall quality of trade.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because i consider it to be an agreement of no commercial interest to our companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the s&d group has from the outset supported the rapporteur's approach, based on close coordination with the council, which will allow an agreement to be reached in a short time between the two co-legislators. the eu is the caucasian country's main trading partner and the introduction of an anti-circumvention clause to prevent non-georgian products from reaching the european market is therefore crucial to protect not only georgian producers from fraud but above all european citizens. it is important that this proposal for a regulation, implemented on the basis of the eu-georgia association agreement, imposes an obligation on the commission to submit an annual report on the application and implementation of the said regulation so that the co-legislators can exercise the monitoring function over the implementation of the european trade policy and to give a strong signal of transparency by the institutions.
in writing. the eu-georgia association agreement provides for the 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which is a key element of the eu's external relations policy. in view of this, i have decided to give a favourable opinion, since the anti-circumvention allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate of customs duty to be reinstated in the event that imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold. the mechanism also prevents countries with bilateral free trade agreements with georgia from using the agreement with the union to circumvent the requirements on 'rules of origin'.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement introduces a preferential trade regime between both parties, known as the comprehensive free trade area. the agreement includes a so-called 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation customs duty when imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without adequate justification of their exact origin. the inclusion of the so-called 'circumvention clause' is however necessary to prevent imports into the eu of non-georgian products through georgia and to prevent countries with bilateral free trade agreements with georgia from doing so.
in writing. ‒ as the data show, trade relations between the eu and georgia have a very high growth potential. it is also clear, however, that unchecked growth can be very dangerous. that said, i am satisfied with the safeguard clauses and the anti-circumvention mechanisms provided for, and for those reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement provides for the anti-circumvention mechanism which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate of customs duty to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold in the absence of a valid justification as to their exact origin. i have chosen to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement contains a so-called 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation tariff when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without satisfactory justification of their exact origin. as in the case of moldova, i believe that the introduction of such a mechanism is of paramount importance. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement, signed on 27 june 2014, introduces an ambitious preferential trade regime between both parties. the agreement provides, inter alia, for an 'anti-circumvention' mechanism, which allows the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate of customs duty to be reinstated if imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold. the european commission may decide to temporarily suspend the preferential duty applied to certain products or to determine that such suspension is not appropriate. i voted in favour of this mechanism to prevent imports into the eu of non-georgian products via georgia, taking advantage of the provisions of the agreement and, in particular, to prevent countries with bilateral free trade agreements with georgia, such as turkey, from using the agreement with the union to circumvent the requirements on 'rules of origin'.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain because i am not convinced that the measure will bring any tangible benefits to businesses and, more generally, to the economies of european countries.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and georgia signed in 2014 introduced a preferential trade regime that guarantees mutual free market access. to protect producers from both sides, the agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation customs duty when imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without due justification of their exact origin. in addition, the 'circumvention clause' is necessary to prevent imports into the eu of non-georgian products through georgia by taking advantage of the agreement and to prevent countries with bilateral free trade agreements with georgia, such as turkey, from using the agreement with the union to circumvent the origin requirements. the anti-circumvention mechanism will therefore temporarily suspend the tariff preferences contained in the agreement, in order to protect european producers and citizens. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the who estimated that in 2010 there were about 2.5 million blind people and almost 24 million visually impaired people in europe. the eu's signature of the marrakesh treaty, which aims to facilitate access to published texts for people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise difficult, was an important milestone in the process of strengthening the commitment of the european institutions to upholding the right to education of people with disabilities. the exception to copyright in the treaty is of fundamental importance as it introduces the possibility of transnational book exchanges, facilitating the dissemination and sharing of texts. the ratification of the treaty must therefore be a priority and that is why i voted in favour of the report by the committee on petitions. seven member states have not yet ratified it, and the eu must therefore commit itself to making culture truly accessible to all citizens.
in writing. ‒ according to estimates by the world health organisation, 285 million people worldwide are visually impaired, of whom 39 million are blind and 246 million are visually impaired. however, only 5% of books published in europe are available in accessible formats for the visually impaired. i believe that this is unacceptable and i urge the eu to ratify the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i firmly believe that it is the duty of the union and the member states to ratify the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible to put an end to the terrible discrimination against blind and partially sighted citizens.
in writing. ‒ according to the who (world health organization), there are 26.35 million visually impaired people in europe (including 2.55 million blind people and 23.8 million partially sighted people). despite this considerable figure, only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are available in accessible formats. the european union and its member states are parties to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and in april 2014 signed the marrakesh treaty, which affirms the principle that copyright is an important exception to the need to allow blind and partially sighted persons to have equal access to knowledge: the books for the deaf and the blind can be exchanged, at a transnational level, between organizations. the european union and its member states have a political and moral duty to ratify and implement the treaty they have signed in practice, in order to put an end to the unfair discrimination against citizens with visual disabilities and to facilitate access to knowledge and education on an equal footing.
in writing. - i vote for it. the resolution calls on the council and the member states to speed up the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty, without making such ratification conditional on a review of the eu legal framework. the italian blind union stresses the importance of the marrakesh agreement to facilitate access to published works for blind people, people with visual impairments or people with other printing difficulties.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled under rule 216 (2) on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, on the basis of the petitions received, in particular petition no 924/2011. it is estimated that over 26 million people with visual impairments live in europe, but only a small percentage of books are published in accessible formats. this is a violation of the right to education of visually impaired people. i believe that access to cultural materials should be guaranteed to all, by removing any possible unreasonable or discriminatory barriers. in april 2014, the european union and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty, which calls on signatory countries to do their utmost to make it easier for blind and visually impaired people to read printed texts. the motion for a resolution calls on the council and the member states of the union to speed up the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ there are 2.55 million blind people and 23.8 million visually impaired people in europe (who 2010). the marrakesh treaty aims to facilitate access to published works for people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled. seven eu member states have formed a minority bloc which impedes the process of ratification of the treaty by the eu. the report by mrs wikström therefore urges the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process, without making such ratification subject to a review of the eu legal framework or to a decision by the court of justice of the european union. i had no choice but to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that facilitating access to published works for blind people, people with visual impairments or people with other print disabilities is essential to guaranteeing the right of blind people to education, without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities. in 2010, the world health organization estimated that more than 26 million people with visual impairments live in europe, and only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% of books published in developing countries are available in accessible formats. i hope that the ratification of the marrakesh treaty will be the first step towards tackling this problem with determination.
in writing. ‒ in my political experience i deal with many people and deal with many issues, and so i am lucky to always be able to learn something. a big lesson that i find myself repeating over and over again along my journey is that "disability" is a term that evokes a world and therefore cannot be generalized to infer anything about those who suffer from it. in fact, the problems that fall under the name of 'disability' are so numerous that the world of the disabled is extremely heterogeneous. there is a hotel in asti where only disabled children work and i can assure you that it is an example of efficiency. i can therefore testify that there is no valid reason to deny disabled people access to education and many other services that are usually taken for granted by the so-called 'able'. i voted for this resolution with great indignation, in the hope that this message will reach the right people loud and clear.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the motion tabled by the committee on petitions because an acceleration of the ratification procedure of the marrakesh treaty would bring great benefits to the visually impaired, who number more than 26 million in europe, including both those who are blind and those who have only partial vision.
in writing. ‒ making published works accessible to all blind and visually impaired people is an act of civility. if the civilization of a society is also recognized by the accessibility of places, the accessibility of books for 26,350,000 visually impaired people is a fact of not secondary importance: in fact, only five percent of books are available in accessible formats. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty.
in writing. the marrakesh treaty aims to facilitate access to published works for people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled. i voted in favour of this resolution, which arises from the petitions received by the committee on petitions, to ask the seven member states which have not yet ratified the treaty, including italy, to proceed without further delay and to listen to the requests of the many european citizens who are visually impaired.
in writing. i have long been a supporter of the campaign for the early entry into force of the marrakesh treaty, which finally recognises the right of the blind to wider access to culture. the committee on petitions is doing a very good job of keeping the campaign alive. the european parliament is the institution which has spent the most money at international level to defend this right. the council continues to hold thousands and thousands of citizens hostage to archaic rules which discriminate against a fundamental right, that of knowledge and culture. i therefore also call on the council to find an agreement that will unblock the remaining obstacles and i call on the european commission to play a more active role in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the european parliament's resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty on the basis of the petitions received, in particular petition no 924/2011, because i believe it is essential that the council accelerate and rapidly approve the marrakesh treaty aimed at facilitating access to published works for blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled people. i consider it very serious that six member states are deplorably late in approving the treaty, which in effect blocks the realization of a sacred right of the approximately 2 550 000 blind and 23 800 000 visually impaired citizens of europe: 26 million citizens demanding respect for their right to read, to access culture and information and to accessible formats. national copyright laws cannot and should not be a hindrance to this right and i firmly believe that citizens with visual impairments have the right to the same texts and reading as other citizens. i therefore call on the member states to do more to speed up the adoption of the treaty and to develop a market for accessible texts that exceeds the current very low rate of 5%.
in writing. articles 24 and 30 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities emphasise the right of persons with disabilities to education. petitions by european citizens concerning the difficulties of accessing printed texts show that the eu has not paid due attention to this issue. it is imperative to ensure access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and i would stress the importance of citizens' requests, in this case through the instrument of petitions, which is a tangible sign of democracy and participation.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament is finally working on the marrakesh treaty, which gives basic accessibility to millions of visually impaired people in the eu. we need to do everything in our power to make the world accessible to all visually impaired people. this is a decisive step in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the petition for the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, which is aimed at greater protection of the right to read for disabled citizens. the copyright exception in the treaty is of fundamental importance, allowing for a wider distribution of books in formats accessible to the visually impaired and to people who cannot read on paper. it is important to note that the treaty also introduces the possibility of exchanges of books at transnational level, in order to promote the dissemination and sharing of books, which contribute to the enrichment of the cultural heritage of visually impaired people. the ratification of this treaty is significant because it is the right response to the very small number of books published in accessible versions for the blind and partially sighted. fortunately, this treaty has already been ratified by a number of member states, although delays persist in some key states, which we call on today to work towards speeding up the ratification procedures. the european union wants to be at the forefront, especially in the field of the protection of rights, and the marrakesh treaty is moving in that direction.
in writing. ‒ given that the eu has been bound by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities since 2011 and that currently people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled do not yet have full access to books and printed material, i therefore consider the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, as supplemented by petitions, to be inevitable. my vote, therefore, can only be positive.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the world health organisation estimated that there were 2.55 million blind and 23.8 million partially sighted people in europe, for a total of 26.35 million visually impaired people. only 5% of all books published in developed countries, and less than 1% of books published in developing countries, are available in accessible formats for people with visual impairments. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is intended to speed up the process of ratification of the marrakesh treaty, which aims to facilitate access to printed texts for blind people.
in writing. ‒ the council and member states must accelerate the process of ratification of the marrakesh treaty to ensure the right to education for persons with disabilities, without discrimination, while also ensuring that intellectual property laws do not constitute an unreasonable or discriminatory barrier to access to cultural materials by persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled. this is a necessary step to ensure that millions of blind and partially sighted people around the world have access to education, culture and leisure.
in writing. ‒ food safety must be a priority for the european union. the placing on the european market of food and feed products based on or containing genetically modified soya is a very sensitive issue that affects the daily lives of millions of citizens. i voted in favour of the objection procedure for the placing on the market of these products because the application for authorization submitted by bayer risks endangering the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of genetically modified organisms resistant to herbicides can pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens and the environment. today i voted in favour of the objections to the authorisation of three types of genetically modified soya, including fg72, because i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. as regards fg72 soybean, in particular, the concern concerns the presence of the proteins 2mepsps and hppd w336 which confer tolerance to glyphosate and isoxaflutol based herbicides. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, a specialized agency of the who, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. given the potential health hazard, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm feed as soon as possible, in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified soybean fg72.
in writing. ‒ in line with our priorities on health and food safety, i share the rejection of the commission proposal voted on today. i also reiterate the need for the commission to come up with a new proposal for gmos in food and feed, which will assess more closely their impact on the environment and human health.
in writing. i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision on genetically modified soybean fg72 is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i therefore believe that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. - i vote for it. since the adoption of directive (eu) 2015/412, which allows member states to prohibit the cultivation of authorised gmos within their territory, the commission, despite the continuing deadlock in the competent committee due to cross-checks, is unblocking all pending gmo authorisation procedures. therefore, the envi committee is systematically proposing objections to any newly authorized gmo. unfortunately, in these cases parliament's objections are not binding on the commission, since they are implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection concerning the authorisation of genetically modified soybean fg72. in june 2011, bayer cropscience ag submitted to the competent authority of belgium an application to place on the market food, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean. this type of soy expresses a protein that gives tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides, a substance that the international agency for research on cancer has classified as possibly carcinogenic to humans. the draft commission implementing decision therefore appears not to comply with union law as it does not ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, nor the effective functioning of the internal market. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection to this draft implementing decision by asking the commission, as indicated in the motion for a resolution, to submit a new legislative proposal which takes account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level regarding the safety of gmos for health and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the resolution opposes the commission's proposal to allow the placing on the market of food and feed containing glyphosate-resistant transgenic soya. this opposition is based mainly on the fact that glyphosate-resistant transgenic soybeans have recently been classified as probably carcinogenic. in view of the serious risks which may arise from the use of this product, i voted in favour of the resolution opposing the commission's initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulations (ec) no 1829/2003 and (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ it was not easy to decide what to vote on this objection, because there is always the dilemma between science and belief, modernity and tradition, experimentation and tranquility. in this particular case i voted in favour of the objection, that the authorization should not be granted, because i have serious doubts about how this product enters the food chain and i would like to have had the time to inform myself better, which is not possible due to the time involved in the procedures for the approval of delegated acts by the european commission.
in writing. the resolution calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the eu's food and feed policy is properly implemented. on 24 june 2011, bayer cropscience ag submitted an application to place on the market foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from glyphosate-resistant soybean fg72. the commission proposal to grant the authorisation was discussed in the standing committee in 2015, but neither a majority in favour nor against was obtained. since the international agency for research on cancer, a specialized agency of the who, has classified glyphosate as a probable carcinogen, i am voting in favour of the resolution and therefore oppose the placing on the market of fg72 soybean.
in writing. the process of authorising gmos in europe is not democratic. in this case, as in all previous cases of authorisation, the commission acted unilaterally despite the fact that the proposal had not been adopted by the relevant technical committee. i therefore supported the objection to the authorization of gm fg72 soybean, also because of the scientific doubts that gmos entail. the soybean concerned expresses the protein 2mepsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides and the protein hppd w336 which confers tolerance to isoxaflutol-based herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized agency of the world health organization classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the motion objecting to any new gmo authorisation.
in writing. i strongly supported the proposal to reject the adoption of the delegated act on the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean relating to the three patents filed today. i particularly agree with the text on the precautionary principle on gmos, as we in the european parliament voted on a few weeks ago when we considered the proposal to amend the 2003 gmo regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified fg72 soybean, because i believe that the european commission should come forward with a new comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm feed and carefully assess the environmental and health impact. i think that the european parliament made it clear in its vote last october that it was opposed to the commission's proposal on gmos. many doubts and questions remain, including the long-standing practice of adopting delegated acts on gmos in the absence of a technical opinion from the scientific committee representing the member states. the introduction of pesticide-resistant gmos, such as genetically modified fg72 soybeans, poses environmental and health problems, leading to increased use of pesticides. i believe that these concerns must be addressed by efsa and the commission with appropriate impact assessments and above all require comprehensive, clear legislation that takes due account of the concerns of our citizens. pending such legislation, i therefore consider it necessary to reject the commission's proposed implementing decision.
in writing. i voted against this objection. the genetically modified soybean mst-fgø72-2 expresses the protein 2mepsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. in this respect, i have to specify that on 12 november 2015 the european food safety authority (efsa) updated the toxicological profile of glyphosate. the peer review group concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to be genotoxic (i.e. to damage dna). finally, i would point out that efsa has established an acute reference dose (ard) for glyphosate of 0.5 mg per kg body weight. this is significant as it is the first time that such an exposure threshold has been applied to a substance.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled under rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soya. in addressing such a subject it is clear that the primary need is, in addition to compliance with union law, to ensure high levels of protection of human life and health, taking also into account animal welfare and health, and to take due account of the interests of consumers.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2), i consider the choice to be in line with the eu regulatory provisions. therefore, i do not feel that i support the objection and i shall vote against.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect the health of the public, i thought it appropriate to support the objection to the authorisation of this type of genetically modified soybean.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the european commission's proposals to allow three new types of herbicide-resistant genetically modified soya in food and feed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms. this particular substance is in fact classified as 'probably carcinogenic' by the world health organization (who) in an assessment issued in 2015. we also call on the commission to propose a new, clearer and more consistent authorisation system for genetically modified food and feed, to protect human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. i am against gmos and i am if possible even more against gmos which, like fg72 soybean, express resistance to herbicides: in this case the notorious glyphosate and isoxaflutol, whose safety data sheet reads: "highly toxic to aquatic organisms". obviously, if a crop is not affected by the use of isoxaflutol, it will tend to use more of it. rain transfers the weedkillers to watercourses - the very environment in which the weedkiller isoxaflutol is highly toxic - and to groundwater. according to the 12th national report on pesticides and water prepared by ispra (the higher institute for protection and research under the ministry of the environment), italian waters are full of everything, starting with herbicides: up to 60 different substances in the same sample. the substances in this cocktail can produce an additive effect or, worse, a synergistic effect. in any case, the damage is greater than the simple sum of its components. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to use its own resources to support the development of the eu's energy sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which strongly calls on the european commission not to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2) designed by monsanto to tolerate glyphosate spraying. once again the big biotech companies have tried to sell gm products to 500 million european citizens. glyphosate-resistant soybeans and glyphosate are yet another commercial package designed by monsanto, a multinational corporation that, in order to increase its profits, is ready to override the health of people without any scruples, as shown by the case of argentina. glyphosate, the most widely used weedkiller in the world, has been classified by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) and the world health organization (who) as "probably carcinogenic" to humans, and we in the five star movement have long campaigned for its ban in europe. we therefore have no intention of allowing the cultivation of organisms specially modified to tolerate this pesticide on european territory. since the beginning of my mandate i have been fighting to make europe a gmo-free area and with this vote i reiterate a firm no to the entry of transgenic products into european territory.
in writing. ‒ the five star movement has always defended the interests of citizens, both in italy and in europe, and has fought against the placing on the market of food and feed containing genetically modified soya. the application for authorization submitted by monsanto requires unanimous agreement by the scientific community, and this agreement has not yet been reached. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection procedure.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of genetically modified organisms resistant to herbicides can pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens and the environment. today i voted in favour of the objections to the authorisation of three types of genetically modified soya, including mon 87708 x mon 89788, because i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. as regards soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788, in particular, the concern concerns the presence of the dmo protein conferring tolerance to dicamba-based herbicides and the epsps protein conferring tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, a specialized agency of the who, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in view of the potential health hazard, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm-based feed as soon as possible, in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788.
in writing. i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision on genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788 is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i therefore consider that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. - i vote for it. since the adoption of directive (eu) 2015/412, which allows member states to prohibit the cultivation of authorised gmos within their territory, the commission, despite the continuing deadlock in the competent committee due to cross-checks, is unblocking all pending gmo authorisation procedures. therefore, the envi committee is systematically proposing objections to any newly authorized gmo. unfortunately, in these cases parliament's objections are not binding on the commission, since they are implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection concerning the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. in august 2011, monsanto europe sa submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean. this type of soy expresses a protein that gives tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides, a substance that the international agency for research on cancer has classified as possibly carcinogenic to humans. the draft commission implementing decision therefore does not appear to be in accordance with union law, failing to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, and the effective functioning of the internal market. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection to this draft implementing decision by asking the commission, as indicated in the motion for a resolution, to submit a new legislative proposal which takes account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level regarding the safety of gmos for health and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution opposing the commission's initiative to authorise the placing on the market of food and feed products made from gm soybeans resistant to glyphosate and dicamba. although gm soybean feed may represent an attractive solution for farmers, as the gm event makes it resistant to several herbicides, these are substances that have been classified as possibly carcinogenic and therefore highly harmful to both animals and humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulations (ec) no 1829/2003 and (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ despite my usual openness to innovation, i voted in favour of the objection (and therefore against the authorisation) of this product because i believe that in the food sector one must go with the lead feet and do a thousand additional checks, which i am not sure has happened for this product.
in writing. the process of authorising gmos in europe is not democratic. in this case, as in all previous cases of authorization, the commission acted unilaterally, even though the proposal had not been adopted by the relevant technical committee. therefore, i supported the objection to the authorisation of gm soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788, also because of the scientific doubts that gmos entail. the soybean concerned expresses the dmo proteins conferring tolerance to dicamba-based herbicides and the epsps protein conferring tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized agency of the world health organization classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution objecting to any new gmo authorisation.
in writing. i strongly supported the proposal to reject the adoption of the delegated act on the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybeans. i particularly agree with the text on the precautionary principle on gmos, as we in the european parliament voted on a few weeks ago when we considered the proposal to amend the 2003 gmo regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1), because i believe that the european commission should come forward with a new comprehensive proposal on gmos and carefully assess their environmental and health impact. i think that the european parliament made it clear in its vote last october that it was opposed to the commission's proposal on gmos and that it wanted adequate guarantees and a new legislative proposal. many doubts and questions remain, given the long-standing practice of adopting decisions on gmos without a technical opinion from the standing committee of the member states. the introduction of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, high in oleic acid and low in linoleic acid and containing glyphosate-resistant proteins, poses environmental and health concerns and leads to increased use of those pesticides. i believe that these concerns should be adequately addressed by efsa and the european commission through impact assessments and require comprehensive, clear legislation that takes due account of the concerns of our citizens.
in writing. i voted against this objection. the genetically modified soybean mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1 expresses the protein epsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. with regard to the latter, extensive studies have been carried out on its effects on humans and animals. those studies were conducted by the european food safety authority (efsa), which concluded that neither epidemiological data (i.e. human) nor the results of animal studies showed a causal link between exposure to glyphosate and the development of cancer in humans. this is the result of a thorough study carried out by efsa scientists and representatives of risk assessment bodies in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the objection under rule 106: authorisation of genetically modified soybeans. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect the health of the public, i thought it appropriate to support the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified soya beans in this case as well.
in writing. ‒ i have contributed with my 'yes' to the adoption of this resolution. mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean is tolerant to the notorious glyphosate and dicamba. of course, the grower will tend to use more of both, in the belief that the crop will not be affected. i am strongly against gmos and even more so, if possible, against those which express resistance to herbicides. the german professional toxicology study forcare published a report last november in which it emphasises that efsa, in assessing the safety of mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybean, did not take into account the combined effects of the residues of these two herbicides contained in the soybean itself. there is no scientific literature on this subject, but one consideration seems reasonable: glyphosate and dicamba residues, when combined together, can produce an additive effect or, even worse, a synergistic effect. the additive and/or synergistic effect is felt by animals fed on this soybean and by citizens who eat products obtained from these animals. we should not venture into territory that science has not yet been able to explore. the precautionary principle must be applied to gm soybeans resistant to two herbicides.
in writing. i opposed the commission's proposal to authorise two new gmos. no gmo should be authorised until democratic control over authorisations is adequately strengthened so that the views of citizens and member states are taken into account. parliament has already asked the commission to submit a new legislative proposal in this respect. in addition, the import of these specific gmos could expose consumers and animals to adverse effects of the herbicides with which they have been treated. we cannot allow any herbicide-tolerant gmos to be authorized until their effects are absolutely clear.
in writing. the european parliament resolution calls on the european commission not to place on the market food and feed containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø8-9 × mon-89788-1) which is resistant not only to glyphosate but also to another herbicide, dicamba. the transgenic soybean has the characteristic of having been engineered in the laboratory to resist the action of glyphosate, a pesticide which has recently been classified by the iarc, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) in lyon, as "probably carcinogenic" to humans. in particular, this genetically modified soybean is also resistant to dicamba, a chlorine-based organic compound that is highly persistent in the environment once used and has a higher toxicity than glyphosate itself. further genetic modification was necessary as weeds were beginning to develop resistance to glyphosate. i have always fought for the exclusion of genetically modified food and feed from european territory and i will repeat this once again by voting in favour of this report, which i am proposing with my colleagues from the five star movement. i believe in a gmo-free europe that protects the health of the people and not the interests of biotechnology corporations.
in writing. ‒ the objection is based on the fact that transgenic soybeans are resistant to glyphosate, which was recently classified by the iarc of lyon as a probable human carcinogen, despite an ongoing debate between researchers at the who-affiliated institute and efsa. in the interests of the health of european citizens, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the resolution opposing the commission's proposal for an implementing decision (eu) on the placing on the market of food and feed products based on or containing glyphosate-resistant transgenic soya.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of genetically modified organisms resistant to herbicides can pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens and the environment. today i voted in favour of the objections to the authorisation of three types of genetically modified soya, including mon 87705 x mon 89788, because i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. as regards soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788, in particular, the concern is the presence of the protein cp4 epsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, a specialized agency of the who, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. in view of the potential health hazard, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up as soon as possible a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm-based feed in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon mon 87705 × mon 89788.
in writing. i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision on genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788 is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. i therefore believe that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. - i vote for it. since the adoption of directive (eu) 2015/412, which allows member states to prohibit the cultivation of authorised gmos within their territory, the commission, despite the continuing deadlock in the competent committee due to cross-checks, is unblocking all pending gmo authorisation procedures. therefore, the envi committee is systematically proposing objections to any newly authorized gmo. unfortunately, in these cases parliament's objections are not binding on the commission, since they are implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection concerning the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. in august 2011, monsanto europe sa submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean. this type of soy expresses a protein that gives tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides, a substance that the international agency for research on cancer has classified as possibly carcinogenic to humans. the draft commission implementing decision therefore does not appear to be in accordance with union law, failing to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, and the effective functioning of the internal market. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection to this draft implementing decision by asking the commission, as indicated in the motion for a resolution, to submit a new legislative proposal which takes account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level regarding the safety of gmos for health and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the resolution opposes the placing on the market of food and feed products based on genetically modified hybrid soybeans resistant to glyphosate and with increased oleic acid content. i have decided to support this resolution and to vote in favour. these are products classified as potentially carcinogenic and therefore pose a risk to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulations (ec) no 1829/2003 and (ec) no 396/2005 of the european parliament and of the council to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ coming from an agricultural land, i am well aware that the role of technology allows to avoid physical fatigue but is not usually a substitute for those procedures tried over the millennia and refined by practice, and that deliver us those agro-food excellence of which our italy is very rich. i therefore expressed my great perplexity at the fact that i voted against the authorization of this product (and therefore in favour of the objection).
in writing. the process of authorising gmos in europe is not democratic. in this case, as in all previous cases of authorisation, the commission acted unilaterally despite the fact that the proposal had not been adopted by the relevant technical committee. i therefore supported the objection to the authorisation of gm soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788, also because of the scientific doubts that gmos entail. the soybean concerned expresses the enzymes fad2 (fatty acid δ12-desaturase) and fatb (palmitoyl acp thioesterase), which results in a high oleic acid profile and a low linoleic acid profile, and expresses the protein cp4 epsps which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer the specialized agency of the world health organization classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution objecting to any new gmo authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 (mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1), because i believe that the european commission should come forward with a new comprehensive proposal on gmos and carefully assess their environmental and health impact. i think that the european parliament made it clear in its vote last october that it was opposed to the commission's proposal on gmos and called for appropriate safeguards and a new legislative proposal: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the introduction of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, high in oleic acid and low in linoleic acid and containing glyphosate-resistant proteins, poses environmental and health concerns and leads to increased use of those pesticides. i believe that these concerns should be adequately addressed by efsa and the european commission through impact assessments and require comprehensive, clear legislation that takes due account of the concerns of our citizens.
in writing. i voted against this objection. the genetically modified soybean mon-877ø5-6 × mon-89788-1 expresses the cp4 epsps protein and therefore confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides. the latter has been studied by the european food safety authority (efsa). on 12 november 2015, it published its conclusions, which were reached through the detailed studies carried out by the peer review panel. the latter concluded that glyphosate does not pose a threat to humans. in addition to the introduction of an acute reference dose (ard), the review proposed additional toxicological safety thresholds as guidance for risk assessors: the acceptable operator exposure level (aeol) was set at 0,1 mg/kg bw/day and the acceptable daily intake (adi) for consumers was set at 0,5 mg/kg bw/day, in line with the acute reference dose.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the objection under rule 106 'authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788'. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. i am against gmos and i am - if possible - even more against gmos which, like mon-87705-6 × mon-89788-1 soybean, express tolerance to herbicides, in this case the notorious glyphosate. crops engineered to resist glyphosate are particularly prevalent in the united states. their presence has led to increased use of glyphosate - without, however, increasing yields - and to the emergence of weeds which are themselves resistant to glyphosate: the massive use of glyphosate triggers a kind of accelerated darwinian selection (what else could we expect?) that causes farmers to use even more powerful herbicides. and so on, in a vicious cycle of poisons and poison resistance. i don't want to see any more "darwinian effects" of this chemical escalation on weeds. i would stress that the toxicity and carcinogenicity of glyphosate indicate the need for strict protection and prevention measures. it's obvious to expect glyphosate residues in crops engineered to resist it. all citizens have the right to access quality food products free of contaminants.
in writing. the european commission has tried for the umpteenth time to force its way of making decisions on agri-food and animal feed, bypassing any guidance from the european parliament. but the five star movement has managed to move in time and together with the majority of the european parliament has voted against giving consent to the placing on the market of this new genetically modified product. this soybean has been specially created in the laboratory to resist glyphosate, which is considered by the world health organization (who) and the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) to be a probable human carcinogen. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as a spokesman for m5s, i have always campaigned for the banning of gm food and feed. gmos must not enter europe, without "if" and without "but". unfortunately, the eu imports 32 million tonnes of soybeans each year for its own livestock feed. it is a duty to set ambitious targets when it comes to protecting the environment and the health of millions of citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the objection to the agreement on the new emission limits for euro 6 vehicles. but parliament did not accept it, and so lost another opportunity to be on the side of the people. after the volkswagen scandal and the ambitious paris agreement, the european parliament had an obligation to send a strong and clear message about the need to create the conditions for increasingly sustainable production now. we cannot accept higher emission limits than those voted in 2007, just as we cannot vote on the industry's demands and ignore the citizens' demands. we're here to work and protect their health first. our cities are besieged by smog and high concentrations of fine dust, ozone and nitrogen dioxide, which cause damage to the health of citizens and generate very high health costs, are proof of this.
in writing. ‒ health protection is a priority for the european union, but unfortunately the continuing pressure from the lobbies has pushed the commission to take big steps backwards. the draft regulation introduced, among other things, an overly high compliance factor, which resulted in a general derogation from the applicable emission limits. ambitious measures are needed to reduce emissions and it is certainly unacceptable to downsize the objectives and content of the previous regulation (ec) no 715/2007. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the committee on the environment, which opposes the amendments, because the protection of the environment and the protection of citizens cannot and must not be threatened by mere economic interests.
in writing. ‒ the transport sector generated 46% of nitrogen oxides (nox) emissions and around 14% of particulate matter emissions in the eu in 2013; these are two types of pollutants linked to adverse effects on health, the environment and the climate. the outbreak of the vw scandal led the european commission to take note of the discrepancy between the emission values obtained by laboratory tests and those obtained by road tests and to submit a proposal for a regulation to temporarily raise the permissible limits for nitrogen oxide emissions from passenger cars. i supported the objection of the committee on the environment, in the belief that the commission's proposal could constitute a general derogation capable of causing a huge impact on the emission of pollutants into the environment. despite the leadership of european industry - and within it italian industry - in the field of emission reduction technologies, i am convinced that there is still a long way to go. a shared effort is needed to ensure that environmental protection and the protection of public health are reconciled with the needs of industry and the protection of jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this objection under article 106 of the regulation on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles because i believe that in the light of the volkswagen dieselgate scandal and the commitments made in the cop 21 negotiations, it is counterproductive and wrong to increase the emission limits for these vehicles. i am therefore extremely disappointed that the objection was rejected by a small majority.
in writing. ‒ higher emission limits than those voted in 2007 (168 mg/km from 2019, 120 mg/km from 2021 for nitrogen oxides, which then generate fine particulate matter, instead of 80 mg/km) cannot be accepted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the protection of the health of citizens must be a priority for all the european institutions. if the european union were to give in to the pressures of the car lobby, it would yield both in terms of public health protection and competition: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the community's own resources but also of the community's own resources. that is why i am voting in favour of the objection.
in writing. - i vote against. the measure contains a roadmap which will lead to the rapid elimination of the gaps in existing legislation which currently allow for large excesses of the emission limits set. at the same time, it meets, at least in part, the needs of industry. the objection was adopted by the envi committee on the emotional shock caused by the volkswagen scandal, although this incident has no causal link with the measure objected to. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. ‒ the report opposes the european commission's proposal to amend its implementing regulation to regulation (ec) no 715/2007 laying down provisions for the type-approval of motor vehicles. the proposed amendment aims at a revision of the type-approval procedure and the introduction of conformity verification tests using portable meters from 2017. the oppositions are entirely acceptable: the proposed amendments not only exceed the delegation to the commission under article 5 of regulation (ec) no 715/2007, but also constitute a serious cheat to allow a generalised derogation from the emission limits applicable under regulation (ec) no 715/2007 in favour of the interests of car manufacturers. i therefore voted with great conviction in favour of the report which in effect asks the commission to withdraw its draft amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the measure because i do not agree with the correctness of the formal and substantive assumptions underlying the measure.
in writing. ‒ it is very important to clarify why i voted against this objection, and therefore in favour of this delegated act, especially since some political groups have demagogically speculated on this vote by showing that they have not read the papers. here 's the thing: do we want to measure vehicle emissions under real conditions or under simulated conditions? i prefer the former to the latter (which have been created so far specifically to test with rigged values), and so i appreciated the commission's willingness to adapt the limits to real conditions, revising them downwards in any case compared to what was happening in practice before. in other words, the vehicle that polluted x in the tests actually polluted y times x. now we have taken the real parameter (y times x) as a reference and lowered it in such a way as to improve the quality of the environment. it's a pity that many of my colleagues didn't understand that.
in writing. ‒ i felt i had to vote against this measure which would equate the data derived from tests on vehicles carried out in the laboratory with those under real road driving conditions. in fact, it was found that cars put on the market after laboratory tests did not meet the emission limits on the road, exceeding the limit by an average of 4/5 times. if the objection had been accepted, we would have been faced with a situation in which the cars currently on the road would have continued to emit emissions within the limits approved by the laboratory tests. therefore, the current objective is to get the commission to come forward quickly with a rde package to achieve a short, but sustainable and timely compliance factor of 1 (80 mg/kg) as soon as possible and no later than 2023, restoring consumer confidence, safeguarding air quality and enabling automotive companies to invest in more environmentally friendly technologies without having to cut jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection and against the revision of the emission indices that the commission intends to apply to the new test for testing cars entering the european market. i voted to defend to the last the right to health of our citizens. we have taken over the requests of associations and mayors, who have asked for our support in their daily struggle against the effects of fine dust and high levels of smog. the decision was far from unanimous and requires a rethinking of the commission's roadmap on such a sensitive subject. this is a subject that is of great interest to the public, particularly in the light of the recent scandals involving the falsification of car emissions data by well-known car manufacturers. a subject that requires the utmost attention as well as deep sensitivity. we therefore hope that a new proposal for regulation will be adopted as soon as possible, one which does not penalise the productive sectors but is respectful of the environment and the well-being of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft regulation goes in the opposite direction to the recent commitments made at cop21 in paris and to the principles set out by the commission in the 10 priorities of president juncker. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. that's nice, but today's events are a different story. the commission is trying to help the car manufacturers' lobby by invoking technical reasons relating to alleged measurement errors, which in fact allow vehicles to pollute more than twice as much as they do now. so instead of more stringent regulations actually limiting emissions, both eyes are closed (and the lungs are blocked), allowing even more harmful substances to be released into the environment. the motion for a resolution is in my favour because it leaves no room for doubt and asks the commission to withdraw its proposal immediately and to submit a new text consistent with its commitments to protect the environment and the health of the public.
in writing. first the postponement of the vote, then the closed meetings with the political groups and finally a last-minute document from the european commission: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work. in the wake of the vw scandal, the commission had put forward a proposal to the technical committee for motor vehicles (ctvm) to introduce a new method of measuring and monitoring nitrogen oxide emissions from passenger cars under real driving conditions by means of portable emission measurement systems (pems). although the european commission, based on scientific assessments by the joint research centre (jrc) in ispra, initially proposed a temporary co2 emission limit of 1.6 and a subsequent one of 1.2, the automotive lobby managed to get a vote on an unjustified co2 emission limit of 2.1 until 2020 and 1.5 for the following years, without time limit, effectively allowing cars to pollute more and legally. i therefore voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ as m5s we are strongly opposed to any method of calculating emissions that, instead of countering the action of those who would like to circumvent existing rules and limits, aims to achieve the opposite objective. we will not put the protection of the interests of the powerful lobbies of the european car manufacturers ahead of the promotion of research, innovation and technologies to reduce the production of pollutants. we refuse to believe that the protection of health and the environment can be a systematic detriment to employment and work. we believe that environmental ideas can be a great opportunity to create jobs, as is happening in the integrated management of the waste cycle and in the field of renewable energies. if the european union wants to reduce the pollutants in the air, it cannot continue to be enslaved by a logic that protects the profits and special interests of a few against the many.
in writing. ‒ i am against the objection because adoption of the objection would prevent the entry into force of new road tests with negative consequences on employment and environmental levels.
in writing. ‒ parliament today put its finger on the pulse of the environment by reducing the emissions that cars will produce, with a review process that will start at the beginning of 2017 and will be monitored annually. if the proposed stop had been adopted, we would have been faced with a situation in which motor vehicles would have continued to pollute, with values far in excess of those voted for in this text. we must defend air quality, but we must also boost european growth. instead of a legislative vacuum, waiting for a new proposal and a new process (which would have taken between 1 and 2 years), our companies will now have a certain framework, which will allow investment in technologies that are more environmentally friendly and the protection of hundreds of thousands of jobs, which are our priority, together with the fight against pollution levels.
in writing. following the introduction of new vehicle type-approval tests, in which exhaust gas emissions are measured in road driving rather than in the laboratory, technical changes were necessary to convert the values when switching from one measurement mode to another. the result of our vote is an environmental result because it actually reduces the emissions that the machines will produce, with a review process that will start at the beginning of 2017 and will have an annual monitoring. cars on the road today emit about 360 milligrams per kilometer. this means that manufacturers will have to put cars on the market that emit 168 mg/km from 2017, and 80 mg/km by 2023. today we must defend air quality, but we must also boost european growth. instead of a legislative vacuum, waiting for a new proposal and a new process (which would have taken between 1 and 2 years), our companies will have a certain framework, which will allow investment in technologies that are more environmentally friendly and the protection of hundreds of thousands of jobs, and we will protect our citizens by significantly improving the quality of the air we breathe.
in writing. ‒ the objection under article 106 of the regulation on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro6) does not meet my vote in favour. the vote is to support the clear importance of being able to provide a certain framework of rules, thus enabling producers to make a timely investment which can actually lead to a reduction in emissions. this is another key point which justifies the vote, since this will lead to a real progressive reduction in vehicle emissions. finally, it should be stressed that the parameters to be respected must be those of real road tests and not laboratory tests which are not faithful to actual vehicle use situations and therefore not useful for the purpose of effective information.
in writing. ‒ given the seriousness of air pollution, which causes 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year and costs public coffers 940 billion euro, i welcome the objection to the european commission's proposal. the measures mentioned appear inadequate for the effective protection of public health and too weak to send a signal to industry and to guide investment in environmental innovation. the political response to the measurement scandal is also likely to appear weak. in view of our commitment to the inclusion of strict environmental clauses and the promotion of european environmental standards in international trade agreements, we cannot in any way approve a proposal which could potentially weaken the position of the european negotiators in the various trade initiatives and, in particular, in the negotiations with the american counterpart. the commission proposal also appears to be inconsistent and hardly compatible with the ambitious goals set by the paris agreement on climate change. a european diplomatic victory that confirmed the union's role as the main supporter of the fight against global warming. the european union has been able to demonstrate the parallel between growth and environmental protection. we therefore ask the commission to draw up a new proposal that is commensurate with the historic european achievement.
in writing. ‒ a number of criticisms have been raised about the potential harm caused by nitrogen oxides (nox). in order to eliminate these critical points, the text entrusts the commission with a continuous monitoring task; it is therefore foreseen that if the proposed proportions are no longer considered adequate, a revision will be made. i do not think it is appropriate to support the objection and therefore i am voting against the measures adopted by the regulation on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6).
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal for a regulation on emission limits for passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6) would not only change but also completely overturn the rules established so far. the proposed increase in the maximum emission values for nitrogen oxides is technically unjustifiable and politically unacceptable, because it is contrary to the programme of the european strategy for cleaner air and because the commission, with its proposal, is trying to appropriate powers that are not its own, as clearly established by article 5 (3) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007. it is understandable that the new real driving emissions (rde) test procedure, based on the portable emissions monitoring system (pems), requires an update to take into account the margin of error of the pems systems. the commission proposal, however, goes too far, unjustifiably raising the ceilings, de facto and forever. i therefore voted against this increase proposed by the commission because it is in complete contradiction with the environmental policies that europe has been trying to pursue for years, not forgetting the very high cost of human lives which, according to recent studies on air pollution, is attributed to nox emissions.
in writing. ‒ the second rde package (real drive emissions real road emissions), proposed by the european commission and approved on 28 october 2015 by the technical committee for vehicles, aims to establish a number of quantitative criteria, including the so-called compliance factor, in order to equalise the data from tests on vehicles carried out in the laboratory with those under real road driving conditions and to limit vehicle emissions (euro 6). this technical need arises from the introduction of the new tests, where exhaust emissions are measured in road driving, and does not change the legislative type-approval limit imposed by regulation (ec) no 715/2007, which remains, in the case of nox, 80 mg/km for the euro 6 stage. if this objection had been accepted, we would have been faced with a situation in which the cars currently on the roads in our cities and regions would have continued to emit emissions within the limits approved by laboratory tests, which in real terms, that is to say, in road driving conditions, can be higher by about 400-500%. that is why i voted against its approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to reward the result achieved after a long and difficult mediation process, where all the interlocutors took a step towards compromise. parliament thus succeeded in not rejecting the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the transposition of vehicle emission tests from the laboratory to the road, which would have blocked work for another two years. the tests shall be true and adapted to real driving conditions. it is therefore unthinkable that they should produce the same results and that emissions should have the same limits. that is why we must give industry time to improve its technology without imposing unattainable limits. the latest ec proposal introduces a stricter stepwise review of conformity factors, so as to encourage car manufacturers to constantly improve, and establishes more transparent and independent control systems.
in writing. ‒ with the introduction of new real driving conditions (rde) tests, vehicle emissions on the road will be as consistent as possible with those recorded so far during laboratory tests, with the aim of ensuring stricter enforcement of existing regulations and curbing the dangerous increase in pollutant and particulate emissions. it is therefore of paramount importance that the legislative process on ecn tests is not delayed or even halted. for this reason, i voted against the motion for an objection which would have prevented the new procedure from coming into force by causing delays in the implementation of the emission control measures and in fact achieving the opposite of the desired result in terms of improving air quality in the european union.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that the majority was not achieved by a narrow margin, i voted in favour of the resolution recommending that the european parliament veto the commission's draft delegated act establishing the procedure for real driving emissions (rde) tests for motor vehicles. the text was therefore unfortunately rejected, allowing the temporary increase of the limits on emissions from vehicles in real driving conditions. the european commission considers that the measure is justified by the need to address the technical concerns regarding the use of the new portable emission measurement devices as well as the technical limitations for improving the real driving performance of emission detection for currently produced diesel vehicles. however, in the face of the increase in air pollution and the resulting respiratory diseases, i consider it a mistake and a lack of respect for citizens to fail to meet commitments to protect the environment and human health. today's vote shows that a large part of parliament wants the commitments to be respected and will continue to follow closely future developments on emissions testing and the responses given by the commission and parliament.
in writing. ‒ we in m5s voted in favour of the resolution which favoured the weakening of emission limits, thus vetoing the measures to double emissions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. previously, euro 6 cars could emit nitrogen oxides (nox) up to a limit of 80 mg/km. now, thanks to the commission's document, euro 6 cars will be able to emit 168 mg/km of nox until 2020 and still comply with the rules. the car lobbies have managed to win this battle by making parliament believe that if the rejection were to pass, it would mean the end of the car companies and thus the loss of many jobs. it 's obviously a scam . cars exported to the us meet limits half as high as those in the eu. that's because these are the same limits that were introduced in 2007 to give carmakers time to comply. it is clear that the multinationals wanted to circumvent the rules, rather than invest in innovation to reduce emissions.
in writing. with the introduction of new exhaust gas measuring instruments, almost all vehicles would be at risk of being outlawed. the member states have dealt with this problem by introducing amendments which bring the emission limits into line with those traditionally measured from the exhaust pipe. lower limits would have been irreparable economic damage to the lobby of the car manufacturers. the resolution recommended that the european parliament veto the european commission's proposal to introduce new procedures for the approval and monitoring of road emissions by means of portable detectors from 2017. this would have allowed the car industry to adjust to the parameters in a reasonable period of time. in the meantime, cars would be free to pollute twice as much as today's limits. but who can guarantee that more restrictive measures will be adopted in a year's time? i voted in favour of the resolution because the technology to reduce pollution already exists and has been on the car market for some time. the commission has not yet taken any decision on the matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i and my whole group voted against this resolution for a fundamental reason. what is being done through tisa is the marketization, the transformation into profit, of what are basic public services like education and health care. we believe that the issue of the commons, of the co-management of the commons, of democratic management of the commons, must be at the heart of europe's future. we believe that the whole of the treaties - ttip, tisa, ceta - is leading to a process of deregulation, to the expropriation of the sovereignty of citizens who are not informed and who are progressively deprived of the opportunity to decide on their future. we voted against ttip, we voted against tisa and we are asking for the voices of millions of citizens who have already expressed their opposition to be heard.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the services treaty, the tisa, is a bomb that must be defused. so far, thanks to wikileaks, we've only seen a few of the classified documents, but what we've seen already paints the end of public health and the disappearance of net neutrality and many other nasty surprises. we therefore could not remain indifferent and worked hard on the text we voted on today. it's important to understand one thing: the signature of the tisa is far away and today the 5 star movement did not say yes to tisa, but it said yes to a certain kind of mandate for the tisa negotiators. a mandate that says loud and clear that public services are not to be touched, that there must be no irreversible privatizations and that citizens' rights come before free trade. the text is a compromise and it is certainly not perfect, but it is important not to leave the negotiators with a blank cheque, because we would only be playing into the hands of the lobbies and the big powers. we will follow the negotiations closely and be vigilant because no treaty comes before the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the tisa represents an opportunity to consolidate europe's position as the world's largest exporter of services, since the latter employ 70% of the european union's workforce and account for 40% of the value of goods exported from europe. the agreement could stimulate job creation in the european union by facilitating the internationalisation of smes by removing the non-tariff barriers which still affect the sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the tfaa and its implementation in the context of the implementation of the tfaa. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the wto rules are applied in a uniform manner. finally, i believe it is essential that the outcome of the negotiations, in addition to realising the untapped potential of a more globally integrated services market, is capable of avoiding social, environmental and economic dumping and of ensuring full respect for the acquis of the european union.
in writing. - we in the 5 star movement are strongly opposed to the tisa. that said, it is important to note that m5s did not say yes to tisa, but it did say yes to a certain kind of mandate for tisa negotiators. in particular, the amendments adopted make it clear that essential public services, which guarantee the fundamental rights of european citizens, such as health, the environment, education and cultural services, are inviolable. the european commission will be obliged to negotiate with other countries in a transparent manner and through positive lists, i.e. by publicly stating which services to liberalize. there will also be no irreversible privatisations. the text thus approved makes it difficult to approve it in the future. i voted in favour of this because i think it is extremely dangerous to leave the negotiators with a blank cheque.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the reding report on the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). the agreement, currently being negotiated in geneva, involves 23 wto countries plus the eu, covering 70% of the world's services sector. this is a fundamental process because the union is the world's largest importer and exporter of services and has a particular interest in the establishment of a sound international framework for international trade in services. i think that the report before parliament effectively underlines the need to ensure greater reciprocity in market access, to ensure a level playing field at global level and to offer concrete benefits to consumers. the future multilateralisation of the treaty will therefore have to be facilitated while keeping public and cultural services, the right to regulate, fundamental rights to data confidentiality and those related to working conditions out of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i believe that tisa, the negotiation on trade in services, could seriously damage the european production system, causing a loss of regulatory autonomy by the member states and the eu, as well as unlimited and unfettered liberalisation and privatisation of services, with unacceptable consequences for consumers and workers. that is why i did not vote for the text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the trade in services agreement (tisa) represents an important growth opportunity for the european economy and that the eu must exploit this opportunity to achieve reciprocal conditions favourable to european businesses.
in writing. - i vote against. the tisa is a draft agreement currently being negotiated between 23 parties in the wto. in my view, the inta resolution is negative. it is a text which, while containing positive references to the risks arising from these negotiations, nevertheless maintains a favourable attitude towards a possible agreement. the lega nord will therefore have to confirm in plenary the negative vote expressed in the parliamentary committee. tisa is together with ttip (usa) and ceta (canada) one of the big files which, in terms of international trade, could cause enormous damage to our production system in the coming years. i think, however, that a multilateral agreement on a sensitive subject such as services is a risk that is not worth taking. many of the issues that are also known for ttip come into play: the eu's own legislation is not yet fully in place, and the member states (and the eu itself) would lose regulatory autonomy, and an indiscriminate process of liberalisation and privatisation (and especially not managed by national and regional parliaments) could cause serious risks for both consumers and workers themselves.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. if the european commission negotiates agreements on behalf of the eu under wto rules, the european parliament must be fully informed at all stages of the procedure and has the final say. the m5s delegation voted in favour of the reding report because clear and unequivocal recommendations to the european commission must be made. we have not voted for tisa today - we are still halfway through the procedure - but for a clear mandate to the european commission, which aims, among other things, to protect the interests of citizens and to avoid the dismantling of public services.
in writing. ‒ services are a key sector of the union's economy. europe is the world's largest exporter of services, with 25% of the global market. however, there are still many barriers, especially non-tariff barriers, which slow down the internationalisation of smes and prevent them from accessing new markets. since 1995, with the spread of the internet, the economy has changed and services continue to gain increasing importance in international economies; this is one more reason to regulate and ensure greater reciprocity in access to markets, ensuring global equality and fairness in working conditions. the tisa will have to lead to an ambitious level of opening up of the services market to smes. however, parliament rightly calls for public and cultural services and the fundamental right to data privacy to be excluded. today's vote, which i fully support, is not a judgment on the agreement or on the signing of the agreement itself but on the set of clear recommendations which the european parliament has made and which the commission will have to take into account in the negotiation phase. respect for working conditions and the environment is among the main criteria which will guide the definition of the tisa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe in the importance of the decisive role of the parliament in the eu's trade policy. the rapporteur intends to assess the first two and a half years and 13 rounds of negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa) and to make clear and sound recommendations to the commission. the negotiations on tisa are aimed at ensuring greater reciprocity in market access, ensuring a global level playing field, delivering tangible benefits to consumers and allowing stakeholders to have access to the talks. however, public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data privacy and fair working conditions, as well as the right to regulate, are non-negotiable and should be unequivocally excluded from the scope of the agreement. the european parliament must work constructively and pragmatically to give a positive image to the tisa negotiations in order to ensure that a good agreement is reached, in the interests of both european businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of harmonising trading conditions, especially when this can bring benefits for consumers and businesses in my country. in this case, i think italy has an advantage in facilitating the exchange of services, because, for example, with the reciprocity rule in procurement, the skill of our companies can more easily triumph over the mediocrity of others, while consumers are more protected, for example, thanks to the greater rules on electronic commerce. i sincerely hope that the other wto countries which have not yet signed this agreement will do so soon.
in writing. ‒ the tisa agreement is of particular importance in the current eu strategy, which is proving to be a skilled negotiator of trade agreements at several tables at the same time. this agreement is a development of trips, in that it deals with the liberalization of services, with the aim of improving trade in this sector at multilateral level in order to implement the level of trade. the designated partners were selected by the commission on the basis of the criterion of maximum benefit from this agreement by all the actors involved. i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which contains recommendations to the commission so that the negotiations can make further positive progress.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to assess the first two and a half years and 13 rounds of negotiations on trade in services (tisa) and to make clear and precise recommendations to the european commission. the tisa negotiations are to ensure greater reciprocity in access to services markets (telecommunications, transport, financial services, energy), create a level playing field globally (including in the procurement market), provide tangible benefits for consumers and ensure the future multilateralisation of the agreement. the report is not perfect but it says loud and clear that public services are not to be touched, that there must be no irreversible privatisations and that citizens' rights come before free trade. it is necessary to negotiate services through positive lists (i.e. by stating which services will be liberalised) and to give local authorities the freedom to decide in the future to suspend liberalisation in certain areas. the signing of the tisa is a long way off and today m5s didn't say yes to tisa, they said yes to a certain kind of mandate for tisa negotiators. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ trade in services is a driver of employment and growth in the eu and i see the multilateral agreement on trade in services that the commission is negotiating as an opportunity to update existing rules dating back to 1995 and to close the regulatory gaps that are currently being used to the detriment of workers and citizens. the adoption of the european parliament resolution gives the commission a clear mandate to negotiate an agreement that consolidates the eu's position as the largest exporter of services while favouring european businesses, ensuring greater rights and lower prices for european consumers, more jobs and greater protection for workers and promoting sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has sought to set clear boundaries for the negotiators involved in negotiating tisa, a new agreement which, according to a study published on the parliament's own website, should be 'a more effective vehicle for wider liberalisation'. tisa is even described as more liberalising than ttip. but we know that behind the word 'liberalisation' there are privatisations which generally coincide with a real assault on public assets and excellences. the liberalization of services through the tisa can conceal pitfalls and dangers for citizens, for employment, for health. just think about what happened with the creation of multi-utilities in the early 2000s in italy: the private sector has gobbled up the public and chased profits for its own sake, with the result that the quality of services provided has declined and prices and tariffs have soared. the vote on the report is therefore a vote to keep the negotiators on the straight and narrow, to set clear limits on their action, to safeguard public services and to consider possible steps backwards in privatisation. in other words, it is a vote necessary to protect the citizens.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the transatlantic trade and investment treaty with the usa, the european parliament today made clear recommendations to the commission on the ongoing negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). the report states in clear terms that the aim of tisa must be to regulate international trade in services, taking due account of the effects of the digital revolution on this sector, with particular attention to the implications for consumers and workers. we therefore wanted the report to express clearly our 'no' to an agreement without safeguards, but at the same time to recognise that without clear and effective regulation there can be no protection for citizens. we also want this treaty, whose negotiations are proceeding between 23 countries, to be concluded in full compliance with and consistent with the rules established at multilateral level, so that in the future it may include as many states as possible: it is in multilateral fora such as the wto that we can reach ambitious agreements that have the merit of leading to ever more fair trade and equal rules for all. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for the agreement on trade in services.
in writing. ‒ in a fragmented and discontinuous process of globalisation, the european union needs to have a long-term vision not only of the international markets in which it is a key player, but also of the social and political scenarios that are interconnected. today, the value chain has taken on a global scale and has allowed for a significant reduction in costs for many european companies, but the data show that only a part of the heterogeneous european business landscape has managed to overcome this global challenge, there are numerous cases instead of companies that have failed to relocate in a way that is advantageous to these new scenarios. the european union should have an appropriate set of measures to meet the challenge of these negotiations with a positive contribution for europe as a whole. it is also important to remember the price of these negotiations in terms of the bargaining and often denial of rights both within the eu and in companies outside its borders that make up its value chain. parliament must be a pragmatic voice for all social, environmental and political actors if europe as a whole and its diversity is to meet this challenge.
in writing. the tisa treaty aims at deregulation and market sharing in favour of large companies and multinationals. the conclusion of the agreement would lead to the liberalisation of some 90% of the services market, such as banking and finance, the labour market, health, education, scientific research, postal services, air and sea transport, waste collection, construction and telecommunications. the deal could have a huge impact on essential services. with this report, although it is not perfect, the european parliament has placed stringent conditions on the treaty. it has made it clear that public services are not to be touched, that there must be no irreversible privatisation and that citizens' rights come before free trade. it is necessary to negotiate services through positive lists (i.e. by stating which services will be liberalised) and to give local authorities the freedom to decide to suspend liberalisation in certain areas. the signing of the tisa is a long way off and today m5s didn't say yes to tisa, they said yes to a certain kind of mandate for tisa negotiators. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is very important that the european parliament keeps a close eye on what is happening in the negotiations on trade in services (tisa), currently under way in geneva. we have always denounced the risks behind these negotiations, which are no less dangerous than ttip. we cannot give in to certain fundamental principles for the protection of the citizens and the european production system: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we share the recommendations made by the european parliament, and in particular the recognition of the right of the member states and local authorities to regulate whether or not their services are open. we also believe that the negotiations should be regulated by means of positive lists, that is to say by clearly stating which services will be liberalized. finally, it is of the utmost importance that local authorities are free to decide to suspend certain liberalizations in order to cope with possible economic circumstances or national strategic choices. for these reasons, and in appreciation of the balanced content of the resolution, i declare that i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this agreement because it could cause enormous damage to our production system in the coming years, and also deprive the member states of their regulatory autonomy.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement on trade in services, currently under negotiation between 23 more developed countries and known by the acronym 'tisa', could provide a great opportunity for european companies to provide services, especially in transport and telecommunications. like the free trade agreement with the united states (ttip), i believe that it is essential to take the public interest as a reference point also in order to avoid exploitation and false fears. in europe we have cutting-edge labour laws and environmental and plant health standards, and it is right not to dilute them for commercial reasons. however, it is equally important that opportunities for economic growth and business development are not penalized by false pretenses or unfounded fears.
in writing. i believe that promoting the liberalisation of trade in services through an update of the rules of the existing directive is not only a necessary action but an absolutely urgent and priority objective of the european agenda. i therefore believe that the proposal to approve tisa, which involves 23 countries and represents some 70% of world trade in services, should be supported and promoted. the key issues are the opening up of our market to the future, the strengthening of european leadership in this sector, a strong impetus to growth, new job opportunities and wider and easier access to foreign markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on recommendations to the european commission, which is negotiating on behalf of the eu the trade in services liberalisation agreements (tisa) under way in geneva concerning a plurilateral agreement involving 50 members of the world trade organisation (wto), because i believe that the eu is today one of the most important exporters and importers of services at the same time. i therefore support the need to update and improve the existing rules on services in international trade, as they have a major impact on employment. i fully share the group's view that there is a need for rules adapted to changing realities; i therefore trust the ec's commitment to conduct these negotiations in good faith, taking into account the recommendations made to it and the fact that the ep will not accept any agreement. i fully supported the need to exclude public services and audiovisual services from the agreement, the need to go beyond the gats rules as regards financial services and the inclusion of the revision clause. the text voted on today must be seen as an instrument to influence the ec, and it cannot in any way be considered the final position of the ep or the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). these services are becoming increasingly important to the world economy and are a central element of the economy of each eu country. the tsa is a tool for opening up markets and providing an internal safety net for citizens, capable of creating a proper and effective international regulation. furthermore, given that the european union is the world's leading exporter of services, a sector that accounts for tens of millions of jobs across europe, tisa could be a great tool to strengthen areas such as employment and growth in the eu, through a trade policy that ensures the highest level of transparency, commitment and accountability.
in writing. ‒ we need to ensure that our companies are competitive at the right level in an increasingly globalised economy. given that we are one of the largest exporters of services in the world, the tisa treaty will bring additional benefits. we must achieve these objectives by remaining firm on the protection of privacy and the right of member states to their sovereignty. i voted for this proposal because i am convinced that europe can grow further with tisa.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of services as an offensive interest for the european union, we welcome the reding report with great support. services are the backbone of the european economy in terms of both gross domestic product and employment. the european union, with a trade deficit of eur 173.2 billion in 2013, is the world leader in the services market. despite the considerable degree of liberalisation of the internal market, barriers to international trade for european companies remain. we therefore support the call for greater trade reciprocity. the negotiations will also have to regulate trade in digital services, while ensuring maximum compliance with the gats provisions, which is essential for the desired multilateralisation of the agreement. we hope that the agreement will provide global actors with a common framework of rules and values, particularly in the areas of labour, privacy and consumer protection. thanks to the great work of the shadow rapporteur, we were finally able to outline our most important indications and concerns in the report, thus sending a strong message to the negotiators. in particular, the negotiations will have to ensure maximum transparency, safeguard the right to regulation, protect the stability and integrity of the financial sector and exclude all public services.
in writing. ‒ the tisa negotiations are aimed at ensuring greater reciprocity in market access, ensuring a global level playing field, delivering tangible benefits to consumers and allowing stakeholders to have access to the talks. however, public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data privacy and fair working conditions, as well as the right to regulate, are non-negotiable and should be unequivocally excluded from the scope of the agreement. i voted in favour of the report because i believe in the importance of the decisive role of parliament in the context of eu trade policy.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that trade in services is a major driver of employment and growth and i firmly believe that the tsa represents an opportunity to consolidate the eu's position as the world's largest exporter of services, as improving access to foreign markets and promoting best practice will certainly help eu businesses to flourish in the era of globalisation. i regard the tisa negotiations as a first step towards overcoming the deadlock in doha in order to relaunch the negotiations on services in the context of gats and therefore, in the light of the european parliament's leading role in trade policy, i feel i approve of the work done so far and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the agreement on trade in services (tisa), because it contains all the elements which parliament considers essential for the final approval of the treaty. the negotiations will have to offer tangible benefits to both businesses and consumers, by ensuring greater reciprocity in market access, a level playing field at global level and involving all the parties concerned, so as to facilitate the future multilateralisation of the agreement. at the same time, it is made unequivocally clear that public and cultural services and the fundamental rights of data privacy and fair working conditions are not negotiable for parliament. an update of the existing rules is urgent and indispensable, given the positive impact it would have on employment. in the area of trade in services, europe has a competitive advantage which, with the removal of international barriers, would lead to a new expansion, increasing a surplus which, in 2013 alone, already amounted to eur 173.2 billion. the recommendations ensure that this objective is achieved without sacrificing any fundamental rights, thus ensuring broad support for the text, both in parliament and among citizens.
in writing. ‒ tisa is being negotiated by 23 wto members, including the european union, who want to further liberalise trade in services between them. the ongoing tisa negotiations will have to provide greater opportunities for european companies to provide services such as transport and telecommunications in other countries, but will have to ensure that the agreement does not prevent the authorities of the european union and the member states from legislating in the public interest, in particular on employment and data protection. i voted in favour and i hope that the european parliament will work constructively and pragmatically to ensure that a good agreement is reached, in the interests of both european businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ today's vote is just another step in a process that started in 2013 and which gives the european parliament's opinion to the european commission so that it can continue negotiations in the most profitable way possible. i voted in favour because it is vital for the european union to be a major player in international trade. not only that, our job is to work towards common rules so that our companies can compete globally with clear and equal rules for all and our citizens-consumers can benefit more from a wider market but with their safety safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i consider tisa potentially very harmful to the european production system, as well as to the rights of citizens and consumers. the text also goes in the direction of a further dangerous erosion of the national sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the trade in services agreement (tisa) is an agreement currently being negotiated between 23 members of the world trade organisation, including the european union and its 28 member states. i voted in favour of the report because it sets out the european parliament's priorities for the continuation of the tisa negotiations, the aim of which is to liberalize trade in services. i would remind you that the eu is the world's largest importer and exporter of services, and 70% of its workforce is employed in the service sector. however, the barriers to entry for european service providers, when translated into corresponding figures, are 15% in canada, 25% in south korea, 44% in turkey and 68% in china, while in the eu the rate corresponding to the restrictions for the provision of services for foreign operators is only 6%. the european union therefore has a particular interest in the creation of a sound regulatory base that guarantees greater reciprocity in market access, ensures a level playing field at global level and offers concrete benefits to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution containing the european parliament's recommendations for the negotiation of the trade in services agreement (tisa), a multilateral trade agreement currently being negotiated between 23 wto members, including the european union. the global rules on the exchange of services are set out in the gats, an agreement signed in 1995 which appears to be obsolete today because of the emergence of online services that did not exist or were not available 20 years ago. the aim of tisa is precisely to update the gats rules in order to continue to facilitate the exchange of services at multilateral level, considering the deadlock in the wto from this point of view. as the socialist group, we have been able to identify a number of precise points for the negotiations on the agreement, such as the complete exclusion of public services from the negotiating mandate, the safeguarding of social and workers' rights, the affirmation of the full right of the states to regulate and legislate in the public interest, greater transparency and involvement of parliament in the negotiating process. the commission should therefore negotiate the agreement in accordance with these guidelines, to avoid parliament opposing the final text of a treaty which does not protect our standards.
in writing. ‒ i am not in favour of the tisa treaty but i voted in favour of these recommendations because they draw important red lines which the european commission will not have to cross during the negotiations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this text is far from perfect. i support him insofar as he does not give the negotiators and the lobbies of the big business any free hand. it's a first step just a first step in the right direction: i will also work with all my strength to ensure that the eu and its citizens do not fall into the trap of the international treaties tisa and ttip, which are added to a third treaty, the tpp for the pacific rim countries, and in synergy with the latter form an economic pincer against the usa. it would be reductive to call the tisa a 'free trade agreement'. rather, it (just like ttip and tpp), if it is ever approved, will form part of the web of rules that aims to reshape the layout of the richest part of the world economy. a web woven in the interests of business interests and at the expense of citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is crucial that the ongoing negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa) conclude with an agreement that facilitates access for eu businesses to international markets, but it is necessary to ensure that public services, which are crucial to our economies, are not included in the terms of the negotiation. this vote by the european parliament is not a vote for or against the agreement: we need a clear mandate to define the limits, the red lines that will enable us to protect and defend consumers and to respond to the challenges of globalisation and digitalisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is important to curb restrictive practices by third countries against european companies, such as the forced localisation of data or restrictions on the presence of foreign capital. finally, less bureaucratic procedures are needed for smes, which lack the human and financial resources to navigate the complex rules of international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains the european parliament's recommendations to the commission for the negotiation of the tisa agreement, an agreement which aims to update the existing rules on trade in services, which have been blocked in the wto. the tisa agreement is an important opportunity to regulate globalisation, but we have also expressed some concerns, such as the risks to public services or the lowering of the level of protection of workers' rights. the rules underlying international trade clearly need updating, but not at any cost. the commission will have to take account of these recommendations to ensure a favourable vote by parliament.
in writing. ‒ tisa could have a very serious impact on citizens, as its consequences could affect basic services such as health, utilities, education and transport, all in the context of liberalisation driven by pressure from multinationals and lobbyists. the report we have voted on today, however, is limited to an assessment of the first negotiations and to making clear and precise recommendations to the commission. in voting in favour, i did not give my consent to the agreement, but to the type of negotiating mandate. it must ensure greater reciprocity in access to services markets, create a level playing field, offer tangible benefits to consumers and ensure future multilateralisation. public and cultural services, the fundamental rights to data confidentiality and privacy, and fair working conditions must not be negotiable, but categorically excluded from the scope of the agreement. the main objective must be to give a negotiating mandate that does not affect public services, that opposes irreversible privatizations and that puts citizens' rights before free trade. the text is certainly not perfect, but it must serve to prevent the negotiators from being given a free hand, which could play into the hands of the lobbies and the big powers.
in writing. the report aims to assess the progress of this first phase of the trade in services treaty (tisa) negotiations and to make clear recommendations to the european commission. the final text of the agreement will have to ensure greater reciprocity in terms of access to services markets (in the telecommunications, transport, financial services and energy sectors), creating a level playing field at global level (including the procurement market) and at the same time offering tangible benefits to consumers. after the first of 13 rounds of negotiations lasting two and a half years, thanks to the five star movement, the european commission will no longer have a blank cheque, because the recommendations adopted by parliament contain fundamental principles for the protection of public services which can no longer be ignored. services related to culture, data privacy rights and fair working conditions must strictly be excluded from the scope of the agreement, because i consider them non-negotiable. i believe that local consumers and service providers must be protected by appropriate regulation, so that they can make the most of all the opportunities at european level. that is why i am voting in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my group and i have personally supported this resolution, recalling what this parliament had also called for earlier. on 9 june 2015, we made a clear statement and called for a new strategy for gender equality post 2015. i believe that we as a european parliament must move towards an ever greater implementation of gender policies, including by permeating all aspects of human rights policies. i say this because this parliament is working very hard on the human rights issue. i believe that if we can permeate the perspective of women's rights and self-determination into all our policies on the human rights knot, we will probably start to move in the right direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy for equality between men and women expired in 2015 and all that the commission produced for 2016 is basically a working document on gender equality for 2016-2019. now, anyone who wishes to think badly may say that behind the issuing of such a weak act, even less effective than a communication, there is the specific political will of the commission not to deal with equality between men and women. it would be very serious, given the proven inequality and the difficulties that women face every day as professionals and as working mothers. but there are still many points to be tackled, many barriers to be overcome. this is not ideology, this is real life: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the european union. i believe that it is a civilization goal, like gender equality, that deserves more effort than a working document. i am sure that the commission will do its best from now on and i hope so.
in writing. ‒ ensuring gender equality has been one of the key objectives of european policies in recent years. the european strategy 2010-2015 focused on a few key points, such as the right to equal pay, equal access to managerial positions and the fight against all forms of violence and discrimination. however, the achievement of effective and real equality is still a long way off and will undoubtedly require further efforts. the new strategy for gender equality and women's rights for the post-2015 period certainly improves on the previous formula, while maintaining a still too general and weak approach to the issue. that is why i have decided to abstain, in the hope that clearer policies will be put in place to achieve effective equality between women and men and to put an end to the gender gap.
in writing. ‒ the charter of fundamental rights defines gender equality as a core value of the union, promoted through a series of important initiatives to protect women's rights. however, the poor results achieved by the commission's strategy between 2010 and 2015 call for a new initiative to address the obstacles to the full achievement of the objectives already identified. i supported the resolution for a new strategy on gender equality because i believe that it is necessary to call for an eu summit on the issue to identify progress and renew commitments in the framework of the epsco council scheduled for next march.
in writing. ‒ while there are some points which are shared, they have been developed in an excessively generic way and therefore this report does not contain any new or concrete proposals. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a core principle of the european union, a value recognised by the treaties and necessary in order to achieve the objectives of social inclusion, growth and employment which are central to the europe 2020 strategy. the european commission's commitment in this area is encouraging, but it has not proved to be sufficiently broad to achieve the objectives envisaged. the commission also took some steps forward in 2015, thanks to pressure from the european parliament, with the development of a new roadmap on work-life balance in the union and a working document presented in december, but lacking precise benchmarks and a clear budget, without which it is difficult to estimate the possible developments and the effectiveness of the policies adopted. i therefore support the resolution, calling on the commission to give new impetus to the issue and to take more concrete and ambitious measures from 2016.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that gender equality and women's rights should be a priority for the european union and its institutions and that the commission should therefore make greater efforts to design and implement a new and more effective strategy for gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015.
in writing. ‒ equality and the fight against discrimination, especially against women, have always been recognised as priorities by the european union, which has promoted the adoption of strategies to protect women's rights over the years. sexual discrimination, despite the commitment and efforts to recognise and affirm women's rights, continues to be present in european societies today and gender-related disparities have direct consequences on economic and social cohesion, sustainable growth and competitiveness, as well as on demographic challenges. europe, as a civilization of progress, must be able to translate its principles and values into reality. the european union must therefore now work to remove obstacles, both cultural and material, by adopting a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights after 2015.
in writing. - i vote against. very general, the usual rhetoric, nothing new. i recommend a vote against. notes that the commission's work programme for 2016, published in november 2015, does not contain any specific reference to the eu gender equality strategy post-2015; calls for the immediate adoption of a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights 2016-2020 to address gender equality issues in relation to violence against women, working hours, decision-making, health, education, media and external relations;
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the european commission to produce a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights in 2015 as a matter of urgency. the commission notes that the commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. although i think the text of the resolution is certainly acceptable, i decided to abstain because i think it is too general and too narrow in its demands to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i do not agree with the formal and substantive assumptions underlying the measure.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. a little reluctantly, i must admit, because i appreciated the efforts made by the negotiating team as a whole. however, because of the extremism of certain political groups, i had to reject the whole text when there was a lot that could have been done. we're talking about a topic that, especially culturally, should not even be topical anymore, and yet in 2016 we're still talking about it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the european union, and the european union. that's too bad.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is an important goal to be achieved, especially as human rights, and in particular women's rights, are enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. this means that these are values that are deeply rooted in our civil society and that they must be adequately protected also in the framework of eu laws and regulations. the commission has drawn up a plan for 2016-2019 to increase the implementation of women's rights and gender equality which is very concrete and which i hope will contribute in the short term to reducing the still persistent disparities within the eu. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the right to equal treatment is a right that is deeply rooted in our society and is fundamental to its further development. the european strategy on this issue ended in 2015 and was not followed by a new strategy. the european parliament resolution, which i supported with a favourable vote, calls on the commission to present a new specific strategy for women's rights and gender equality 2016-2020 and to start discussions with the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ to ensure that violence and gender discrimination against women is only a memory of the past and not, as we are unfortunately forced to see every day, a tragic daily reality, there is a need for a strong commitment by the institutions against gender inequality. that is why i voted strongly in favour of the resolution on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights in europe after 2015, for a greater and more concrete commitment by the commission and for the convening of an eu summit on gender equality and women's rights. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this resolution because, while recalling that equal treatment and opportunities for women and men is a key objective for all member states and deploring the fact that the commission's 2016 work programme does not contain any specific reference to the eu strategy for gender equality after 2015, it does not express an explicit criticism of the contents of the ec working document. the joint resolution also excludes the principle of subsidiarity from respect for certain commitments made by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution because it is very general and does not propose anything new.
in writing. i am pleased to support the oral question by mrs iratxe garcía pérez, in which the commission is reiteratedly urged to present as soon as possible a new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in the eu. i believe that europe must continue to send strong signals in this regard and demonstrate a firm commitment to its fight against social and sexual discrimination and to the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the question with oral answer, tabled by the femm committee to the european commission, on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights in europe after 2015, because i share the urgency and timeliness of such an initiative. equal treatment of men and women is not only a fundamental right but also one of the core values of the eu's ideology and the essential prerequisite for a fairer and more equitable society. the eu has always been a model in equal opportunities policies and has inspired initiatives to strengthen women's rights. however, in recent years we have seen a worrying slowdown in policy activity in this area and a consequent failure to achieve the objectives of previous strategies. it is disappointing in this sense that the commission has not included any kind of reference to the eu gender equality strategy post 2015 in its 2016 work programme, limiting itself to presenting a working document of little legislative and substantive value. i therefore share the call on the commission to work with parliament to renew its commitments and to reinforce its action on gender equality.
in writing. ‒ when it comes to gender equality, the eu cannot be bogged down in the legal distinctions between 'working papers' and 'strategies'. what we need at the moment is the proper implementation of all the legislative instruments that have been adopted so far.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the motion for a resolution calling on the ec to produce a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights after 2015. we fully share the need for a communication on the same level as the 2010-2015 strategy, but with greater ambition, and not just a working document presented by the commission on 3 december. we would point out that this has no interinstitutional value and is considered of minor political importance, since it does not require the approval of the college of commissioners and does not provide for a dedicated budget or concrete benchmarks, making it impossible to assess the progress made towards the objectives set. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. finally, we would like to stress the right call in the text of the resolution for greater cooperation between the institutions on the subject of gender equality: we are still waiting for a decision in the council on the proposal for a directive on women in the boards of directors and a new proposal for a directive on maternity leave.
in writing. ‒ the gender equality strategy 2010-2015, while it has had the merit of bringing this issue to the european agenda, has not achieved the results it was intended to achieve and which we hoped for. the commission was supposed to propose a new strategy for the period after 2015, but no communication has been presented to date. the commission did publish a document last december, but it is simply a low-level internal document, with little impact and too short a time horizon, lacking concrete benchmarks and objectively measurable objectives. the situation of women in the european union is still too unequal in the world of work, education and pensions; we need a firm response to violence against women, both in public and domestic life, a social scourge that is hard to detect and then eliminate. i hope that by signing and voting in favour of this resolution we can give a new impetus to the fight for gender equality, which must remain one of the main political objectives of this european commission.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i find the text, although partially agreeable, too vague and not very incisive as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on a new strategy for gender equality in the period after 2015 because i believe that such an instrument can be crucial for achieving the overall objectives of growth, employment and social inclusion in the european union. although the commission has put forward some guidance on the issue in a working document ('strategic commitment to gender equality 2016-2019'), we hereby call on the executive, as it did in a previous resolution adopted last year and as requested by the council, to exercise its power of initiative to adopt a genuine strategy that can more concretely address gender equality issues, including violence against women, the pay gap and work-life balance. a working document for internal use cannot suffice to express the commission's view on this point, while more comprehensive action is needed to define a clear strategy for strengthening women's rights and actively promoting gender equality.
in writing. the european strategy for equality between women and men expired in 2015 and, through a resolution, parliament called on the european commission to urgently present a new ad hoc strategy to defend women's rights and gender equality in the eu. in the femm committee, disappointment was expressed at the work carried out by the european commissioner and a new resolution was tabled which, although i agree with it, i do not think goes into the whole complexity of the subject. in my view, the political message should have been clearer, so as not to lend itself to ethical discussions, which can easily be exploited and do little to achieve tangible results. i hope that equal rights will not be just a great ideological manifesto, but will be translated into concrete actions that will overcome long-standing socio-cultural legacies and bring citizens to a full awareness of the importance of equal opportunities. i have therefore voted for abstention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr mcallister raises many important questions and touches on matters which are absolutely acceptable: the problem of the judicial system, which is further aggravated by backlogs and is also subject to political pressure; corruption, which is a plague that is absolutely persistent, not to mention discrimination against vulnerable groups such as lgbti and linguistic minorities; the necessary participation of civil society and opposition in the political process and also integration, not to mention the still too militaristic rhetoric. unfortunately, however, the relationship is plagued by a great evil: the question of relations with russia is raised. i do not understand why we insist on seeing these as an obstacle and not as a means of reviving a serious and frank political dialogue between us and bringing to the table the issues that have divided us over the years, especially since our policy is in reality very ambiguous and very different and varied. it is enough to think that while on the one hand we are calling for intransigence, on the other hand we are negotiating the doubling of the north stream. so let's finally decide on a line and start using common sense. let's take advantage of this opportunity that may never come again.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for this interesting debate, which reflects the importance of the enlargement process. as a key stabilising factor in and for the region, i fully appreciate the sensitivity of bilateral issues where further efforts will be needed to overcome the legacy of the past. at the same time, as i mentioned in my introduction, we should ensure that bilateral issues do not hamper the accession process. part of the negotiation process, by the way, is also a gradual alignment with european foreign policy. in that respect, a joint military exercise with russia does not send the right signal. the effective and impartial handling of war crimes in line with international standards features high in our negotiations with serbia. we will carefully monitor the implementation of the measures serbia has undertaken in its action plan on chapter 23 to address our recommendations on the need for efficient and impartial treatment of war crimes, equal treatment of suspects, proportionality of sentences and protection of victims. i also take note of your concerns regarding the protection of national minorities. this is also a key requirement for serbia. the legal framework is broadly in place and we are closely monitoring its consistent implementation across serbia, particularly in education, the use of languages and access to religious services and media in minority languages. in the end, serbia needs to guarantee all these rights in practice. here again, we will monitor serbia’s progress in implementing the measures it undertook under its rule of law action plans and the dedicated action plan on national minorities. once again, thank you for this valuable report, to all of you who contributed to it.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, from my side i would also like to express my sincere gratitude for the report and the commitment of the rapporteur, mr mcallister. i have the impression that this has been a very useful debate. serbia now has a clear path for moving ahead in the accession process and, most notably, in the area of the rule of law and the normalisation of relations with kosovo. mr mcallister mentioned the need to open chapters 23 and 24. let me also underline from my side that, in line with this new approach, the rules in chapter 23 and 24 will be addressed early on. of course we have to discuss this in the council, but i think it is important that we are already working hard in the coela working groups to get agreement on this. some member states would like to see additional progress on minorities. i think the national action plan on minorities that is being presented today in brussels by the serbian government will help in this respect. from my side, i would also like to underline the importance of continuing to solve bilateral issues. as stated in the last council conclusions on serbia, the council encourages serbia to further intensify its reform process. i think these issues were also mentioned by many members here today – an independent judiciary, building up a track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime. moreover – some members have mentioned this and i think it is important – particular attention needs to be paid to full respect for fundamental rights, including protection of the most vulnerable groups – in particular the roma – as well as to the effective implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities, tackling discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, and further improving the business environment and the investment climate. some concerns were mentioned about deteriorating conditions for the full exercise of freedom of expression. it is important, of course, that, within the context of reform, progress continues to be made on this issue, as well as – as commissioner hahn mentioned – to deal proactively with the issue of war crimes. serbia needs to maintain an active and constructive engagement in the normalisation process with kosovo, which has made significant progress. i think there has also been a productive approach from serbia towards the issue in kosovo. we will come to that later on this afternoon in the debate on kosovo. on the issue of foreign policy, which some members have mentioned, the european union closely follows the alignment of candidate countries with european union external policies and actions, including the eu’s relationship with russia. according to the commission’s last progress report, serbia’s alignment rate was 65%. in line with the negotiating framework, serbia needs to progressively align its policies and positions with those of the european union in the foreign and security policy area, which will be assessed within the screening of chapter 31. as we know, serbia did not align itself with the european union sanctions towards russia. that was also rationalised, if you like, during their chairmanship of the osce in 2015. we hope that we will see alignment on this file as well in the foreseeable future. let me underline again that, in line with our new approach, rule of law chapters 23 and 24 will be addressed early in the negotiations. i think that was also the main message from the rapporteur.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, firstly, let me welcome parliament’s recent consent to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with kosovo. it was an important decision. we are now working in the council to conclude the agreement and have it enter into force as soon as possible. the stabilisation and association agreement – the first comprehensive agreement between the european union and kosovo – sends, in my view, an important political signal of support and it is of critical importance for the future of kosovo. a lot will now depend on how the agreement will be implemented. the people in kosovo will feel the concrete benefits from the agreement if comprehensive reforms are undertaken. it is, therefore, now essential for kosovo to focus on the implementation of the agreement. i think, in particular, attention should be made to improving the rule of law, including judicial independence. kosovo also needs to intensify the fight against organised crime and corruption, which remains a serious problem, and to build a track record in high-profile cases. the council is concerned about the current political standoff in kosovo which, in our view, needs to be urgently resolved. we condemn all use of violence and we have clearly called on all sides concerned to address the challenges through political dialogue and to engage on the implementation of kosovo’s european reform agenda. strong political will is required from all political actors now to overcome this difficult internal situation and move kosovo far forward. political stability is an essential ingredient to consolidate the european process launched with the saa. association and stabilisation go, in the end, hand in hand. stabilisation in this context also includes moving forward on the normalisation of relations with serbia, as we just discussed in our previous debate. unless stabilisation is clearly visible, it will be difficult to move forward on association. we have seen very encouraging developments in the belgrade-pristina dialogue over the last year. the key agreements that were reached in august are an important achievement, and we know that this has not always been easy politically. it continues to remain a very politically-sensitive issue and a divisive issue, and i think it will now be important for kosovo to swiftly implement its part of these agreements, despite the internal difficulties it is facing. in this sense, i am encouraged by the meeting last week between prime ministers mustafa and vučić, by which they reaffirmed the importance of the dialogue for both countries. the council will closely follow these developments and we will continue to support kosovo. we will put particular emphasis on furthering kosovo’s socio-economic reform agenda, including through financial and technical assistance. economic growth, and specifically, i think, creating employment, is a main concern of the kosovo people. let me add just a few comments on the visa liberalisation process, which is a top political priority for kosovo. the commission’s recent report considers that kosovo has been steadily and effectively progressing in all areas covered by the visa liberalisation roadmap. at the same time, it also notes eight outstanding requirements which will need to be fulfilled, of which four important areas remain key priorities. i think it will now be central for kosovo to work on these areas. once all these criteria have been fulfilled, the council will revert to this issue. let me finally underline the important role eulex continues to play to support reforms and further the rule of law in kosovo.
member of the commission.– madam president, only two weeks ago i addressed this house to thank it for its support in the continuing development of eu-kosovo relations and its support for the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) we negotiated with kosovo. i would like again to thank the committee on foreign affairs and in particular rapporteur ulrike lunacek for their support. this house’s overwhelming vote in support of the saa on 21 january was welcomed in both brussels and pristina. in brussels it should allow the council to adopt the agreement later this month, and in pristina it reminded everyone of the support kosovo has in this house. i look forward to the saa entering into force in april or may. implementation of the agreement will not only deepen our political relations, it will also ensure a more predictable business environment, leading to much-needed jobs and growth. i hope that political leaders in kosovo take the opportunity of the adoption of the stabilisation and association agreement to sit around the table to discuss their differences and find a way out of the political stalemate. the political paralysis in pristina has lasted far too long and has caused a great deal of damage. it is high time that the opposition renounced violence and obstruction and got down to business. our 2015 report on kosovo confirms that kosovo needs to address structural reforms to tackle key economic reform challenges. unemployment is unacceptably high and economic development is not sufficient. more focus is needed on delivery of results in the fight against organised crime and corruption. the same goes for the independence and capacity of the judiciary. improvements in these areas should provide the people of kosovo with a perspective for a better future. as reflected in the saa, we attach great importance to the normalisation of kosovo’s relations with serbia. kosovo needs to implement the agreements it has reached and continue to work towards further agreements. kosovo also needs to ensure that the specialist chambers become fully operational quickly. kosovo’s cooperation with the chambers will be of critical importance to the country’s image and international standing and therefore to its european future. similarly, kosovo needs to continue to work with our european union rule of law mission (eulex) in the execution of its mandate. this is a legal obligation under the saa. we fully understand that visa liberalisation is a key issue for kosovo and that kosovo’s progress in this area is important to this house. the commission’s third and final report on kosovo’s visa progress last december noted substantial progress but also concluded that eight requirements still had to be fulfilled before it could proceed with the proposal. kosovo is working hard to fulfil the remaining recommendations and therefore i hope this will be possible very soon and then we can indeed have a positive report. once again, allow me to thank all of you for your support, and i am looking forward to the debate.
i would like to thank mr lunacek for his work. this progress report on kosovo captures the current situation of full transition. as has already been said, the signing and subsequent approval by the european parliament of the stabilisation and association agreement, which confirmed the european perspective for kosovo, is an important event. we believe that the conditions are in place for kosovo to move towards the consolidated objectives of closer relations with the european union. the lunacek report indicates what commitments must be made to make this happen. the relevant steps towards normalising ties with serbia must be consolidated and a reform policy developed more rapidly. efforts to reform the public administration are important, but politicization continues to raise enormous concerns. the main economic problems are identified as factors such as low competitiveness, the underground economy and the high unemployment rate, which objectively limit the country's growth and development potential. the issues of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the fight against organised crime must be taken seriously. we expect progress on all this. we must be aware that they are the essential condition for building a positive outlook for kosovo, free from the violence we have seen recently. we must do this as soon as possible, also to overcome the difficulties and the doubts, especially of those countries which have not yet recognized this important state and which we hope will recognize it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs lunacek for the great work she and her team have done. the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement is of course a very important step for kosovo, for its reform process and also for the strengthening of cooperation in many areas of the country. but what the citizens of kosovo are asking for we know is only one thing: the commission has already taken a number of measures. the liberalization of visas for schengen, especially for our countries, is an important topic to discuss these days. kosovo is the only country in the western balkans whose citizens do not yet enjoy this status, and it is frustrating to think that when they had yugoslav passports the situation was very different. of course, kosovo still has to make great strides, it has to make strides towards the rule of law, towards the fight against corruption. it will be the task of this parliament to ensure that the rights of the kosovars are guaranteed and that kosovo follows the necessary path of reform.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too should have been part of this last election mission which was cancelled. i fully agree with what president valenciano said about the recognition of the first round result and the need for these elections to be held as soon as possible. what about haiti? if haiti had hunger, violence and corruption before the earthquake, after the earthquake, after six long years of attention from the united states but also from europe, we can say that there is still hunger, violence, corruption and attacks, in addition to a fragile democracy that we have seen in this period. we can state without any hesitation that the 2010 earthquake was and continues to be a matter partly of international cooperation and partly of politics. in the meantime, there have been some very controversial events, including the passage of a mining law, so dear to multinational corporations, for example. the environmental situation is a big problem, extreme deforestation has exposed the country to floods, hurricanes and landslides. with few exceptions, cooperation has not been concerned with this issue and has not contributed to the sustainable development of the country. we ask the commission whether we are really going to be the decisive players in this matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the start of the electoral process on 25 october, we are today in haiti in the midst of a great deal of political instability which is liable to destroy the already fragile equilibrium of a country torn by extreme poverty. but let's just say this: the european union electoral mission demonstrated that the elections took place in a peaceful atmosphere and that, apart from minor incidents, they met international standards. despite this, the losers wanted to incite the population by spreading unfounded news about the unreliability of the electoral process and the global media itself contributed a lot to spreading the perception of electoral fraud around the world. but we were there and we documented, also with the excellent work of elena valenciano, the good outcome of the electoral process. the european union now has a clear task: to call on all the actors involved to assume political and moral responsibility, on behalf of their people, to end the current political impasse and respect the results of the 25 october elections. it is necessary to organize a new calendar based on the validity of the first round of elections as soon as possible. we hope, commissioner, that the european commission will take a consistent and determined stand on this. we all have a duty to help haiti in the democratic process, to ensure stability and to begin to provide answers to the many problems afflicting the country, starting with social and economic conditions, to repair the many damages that have occurred in addition to those of the earthquake. we have a great task and we must carry it out to the end.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank mr valenciano and all the other members who took part in this mission. i was part of the delegation of the european union electoral mission to haiti on 25 october 2015. haiti is a country that is still recovering from the devastating effects of the earthquake that struck six years ago. the situation, i do not deny, is still difficult. the country is full of contradictions, but it is nevertheless firmly claiming its right to free and democratic elections. we made sure that happened. our presence in haiti has ensured that the elections of 25 october were conducted in a lawful and fair manner, in a climate of legality and respect for the rules, as my colleagues have also testified. the people welcomed us with enthusiasm, making our presence on the island even more significant, despite the low turnout in the election, i must admit, due to the lack of trust in local institutions. since this election, the haitian people have voted for two candidates. we must acknowledge and recognize the popular will and above all we must carry out our mission: the european union is committed to ensuring that haiti is equipped as soon as possible with democratic and stable institutions capable of bringing the country out of the precarious situation in which it has been for far too long. i would remind you that the task of electoral observation missions is also to consolidate peace and security by promoting democracy. i think we should continue a process which, in our opinion, is not over.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, politics today is afflicted with a terrible disease: the do syndrome. doing anything to avoid giving the impression that you are immobile and therefore outmatched by your competitors or at least overwhelmed by events. one of the chronic sufferers of this disease is my country's current prime minister, matteo renzi. but to take decisions with very serious consequences, such as launching a military intervention without having a clear political objective to pursue, is unforgivable for a statesman. worse, flagging one motive to pursue another is a crime in itself. a crime that happened in 2011, for example, and everything that came after that was the direct responsibility of those who intervened at the time in a reckless way. according to us government official blumenthal, that intervention was pushed by sarkozy to pursue bad economic and commercial interests: the european union must not only secure more oil concessions from italy's eni, but also increase french influence in africa, reassert its military and domestic prestige - in this case that of sarkozy - and above all prevent gaddafi's possible plan to replace the french cfa franc with a new pan-african currency backed by libyan reserves. there were many suspicions and now there is the word of the diplomatic corps of the united states. when i hear the itchy interventionists of france, britain, italy and the united states in libya, i think that certain lessons have been missed. i think of those leaders who are too concerned about the media response to the paris attacks, to show their muscle. i think the only real fear they have, and daesh has understood this, is simply to defend oil infrastructure, not libyan rights or the security of europeans. most of them are aimed at not losing the elections. the priority objective is to stabilise libya and resume the transition. if we go bombing and deploying our armies we will only end up rallying the islamic militias around the daesh catalyst. the capture of sirte is nothing but what happened in tikrit after the fall of saddam hussein: the european union has a duty to help the victims of the war in afghanistan. and so daesh grows with former gaddafi elements and tribal elements, not because of ideological choices but because of political mistakes. if we intervene without a clear political agreement, the factions and militias that come close to our forces will then be portrayed as collaborators with the invaders, will be discredited, and thus the reconciliation process will be further undermined. instead, one should expect that the regional powers, faced with the growing chaos, will finally stop interfering and stop being seduced by the logic of strongmen like aftar who have only complicated the negotiations. if the factions don't want to negotiate, let's extend the talks to local realities, to the municipalities, to the tribal leaders directly. we must not allow the catastrophe of a war of emergency to strike us again because it is easy. it's time to demand what's right.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i received a letter from the parliament in tobruk today, signed by dozens of parliamentarians, with the instruction to forward it to the high representative, which i did. in it, the tobruk parliament informs us that it is unable, because of the embargo, to defend itself against isis and that it wants a government that is not an instrument of external forces interested only in controlling libyan resources. why has the european union so far done nothing in libya to really help the libyans fight isis and let it expand to the doorsteps of europe? given the results of the franco-american intervention, does the high representative not think that further uncoordinated intervention, which the libyans will not accept and which they will fight, could lead to the complete loss of control of the borders and increase further invasion of europe? the libyan government inherited the embargo imposed on the gaddafi regime. but has the european union realised that gaddafi is no more and that the situation has therefore changed? we are asking the european union and the member states to sign readmission agreements with the new government, like the one italy already had with libya. we should remember that, according to the un, there are 400 000 migrants in libya ready to leave for europe, among whom, as the french minister of defence has denounced, a very large number of terrorists or men linked in any way to isis and daesh could easily be included. i believe that this appeal from the members of the tobruk parliament should be taken seriously by this parliament and, of course, by the high representative, who has so far been deaf to these appeals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directives contained in the motion for a resolution are quite clear. the libyan political agreement represents a unique opportunity to address the current unsustainable situation and to lay the foundations for the construction of a civil and democratic state. the agreement reached in morocco is aimed at guaranteeing the libyan people a government based on the principle of separation of powers and at strengthening the state institutions, in particular the government of national accord, so as to face all the challenges facing libya. our task today is to put in place all the political and diplomatic action necessary to ensure that the agreement is not only approved, but implemented and the basis is created for greater inclusiveness of all actors in the necessary process of national reconciliation. in this context i would like to stress three points, in addition to those already contained in the resolution, on which the council and the commission should work. the first is the important role of the neighbouring countries, a role which they are actually already playing, in helping the stabilisation process, and we must invest in this role. secondly, there is an important additional role that must be given to the municipalities. just as libya is shaped by tribal realities, local institutions can play a vital role in the process of democratic stabilisation. finally, there is another message which i think it would be useful to convey to parliament here: we must avoid the mistakes of the past. it is to be hoped that the international community and the ruling class will use greater awareness, foresight and wisdom this time. use your head, not just your stomach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am less optimistic than you are, mr koenders. i fear another war in libya because we know the disasters of the war on terror. let us not forget that refugees are the result of the chaos we have been sowing everywhere for years. foreign fighters talk confusedly about islam, but they mostly think of themselves as the war generation. you cannot untie the syrian knot and you do not want to, since you accept the turkish diktat: no kurds in the negotiations for now. the only one who wants them is putin, perhaps the only one who knows how indispensable the kurds are if isis is to be defeated. the same blindness in libya: the failed intervention in 2011 opened the doors of this country to isis and now it has prepared an intervention without being sure that there is a state in libya. last but not least, i think italy should not set foot in libya because of its colonial past.
i'm asking for a blue card. i wanted to ask my colleague whether he agrees or not to lift the embargo, as the tobruk government is asking for, that is, whether he thinks that without the embargo a solution could be found more quickly, as opposed to the fact that the tobruk government has the embargo and therefore cannot do what it thinks it should do, while, let us say, the muslim brotherhood has the possibility of doing what it wants.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from this privileged position we can see how politics is used by private interests and multinationals to destabilize governments and the will of the people. on the situation in venezuela, i think there are objective problems: exaggerated levels of corruption, including within maduro's party, shortages of food and medicine, inflation at 500%, the presence of the diabolical phenomenon of paramilitarism. in the face of this situation, what are the wealthy and powerful countries like the european union and the united states of america doing to improve the situation of the venezuelan people? i think the answer is clear, both in the intentions and in the facts. we are witnessing a veritable economic war against the bolivarian republic, which is being waged by the troika. the aggression against venezuelans is visible to all. let us think of the sanctions imposed by the united states, which considers venezuela a threat to their country. i remember the alarms and hysteria of some members of this parliament, who predicted that president maduro would not recognize the possible and subsequently actual defeat in the december elections. i, on the other hand, commend president maduro for accepting the outcome of the vote and encourage venezuelans not to give up and to pursue independence and the values of the dawn.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group believes that the inclusion of transparency rules in international agreements would not only improve the transparency of disputes but would also give the agreements overall credibility. these two elements are extremely important and central to us in the epp. i therefore call on the council here today - the answers that have been given are partially satisfactory - to overcome this deadlock between the institutions as soon as possible, because it is a matter of ratifying the union's rules, the first convention that will finally reform and improve international investment law. the council and the members present here, as well as the commission, are well aware of the fundamental, central and priority role of harmonizing these rules for the future credibility of international trade agreements, in which the union invests, in which the union is a project that is realized through a fundamental element. the council's deadlock can therefore be a cause for concern. we consider it to be such because at present the only agreement that has been concluded since the adoption of the convention is the energy charter, which is currently excluded from the scope of the uncitral transparency rules. where the union is the respondent in an investor-to-investor dispute settlement procedure in isds cases and the claimant is from a third country, the transparency rules cannot be waived to a significant detriment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, so far 127 known isds cases have been initiated by powerful multinationals against eu states and have resulted in €3.5 billion of compensation already paid. the requests for those still pending amount to over 30 billion, while it is not known how much has already been granted as a result of friendly transactions, such as the 2 billion paid by poland or the changed environmental legislation by germany. but even more, these figures do not take into account many other causes that remain secret. to avoid such situations, there is a un convention which requires the disclosure of information concerning ongoing isds cases, a convention to which the union and many other states are not parties. this is causing serious problems, especially with regard to the energy charter, a treaty which provides for isds and which is giving rise to a very large number of cases. we in the five star movement are opposed to isds, but we want the convention to be ratified immediately because we are asking for something that is fundamental for the citizens, namely transparency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the council has spoken so clearly on the subject of transparency, because it is the fundamental pillar of our understanding of the conduct of community trade policy and of having a fruitful relationship with our partners and above all with european public opinion. i therefore find it all the more regrettable that procedural grounds have been used to block the ratification at community level of the mauritius convention on the transparency of dispute settlement mechanisms and at the same time that some member states have not yet ratified the convention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council and the member states are therefore called upon, at a crucial moment in the reform of dispute settlement mechanisms, to pass a test of maturity which includes ratification of the uncitral convention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the events in cologne, which are very serious and must be dealt with with with the utmost severity, must not, however, serve to foment a dangerous and sterile confrontation that feeds populist winds that want to destroy europe. the condemnation of what happened in germany on new year's eve must be unanimous, with the awareness that it was a real terrorist attack, designed in every detail to further destabilize the increasingly delicate balance we are living in our european union. this, of course, must not lead to generalizing, indiscriminately pointing the finger at all migrants, even if there were migrants among the thousand men. their assault and everything that night was planned and executed as a semi-military operation, certainly anticipating the effects that would follow. such a vast, continuous and determined harassment operation cannot be seen as just an act against women. it was an act of defiance against the whole of society, against our culture, against our very freedom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of discrimination against women in the labour market. the incident shocked the world, as it still does not happen often enough when women in our cities are daily victims of violence, harassment in public and even in private, or when we have to realize that unfortunately a mentality and a culture of women as objects are still ingrained. we must take very, very strict measures and condemn certain acts, but above all we must combat the mentality of abuse, of possession and of domination, first of all by educating people to respect the person who is the basis of respect for women.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is unacceptable that this debate should be relegated to this late hour and more than a month after the fact. the rape game, taharrush, was played in the german squares, and this is not a journalistic assumption, but the conclusion reached by the german federal police. it is not useful for the purposes of the debate to understand whether it is refugees who have acted or not, because it is a criminal network of men who have abused women. we strongly condemn this practice and all forms and acts of violence, regardless of who commits it or where, whether in europe, asia or africa. i will not stand by and watch the hard-won rights and freedoms of us women trampled underfoot. the commission must show that it is serious about tackling and solving the scourge of violence and must stop hiding behind embarrassed silence or, worse, political correctness. women don't need talk, they need facts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the events in cologne must be told and judged in solidarity, without any ifs and buts and without any mitigating words, with the women who have suffered harassment, who have suffered violence. i believe that solidarity with women is the starting point for any reasoning about what happened. i also believe that a genuine policy against violence against women, against male violence against women, must start with the guarantee of full self-determination for each one. in a europe where gender inequality is still so high, it is difficult to speak of full self-determination, it is difficult to combat male violence, which is both symbolic and material, in depth. i believe that women are treated as objects when they are harassed and treated as objects when they are exploited by xenophobic and racist campaigns. as the honourable member said before me, we are nobody's wives, we need no one to protect us, we do not need armies, we do not need godfathers.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on insularity, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000013/2016 - b8-0106/2016) (2015/3014 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. mr president, members of the european parliament, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the committee on regional development of the european parliament for this oral question on support for islands, outermost regions under the european structural and investment funds. i would like to say from the outset that i am particularly concerned about this subject. last year we had two meetings: the annual meeting in guadeloupe and another in réunion, and in the last session in strasbourg i had a meeting with my colleague, commissioner karmenu vella, with all nine members of the european parliament from the outermost regions, precisely to see how far we could, at the beginning of the 2014-2020 programming period, help these regions, which, as you said, in addition to being very far from europe, have a number of specific problems. as you know, our funds, european funds, have a long and successful tradition of supporting regions with specific geographical characteristics, including island regions that face various social, economic and environmental challenges and require a specific case-by-case approach. these aspects are, in my view, reflected in the new regulation, covering the 2014-2020 programming period, which calls on member states, where appropriate, to establish an integrated approach in the framework of partnership agreements, in order to address the specific needs of regions facing severe and sometimes permanent handicaps. this is why a number of islands already benefit from a derogation as regards the thematic concentration of investments from the european regional development fund. other islands benefit from greater flexibility in taking into account their specific needs. in addition, the outermost regions, which are all islands, also benefit from a number of exceptions and specific conditions, thus attempting to compensate for the severe and permanent constraints they face. but of course, as you have pointed out, i think we can do more. the commission shall monitor the situation in the nuts-2 and nuts-3 regions. the commission has developed a series of synthetic indicators which take into account, for example, the regional competitiveness index or the human development index. unfortunately, the data we have and have at our disposal are not sufficiently precise at the moment to reflect the specific characteristics of all island regions, but we are continuing to invest in collecting data and forecasts, which will allow us to present a more detailed analysis of the situation in these regions in the next cohesion report.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for me, because my initiative - naturally thanks to the procedure provided for by parliament and the commission - is now before the house. this is a central theme. i would like to turn to the commissioner to give her some concrete examples and to help her understand better and more clearly how, in some ways, even her reflection, although appreciated, is a little distant from reality. the islands have no access to the market. the islands today have the handicap and disadvantage of speaking only one language, the one in which the union has to decide whether the support that is given to them is called state aid and is legitimate. low-cost companies are fleeing the islands, multinationals are fleeing the islands. this means a lack of territorial continuity, a lack of competition in the price of energy. the islands, with their small and mediumsized enterprises, cannot achieve the process of internationalisation because they are strategically abandoned. i think it is essential to understand that when it comes to transporting goods and people, we have a monopoly of the companies and when it comes to the tourist system, the tourist system cannot be sustained because there is no seasonalization. this is all due to the fact that the islands do not have dedicated funding. so, commissioner, these regulations you mentioned are weak and they certainly need to be reviewed, evaluated and strengthened. we have important strategic objectives to define for areas that are abandoned. i therefore ask you to devote yourself to reviewing this position in the light of the strategic framework for future programming.
i would like to thank the commissioner for her presence in this debate and for the attention she is giving to the situation of the islands. i care about that in particular. i am a member of parliament from sicily and we islanders know the situation very well. the islands are among the most vulnerable territories; the structural and natural features represent their extraordinary richness but also their enormous weakness. today we are asking the commission to identify these weaknesses and to identify the shortcomings which are preventing and hindering the economic growth and development of our islands. it's a bitter truth: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. these disadvantages can, however, become assets. dedicated programming is needed to take account of the specificities of the islands. it is therefore essential that the commission establishes an island office composed of experts with the task of coordinating and evaluating policies for island regions. the islands have so much to offer: the sea becomes blue, growth, natural resources renewable energy, agricultural products organic farming. we strongly urge the commission to support the islands.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for being here to address this important issue, which is also important for my country. we agree with most of what is said in the motion for a resolution, such as the appropriateness of using other indicators besides gdp. let us take sardinia as an example. according to the european union, it is in good health and has a gdp of 77%, so it is excluded from the funds for disadvantaged areas, but at the same time it has very high unemployment. we can say that the union will also be vigilant, but it seems to me that it is also blind. the time for words is over, we must face reality and provide solutions, that is what the citizens call us to. one of the islands' problems is transportation and energy. well, sicily has a very low absorption rate of funds, because of the administrative incompetence of regional governments, and a transport system that is not up to the standards of governments in developed countries. but all governments, from berlusconi to renzi, we must say, are wandering on a bridge over the strait, which is useless, harmful and moreover in an earthquake zone. instead, we could start the transition to a third industrial revolution, which would create a development model based on renewable energy, sustainable transport, the internet of things. finally, how can the text of the motion for a resolution on energy and employment be reconciled with the different choices made by various national and local governments on oil, with the drilling in the sicilian canal, the ridiculous royalties and the various concessions made to the eni?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is a matter of what you are judging, it is a matter of reality. sardinia and sicily have youth unemployment above 50%, young people are fleeing. sardinia and sicily are treated as colonies, first by the italian state and now by brussels. practical examples show that not only are they not helped, but they are harmed. the european fisheries regulations are a total disaster, as they have stranded thousands of workers in the harbour. the european agricultural regulations are insane, because they have given preference to imports of products from across the mediterranean, causing thousands of farms to close and leaving hundreds and hundreds of fields and territories uncultivated. we're a joke about transportation, you know. we are talking about the environment and pollution, but in sicily 80% of the railway network is single track and half of the trains run on diesel fuel! while you want to leave more people on their feet, there is the region of sicily which has half of the trains that travel on diesel. as far as sardinia is concerned, we are not even talking about the railway network and there is even no motorway. and then the commission sends in infringements by running away carriers and airplanes and allowing a monopoly on sea routes. i mean, the less you do, the better. i ask you, on behalf of the islanders of italy and europe, to let it go, to let the islands manage themselves and develop their own work and territory, unless the commission considers that the islands should base their future and their wealth on the reception of immigrants. if so, you'll have to pass over our bodies first.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the members who have wanted this debate in the house and thank you to the commissioner for being here to answer our questions. i'd like to ask you a question. today, the islands are experiencing a situation of marginalization which is not only physical but also economic and social. until now, the european commission has intervened and proposed actions for the outermost regions without taking into account that there are many more islands within the european union and that they are experiencing all this marginality. i ask you what the european union intends to do to promote territorial integration, to promote continuity, to ensure that there is a real agenda for overcoming the conditions of insularity, which is economic marginality, which is backwardness, which is not a condition for development. to get here i take three planes simply because i come from an island that is certainly less served than many others and i am certainly luckier than many others who have to pay for the ticket out of their own pocket. how does the european union intend to overcome this marginalisation? what does the commission intend to do to promote integration and to reduce transport costs and to ensure that our goods can reach the same markets as others?
now, let's move on to the catch-the-eye. there are many calls for intervention. i was flexible during the debate given the importance of the subject and the sensitivity of the islands to many members. but if you all want to speak, it is absolutely essential that the 'catch-the-eye' speakers speak for only one minute, otherwise i shall be forced to cut the number of speeches. the 'catch-the-eye' procedure
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an important initiative on the part of the regi committee that we are able to bring this debate before the commissioner in the chamber this morning. in a few seconds i would like to leave you this message, madam commissioner: the third report on the state of cohesion, which was already mentioned this morning, reminds us that the recent crisis has hit the islands the hardest and that it is more difficult for the islands to overcome a development lag and finally to catch up with the growth that will allow the european economic cohesion project to be fully implemented. i 'd like to remind you of one thing: it's important to be online today. you can overcome your insularity by being online. take some specific initiatives now so that every island is connected to the digital networks, every island is connected to the energy networks, and there is no longer an island like sardinia that is disconnected from the gas network, every island is connected to the network with regard to transport conditions and every island is fully guaranteed the right to mobility. commissioner, a few things but do them now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one thing emerges from the debate we have just heard, madam commissioner: on the one hand, the islands have similarities, because all the islands have bigger problems than the continent and other areas of our union, but on the other hand, there are in fact great differences between islands and islands, in terms of size, distance, the problems they face. i would ask you, having heard all the problems, if you decide to draw up the white paper, to take account of these differences and therefore to consider the large islands, the small islands, the islands which have problems of insularity among themselves because they form an archipelago, as well as the outermost areas which, when they have insular characteristics, obviously have even greater problems. so this is my appeal and i hope it will be heeded.
there has been no shortage of calls for action and even strong interventions. it is now up to the commission to respond to parliament's requests.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate on this highly topical subject is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000012/2016 - b8-0105/2016) (2015/3013 ((rsp)).
corina cretu, member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would first of all like to thank you for this oral question from the committee on regional development of the european parliament, which focuses on the role of local and regional authorities in the context of the european structural and investment funds. you know very well that, from our point of view, we work every day with these local authorities, subnational authorities who play a key role in the implementation of programmes funded by our funds, because they bring the european union and european policies closer to the people, while helping to implement eu-funded projects much more effectively on the ground. from our point of view, the european commission, we rely very much on the role of local authorities, the role of managing authorities. we believe that they know best what is needed in a region, what can be done and what cannot be done. regional policy has this fundamental feature because it adapts to the needs of each region. as you know, with your support, with the support of the european parliament, we have managed to convince the member states to involve local and regional authorities in the decision-making process, both at the pre-legislative stage and throughout the programming period. i am grateful to the european parliament for making the principle of partnership, the principle of bringing together non-governmental organisations and local authorities to make decisions, an ex-ante conditionality in the new regulations, because europe is diverse: we have countries where this principle of partnership has been a tradition for decades, but we also have other countries where this principle is not fully integrated. i would therefore like to assure you that the local authorities have been closely involved, both in the negotiation of the partnership agreements and operational programmes and in the implementation of projects at local and regional level. the european commission is already undertaking a study on the implementation of this partnership principle... (sound interrupted) in 2014-2020 and i assure you that the study will be made public in the coming months. for example, as regards the integrated urban actions, which you referred to, madam president, and which are very important, eur 15 billion has been allocated to cities in the period 2014-2020 so that they can meet their specific development needs. this is the first time in the history of the european union that the commission is actually giving money directly to cities. i think it's a decision of trust in the ability of these cities to decide on their needs and to spend money for their citizens. the same is true for community-led local development actions, where both the public and private sectors and civil society are at the forefront of implementing local development strategies. on the one hand, we are working closely with the dutch presidency of the council to ensure that the urban agenda of the european union becomes a reality so that cities really have a say. an example would be when it comes to the european union's support for urban poverty reduction or the social inclusion of migrants. you referred, madam president, to the riga declaration. the amsterdam declaration is next. as i said, the dutch presidency is putting a strong emphasis on the urban agenda and is due to organise a meeting with all the mayors of european capitals in amsterdam in march, after which we hope to have this amsterdam declaration in june. this is the first time that all member states agree on the need for an urban agenda. you know that some member states have so far invoked the principle of subsidiarity, rejecting a specific european framework for the urban agenda. and we, in the commission, and i personally, are thinking about organizing a meeting with a number of mayors - primarily mayors of the capitals most affected by the refugee problem - because, regardless of the national policy on refugees, some mayors are having to take urgent action in relation to the challenges they have. i think we need to help these cities, which are the most affected, with the refugee problem. on the other hand, we support the administrative capacity of local and regional authorities so that they can really tap the potential of european funds, and here i think you will agree with me that european funds are not always everything. money is not always everything. we need, first of all, administrative capacity, the capacity to develop successful projects, because we do not develop projects from brussels. it's not in our power. it's not our decision. it is therefore a decisive year in this respect, a year when beneficiaries and local authorities must develop viable projects that truly respond to the needs of citizens. as you know, the structural and investment funds have a dedicated thematic objective, efficient public administration, which aims at strengthening institutional capacity, with a budget of over five billion for the period 2014-2020. i am confident that these measures will clearly increase the impact of our funds on economic growth and i hope that they will also lead to the creation of new jobs. thank you and i look forward to your comments.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward this report, and i am glad that he has taken the initiative to put forward this report, which is a very good report. we know that cohesion policy is the main investment instrument of the european union today and it remains the main instrument even with the juncker plan. in the next programming period, which we shall be discussing shortly, we think that this should absolutely remain the case. we have some concerns about this because if the overall budget does not increase, it is quite clear that the increase in demand is likely to reduce resources in the areas where these resources are most important. we believe that all regions must be involved, including those of so-called competitiveness, and we believe that the full involvement of regions and local authorities must continue to be essential from the earliest stages of programming. we have always been in favour of coordination and coherence between the different sources of european investment, but we believe that cohesion policy remains, as it has been so far, a tremendous force for growth and development and progress. so we ask you to be the defender of it, in the role of local authorities, but above all in its existence.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy must be shared and based on a constant relationship between the various levels, from the european union to the territories, if it is to be successful. today, however it is designed and implemented, it does not work and does not achieve its aim of reducing the gap between the different regions of europe. there is a huge problem of governance and administrative incompetence on the part of the regional authorities. it would be too long to list here all the waste and useless work that has been done over the years, including in my own country, and which has caused serious socioeconomic damage and damage to the image not only of the regions concerned but also of cohesion policy as a whole. in addition to the analysis of past programming, which we must do, we must ask ourselves how to overcome the critical points that have been identified. i am referring to the very low expenditure in the first few years and the accelerated, sudden, incredible expenditure in the last few months, with the consequent use of the shore projects to avoid losing available resources. i am sorry to see that the late adoption of the operational programmes, which is the main cause of the problems, has been repeated in this programming too. we must absolutely reverse course and speed up the appointment of managing authorities, so that calls for proposals and projects can be launched as soon as possible. but europe also has its responsibilities. the links between cohesion policy and economic governance and the separation of investment from deficit calculation need to be re-examined. the five star movement has been insisting on these points and issues since the beginning and i know that other parties are finally sharing the same view. the italian government itself and renzi himself seem to agree, but we fear that they are frontal actions and mere electoral operations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
now, let's move on to the catch-the-eye. there are a lot of calls for intervention. i do not think i can give everyone the opportunity to speak, because there are about 15 requests. the 'catch-the-eye' procedure
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to make one comment to the commissioner. on the one hand we have a gradual strengthening of the role of local authorities - cities, regions and even macro-regions - with the urban agenda, but at the same time we are moving forward, with the reform of economic governance at european level, between european semester, budgetary constraints and reform programmes, a conditioning of the role of subsidiarity and cohesion policy. these are two trends which probably require further reflection in order to understand what the new function of cohesion policy is and, above all, what the role of local authorities is. i would like to see this subject carefully considered, so that in the coming months and years we do not find ourselves faced with two phenomena which do not converge but diverge.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that in cohesion policy the degree of consultation of regional and local authorities, from the stage of negotiations on legislation to the adoption of operational programmes, has increased little over time. only one third of the member states consulted in 2015 by the council of european municipalities and regions have set their own funding priorities in concert with local authorities and regions. the municipalities and regions must be allowed to negotiate, within a stable legal framework, investments in priority areas essential for their development. it is essential that local and regional authorities are involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of programmes, for example by setting up joint task forces bringing together different levels of governance, socioeconomic partners and civil society. the commission must launch a public consultation as soon as possible on how to strengthen the role of regional and local authorities and then, on that basis, launch a formal initiative. the creation of a genuine partnership between member states, regions and local authorities is essential to foster economic growth and sustainable job creation.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights violations in crimea have increased sharply since the illegal occupation and annexation of the peninsula by russia. several international organizations have reported many violations against the tatar community, the majority of whom have expressed objections to the russian occupation and boycotted the referendum, the so-called march 16 referendum. these abuses include kidnappings, enforced disappearances, rape, torture and extrajudicial executions, which the authorities have failed to investigate and prosecute. those who refused to take up russian citizenship, for example, after the annexation continue to suffer discrimination in all areas of political, social and economic life. ukrainian and tatar media have been silenced and several journalists have been forced to flee crimea for fear of persecution. we're denouncing this situation so that it stops as soon as possible.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to deny the failure of the member states and the european union on the bahraini issue. what has been done in practice and what will be the next steps for the release of activists imprisoned, tortured and ill-treated? so far we have seen a wonderful proxy activity between states, with which we are seeking friendship and with which we are always trying to have wonderful relations. we have failed to protect and defend human rights activists and defenders. today, other facts highlight the abuses that continue in the country, such as the restriction of the right to express and peaceful protest. the case of mohammed ramadan, husain ali moosa and nabeel rajab, arbitrarily arrested and tortured simply for exercising their rights, is a clear proof of this. in the light of these facts, the european union and the member states should work in depth on a strategy, especially on the major foreign players operating in bahrain, to exert economic and diplomatic pressure in order to obtain the release of the activists and prisoners unlawfully detained.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the dramatic confrontation that is inflaming the gulf region and pitting two regional powers such as iran and saudi arabia, which are determined to impose their hegemony, bahrain is included, where there are repeated reports of human rights violations against political dissent. mohammed ramadan, who we are talking about today, is just another activist targeted for having the courage to denounce government policies that are in total contradiction with human rights. by the way, another case we have recently dealt with is that of activist nabeel rajab, who is still banned from leaving the country despite his release. the situation is made all the more alarming by the many reported cases of the use of torture by police forces. all this is part of a widespread logic that tends to reduce the space for civil society and to intensify state control over the media. we therefore express our deep concern and would ask the bahraini authorities to respond positively to our requests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is concern about the regression of bahrain towards the death penalty. in this country, basic rights to a fair trial are denied and many people are subjected to torture during detention and interrogation. it is appalling that these practices are being perpetrated systematically and on a large scale, despite numerous promises of reform. on 29 december 2014, a bahraini criminal court sentenced mohammed ramadan and husain ali moosa to death for their alleged involvement in a bomb attack in february 2014. both defendants claim that they were tortured by the authorities to make them confess to the crime. economic and diplomatic pressure must be exerted on the bahraini government to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty, aimed at abolishing the practice, and investigations must be launched into allegations of torture by those sentenced to death. finally, it is necessary to ask for the death sentences of mohammed ramadan and husain ali moosa and all those sentenced to death to be commuted.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the facts show that fewer and fewer people are speaking out in china, and even fewer are publishing. the year 2016 in chinese publishing has opened with yet another controversy related to censorship and freedom of expression. power current publishes books that the beijing regime considers banned and therefore illegal on the mainland, but are available in the hong kong special administrative region. the texts were indexed because they attack the government of the people's republic. in 2015, the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the european union and china was celebrated. the strategic partnership is of fundamental importance for the eu-china relations. but i think it is appropriate for the european union to deepen these economic and trade links only if there are visible and tangible improvements in the human rights situation. the union must work to strengthen democracy, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, transparency and freedom of expression. we must not be indifferent, especially after these events.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last four months, the five publishers in hong kong have been lost. two of them, gui minhai and lee bo, are european citizens of swedish and british nationality respectively. it is feared that the five publishers have been seized by the authorities of the people's republic of china for political reasons. in fact, these disappearances are very likely linked to the publication of literary works critical of the beijing government. moreover, the fact that lee bo was taken from hong kong territory not only constitutes a clear violation of human rights, but also an alarming intemperance on the part of the authorities and above all a failure to respect the autonomist principle of political and legislative division between china and hong kong, called "one country, two systems". there is therefore great concern about the fate of the european citizens and other personalities involved, and it is necessary, in view of the specific gravity and the strong censorship to which freedom of expression remains subject in china, that the european union raise this issue very clearly with the chinese authorities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in china today not only five booksellers and five publishers have disappeared, but the much-vaunted and totally violated principle of 'one country, two systems' has also disappeared. it's not there anymore, colleagues. there's no point in hiding. the regime's censorship is now at its height against the critical activity and free expression of anyone who is in any way challenging the work of the government. these citizens paid the price, and many more will follow. i ask you, finally, to start to stop using two weights and two measures, depending on the situation. we cannot allow china's geopolitical and economic weight to influence our attitude. so we must demand the immediate release of these people who have been arrested and disappeared, worse still, illegally, and perhaps even forced to confess under torture, and demand that china abide by the international agreements it has signed. enough of europe with two faces. we must be really consistent for once with what we are supposed to be defending.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the serbian situation in a coherent and realistic way. the text highlights the main problems, which concern: the independence of the judiciary, discrimination against vulnerable groups (linguistic minorities, lgbti, etc.), persistent corruption and the unacceptable persecution of non-aligned journalists. the road we have started is yielding results, but much remains to be done. i have decided to abstain, however, because there are clear geopolitical ambiguities at international level in the text.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. the report on the progress made by the balkan country in the stages of its accession to the eu, presented in 2015, represents an important moment of reflection to understand the difficulties and successes of the path undertaken. serbia has undoubtedly made important efforts by embarking on an ambitious plan of systemic and socioeconomic reforms aimed at strengthening the country's overall structure. the report, which i supported with my vote, stresses in particular the importance of progress in the area of the normalisation of relations with kosovo and more generally underlines the continuing commitment of the balkan country to the process of european integration. strengthening the rule of law and democratic mechanisms, the protection of human rights and respect for minorities must continue to be a priority alongside serbia's commitment to the creation of key energy and transport infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the text under vote is unbalanced and unshared. support for lgbti people and for the strengthening of roma integration are not what i would call primary requirements for assessing serbia's progress in its accession process, so i did not intend to support the resolution with my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the progress made by serbia, especially in the normalisation of relations with kosovo, represents important steps towards the balkan country's accession to the european union. the prospect of the balkan countries joining the european union is one of the main factors for stability in the region and must therefore be supported by both european and national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it welcomes serbia's constructive approach to dealing with the migration crisis; the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. it is noted that serbia is an essential and collaborative partner of the eu in the balkans and that it is therefore essential that the union provides resources and appropriate financial support. welcomes the substantial efforts made by serbia to provide, with eu and international support, reception and humanitarian assistance to third-country nationals and calls on serbia to rapidly increase its reception capacity.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2015 progress report on serbia, which demonstrates a continued commitment to the european integration process and has embarked on an ambitious reform programme. i believe that thorough negotiations of the chapters on 'judiciary and fundamental rights' and 'justice, freedom and security' are essential to tackling these reforms. serbia needs to improve the planning, coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the new rules and policies. i also call on the serbian authorities to encourage increased investment throughout serbia and to reduce economic and social disparities between its regions, by ensuring the protection of foreign investment and by resolving longstanding disputes. while i acknowledge the progress made in the restructuring of public enterprises, i believe that more needs to be done and that more transparency is needed in the privatisation process. finally, i note that corruption and organised crime still exist in the region, and that they represent a major obstacle to serbia's democratic, social and economic development. a database of investigations and prosecutions in corruption, including high-level corruption, should be established.
in writing. ‒ the report presented by mr mcallister mentions many important issues and touches on issues that are absolutely shared, such as the state of the judiciary, which is aggravated by backlogs and subject to political pressure; corruption, which is an absolutely persistent scourge; discrimination against vulnerable groups such as lgbti people and linguistic minorities; the necessary participation of civil society and the opposition in the political process and also in integration; the existence of a rhetoric that is still too militaristic. while i appreciate the realistic approach of the report, i cannot overlook the issue of relations with russia: the request to serbia to distance itself from moscow, calling on belgrade to align its foreign policy with that of the union, when there is no homogeneity of external action even among the member states today, led me to abstain on the final vote. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the measure because i believe that europe should applaud serbia's continued commitment to the european integration process. progress on a constructive approach to addressing the migration crisis, on economic reforms and on the business environment make serbia worthy of union support to pursue further reforms and to encourage the institutions to make greater efforts to progressively align its foreign and security policy with that of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the balkans have always been a very problematic area in the recent history of our continent. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe. in this context, the european union is well placed to stimulate reform processes that will enable countries to have free and functioning institutions on which to build a society that develops and rapidly reaches the level of neighbouring countries. and if opening accession negotiations is the answer, welcome. of course you are . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ serbia's progress in many areas of domestic and foreign policy is indicative of its willingness to become part of the union. this includes judicial reform, the fight against corruption and freedom of expression and press, although there are still limitations to the full implementation of reforms needed to be in line with eu policies. i have decided to vote in favour of serbia continuing on the path of accession it has embarked on by implementing european values in its national legislation and continuing to work to improve cooperation in the region, in particular with kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the situation in serbia in a consistent and realistic way, pointing out shortcomings alongside improvements, in particular: the judicial system, still subject to political pressure and burdened by backlogs; corruption; discrimination against vulnerable groups; the need for greater participation of civil society and the opposition in decision-making processes; shortcomings in respect of freedom of expression and the media; the need to bring war crimes trials to justice, so as to guarantee truth and compensation to the families of the victims. less shared aspects are: the importance of business in the normalization of the neighbourhood in the balkans and the facilitation of privatization which could affect the emphasis on labour policies. the report is generally positive and the prospect of serbia and the other balkan countries joining the union remains desirable, but the call for serbia to distance itself from russia in order to avoid further manoeuvres to marginalize moscow, which remains and will have to return to being an indispensable interlocutor for the union, can only lead me to vote for abstention.
in writing. ‒ serbia has made considerable progress in the accession negotiations with the european union over the past year and has made important steps forward in the normalisation of relations with pristina. despite these achievements, the serbian authorities still need to do more to fight corruption and guarantee the freedom and independence of judges, prosecutors and the media from political influence. i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution to call on serbia to continue the reforms it has undertaken in the judicial field, in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. i wish to express my vote in favour of the resolution on the progress of the accession negotiations between the eu and serbia. i also agree with the passages in the adopted text which stress the progress made. i would like to speak, in particular as a member of the juri committee, on the situation in the judicial sector, which has been subject to reforms which will be crucial to continue to implement in order to ensure that serbia complies with the principles of the rule of law and the proper functioning of justice, with particular reference to judicial training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution, tabled following statements by the european council and the commission under article 123 (2) of the regulation, on the 2015 progress report on serbia. i think it is worthwhile to commend the efforts made to stabilise the country and the commitment to move forward on the road to european integration and to normalize relations with kosovo. at this stage of serbia's journey towards full participation in the european processes, it is necessary to help the country strengthen its economic governance, the rule of law and the state administrative system. a demonstration of the will to pursue this path is certainly supported by the progress made in the field of entrepreneurship, the labour market and employment support policies which are beginning to bear good fruit. however, several aspects of the country's political and social life remain of concern, such as the lack of progress on freedom of expression in the media and shortcomings in respect for human and minority rights. i therefore share the call on the serbian authorities to implement concrete measures to address these critical issues and to promote the full implementation of european values.
in writing. the european council decided on 28 june 2013 to open accession negotiations with serbia. the latter, like any country aspiring to eu membership, must be judged on its ability to meet, implement and comply with european legislation. the 2015 progress report of serbia shows that significant progress has been made towards european integration. we have seen progress in the business environment, the reduction of the budget deficit and the labour market, including labour law and employment policy. i also find it satisfactory that serbia is engaged in the process of normalising relations with kosovo. the development of an adequate legal and institutional framework for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is noteworthy, although progress is still needed in the fight against organised crime, the independence of the judiciary and the media. finally, in recognition of the efforts made by serbia, i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia, a country that aspires to become an eu member. two years after the commission reported on the excellent progress made by the country towards european integration, i would have voted in favour, expressing my admiration and support for the country.
in writing. ‒ with a view to its accession to the european union, serbia is making considerable progress towards meeting the community's requirements. in particular, the country has made important progress in the process of normalising relations with kosovo, a negotiated condition for eu membership. in recognition of serbia's progress towards eu membership, i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to continue to support the country by indicating areas in which it should operate. this path involves reforms that free the judiciary from political interference, as well as greater efforts to combat corruption, abuse of power and organised crime. in addition, the country must engage in a virtuous dialogue with civil society, the importance of which is underlined by the commission's call on the serbian government to conduct regular public consultations to ensure full transparency in the negotiations with the eu. there is still some concern about the involvement of parliament in legislative consultations, as the use of the urgency procedure for the adoption of laws is a common practice which, however, does not allow for the full exercise of democracy. serbia therefore still needs to fulfil many aspects and it is important that the union supports the government in this process.
in writing. ‒ the opening of the first negotiating chapters in the process of serbia's accession to the european union was welcomed by the european parliament. serbia has made important steps towards normalising relations with kosovo and has been able to deal with the migration crisis with great capacity. i hope that serbia will continue its systematic reforms so that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as that of the media, can be free from political influence and aimed at intensifying efforts to fight corruption and organised crime. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union must encourage those countries, such as serbia, that are making significant efforts in the right direction and recognise the results achieved. we must not forget the key role of the balkans, which is once again a gateway between east and west, a crossroads for thousands of migrants who are trying to cross it to reach europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today which sets out the progress made by serbia in the negotiation process for accession to the european union and the need to speed it up. given the particularly ambitious reform agenda that the country is planning to implement in the future, serbia needs our support in this process. the next short-term objectives of serbia are to strengthen the rule of law, fight corruption and create better living conditions for serbian society. as also highlighted in the resolution, it is essential that the country act quickly to improve the situation of media freedom and freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary from any interference by political power. these conditions are essential to a positive progress in the process of integration, in the knowledge that it could bring about a significant improvement in the serbian economy and consequently an improvement in the country's political stability.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr mcallister's report because i share the balanced assessment of serbia's progress towards the european union. the efforts made in recent years to implement economic and structural reform programmes are many and the commitment to a more efficient public administration, as well as the strengthening of the rule of law and the adoption of action plans for the normalisation of relations with kosovo, are commendable. serbia is also fully coping with the migration crisis, and is therefore an essential and collaborative partner of the eu in the balkans, and therefore it is essential that the union provides resources and appropriate financial support. it is important, however, that from the domestic point of view, serbia improves cooperation between the government and civil society organisations and increases the involvement of national minorities in the decision-making process.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. i strongly supported the report on serbia's progress in 2015. it was an important year because accession negotiations were launched with the opening of chapters 32 and 35 (which include the normalisation of relations with kosovo). despite progress, some gaps remain to be filled, in particular with regard to media freedom, freedom of expression, the lack of transparency in the funding of political parties. serbia must work to overcome these shortcomings and create an inclusive society for all, including minorities.
in writing. ‒ the report we voted on today analyses the situation in serbia in a coherent and realistic way, exposing the shortcomings of the system and listing the improvements that have been made. the focus is on the judicial system, which is still subject to political pressure; on corruption, rightly depicted as a persistent scourge; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. the committee also stressed the need to overcome the war-mongering rhetoric and to reach an agreement, also on the historical and cultural side, between the various countries involved in the balkan wars of the 1990s by giving judicial effect to the trials for war crimes, in order to guarantee truth and compensation to the families of the victims. relations with kosovo are described without false enthusiasm, welcoming the improvements but denouncing that there are still many steps to be taken. less agreeable aspects, besides the explicit attempt to distance serbia from russia without considering its effects in depth, are the importance given to business for the normalization of the neighborhood and the facilitation of privatization that could affect the emphasis given to labour policies. for these reasons i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report on serbia's progress in 2015 and join the call for the acceleration of the eu accession process. i am a strong supporter of the need to promote the integration of this country and i recognise the ambitious reform programme that has been launched. it is now more necessary than ever that serbia strengthen the rule of law, make substantial progress in the fight against corruption and create the conditions for a better everyday life for serbian citizens. i would like to conclude by urging the commission to speed up the accession process initiated with belgrade, while at the same time urging the balkan country to make further efforts to resolve crucial problems, first and foremost respect for the rights of minorities, with particular reference to those of the roma community.
in writing. ‒ kosovo has recently declared its independence from serbia, but the latter and some 50 un nations still do not recognise it as a sovereign state. kosovo is still far from european integration, but there are small steps forward in social policies and the judicial system. the main problems are related to freedom of the press, non-discrimination against minorities, youth unemployment and respect for and protection of the historical heritage of pritzen. i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution because the union can play an important role in improving the living conditions of the people of kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo in october 2015 was an important step towards the country's ever closer participation in the project of stabilising and integrating the balkan area into the european dimension. the process of normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia is further confirmation of kosovo's willingness to play a leading role in a wide-ranging political change in the various areas of foreign and domestic policy. i voted in favour of the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo because i believe that the republic of kosovo's commitment in the legal, constitutional and social fields should be given greater weight. although there are still many criticisms, particularly in the area of freedom of expression and civil society participation in decision-making processes and political life, progress is evident in the fight against international terrorism. the strengthening of the market economy remains a priority in which the package of support for reforms and regional cooperation in the western balkans, promoted by the commission, can provide valuable support.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote is unbalanced and has several criticisms, so i did not intend to support it.
in writing. ‒ how can one support the candidacy, or at least the progress of the eu accession negotiations, of a country where, according to security experts, at least 300 jihadists have returned after fighting since 2011 in the ranks of the islamic state in syria and iraq. it is also known that more than 150 kosovar islamic extremists are fighting in syria alongside the jihadist formations of the islamic state, including 42 women. a country that is in the grip of corruption, crime and, indeed, terrorism, is totally out of control. the resolution is concerned with protecting and giving more rights to the roma community. for the sake of charity, everyone does what he wants at home, but why not remember the christian churches destroyed in the kosovar cities, why not also protect the christian community in kosovo? these are some of the reasons why i am voting against the resolution. i also ask: in the light of the above, does the high representative not consider it appropriate to suspend all accession negotiations with this country?
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the progress made by kosovo, especially in the normalisation of relations with serbia, represents important steps towards the balkan country's accession to the european union. the prospect of the balkan countries joining the european union is one of the main factors for stability in the region and must therefore be supported by both european and national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which calls on the member states which have not yet recognised the republic of kosovo to take action in this direction. it welcomed the work of the kosovo authorities on the visa liberalisation action plan and urged the commission to step up work on kosovo's visa liberalisation process by supporting further discussions on the conclusion of a framework agreement allowing kosovo to participate in eu programmes (including access to eu funds). it also expressed concern at the very limited progress made in the area of freedom of expression and media freedom over the past year. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup in iraq, and called on the council to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup in iraq.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution today because i am convinced that kosovo's european integration process is on the right track. the signing of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement of 27 october 2015 paves the way for kosovo's eu integration and will provide a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, allowing for cooperation with the eu in a wide range of areas, in order to intensify political dialogue and enhance trade integration, as well as to intensify relations with neighbouring countries and contribute to the stability of the region. i regret, however, the current violent obstructionism in this house. the unimpeded conduct of parliamentary business is the prerequisite for the implementation of all aspects of kosovo's reform programme. all political actors should resume political dialogue in order to find a solution that restores the functioning of the kosovo assembly. finally, i am concerned about the lack of progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime. i call on the authorities to adopt a comprehensive and strategic approach to combating endemic corruption, which continues to represent a major obstacle to kosovo's democratic, social and economic development.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the situation in kosovo in its process of european integration and focuses on the following elements: the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are still a serious problem for the kosovo system; the judicial system, which has improved but is still subject to political pressure; the very high level of youth unemployment; non-discrimination and the protection of minorities. the report as a whole is very good, with some doubts about certain aspects, and my final vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i considered it necessary to vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on kosovo. i am convinced that the stabilisation and association agreements (saas) have set a clear path for kosovo's eu integration and provide a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, allowing for cooperation with the eu in a wide range of areas in order to intensify political dialogue and strengthen trade integration, as well as to intensify relations with neighbouring countries and contribute to the stability of the region.
in writing. ‒ i like to point out that mother teresa of calcutta was born in kosovo, whereas the popular imagination associates this handkerchief with the bombings of 1999 and the fighting between albanians and serbs. i am glad to see that this state is slowly overcoming its problems and is trying to build on the rubble, even signing an agreement with the eu. i look forward to looking at the map of europe and saying about the balkans what i would have said about the countries of the former iron curtain and never imagined i would have said 30 years ago. i voted in favour of this resolution in that hope.
in writing. ‒ having voted in favour of the saa at the previous plenary session, which was the first step towards the integration of kosovo, which would later become an association agreement, i voted in favour of it again on this occasion, as it is necessary to support kosovo's policies aimed at harmonising its internal legislation and external action in line with european guidelines. in order to achieve this objective in a reasonable time and in a manner consistent with the democratic practice of the union, i hope that the states which are resisting kosovo's integration will change their attitude and opt for cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the situation of kosovo in its process of european integration. as greens we find a great deal of attention with regard to: combating poverty and promoting social policies, which are tools to tackle both the root causes of extremism and migration problems; freedom of expression and reporting on violence against dissenting journalists. non-discrimination and the protection of minorities; the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are presented as scourges that still seriously affect the kosovo system; the judicial system, which has improved but is still subject to political pressure; respect for the historical heritage of prizren, denouncing the building abuse that puts it at risk; the social calamity of the very high level of youth unemployment. not all aspects of the report are positive and some doubts remain about some aspects but, taken as a whole, my vote can only be favourable if the objective is to safeguard an improvement in the living conditions of the kosovar population and to accompany the country on its path towards (distant) eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution, it focuses on non-priority issues.
in writing. ‒ the detente climate and the progress made in normalising relations between serbia and kosovo are certainly positive. we all remember the horrors of the war in the balkans in the 1990s. it is essential that belgrade and pristina continue the dialogue and implement in a timely manner the agreements reached so far, in order to stabilise the area once and for all.
in writing. i strongly supported the text presented by mrs lunacek on the eu-kosovo negotiations. it is essential for the stability of the entire balkan area and to respond to the many regional challenges that are currently open (refugee emergency, energy, fight against terrorism) that europe's influence is firm and contributes to strengthening internal governance in kosovo. a few months ago europe signed the stabilisation and association agreement with pristina. this instrument is a powerful incentive for the implementation of reforms, allowing for the strengthening and broadening of cooperation with the eu in many areas. with this vote we are giving a signal of support for reforms and regional cooperation in the western balkans, in the hope that progress towards the rule of law and stability in the country will continue throughout the term of office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution, tabled following statements by the council and the commission under article 123 (2) of the regulation, on the 2015 progress report on kosovo. in the light of the approval of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement by the european parliament at the last plenary session, i believe it is necessary to provide the country with all the necessary assistance in order to enable the small balkan state to embark on the road to european integration. the republic of kosovo has made gradual progress in recent years in the legal and social spheres through the adoption of important legislation on human rights, respect for minorities, gender equality and lgbti people, which we hope will soon give concrete results on society and culture. despite kosovo being in its early stages of economic development, i welcome the tentative progress in industry and smes and in the implementation of policies to encourage entrepreneurship and growth. i would like to stress, however, my concern that there are still many gaps, particularly in the area of freedom of expression and the treatment of the press and the issue of civil society participation in the country's political life.
in writing. the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa), signed on 27 october 2015 and ratified by the assembly of kosovo on 2 november 2015, aims to promote european standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, as well as to create a free trade area as a concrete step towards kosovo's economic integration into the eu. i decided to vote in favour because, in addition to the various progresses in these areas, the adoption of the human rights legislative package, which strengthens the institutional framework for monitoring the protection and respect of human rights, was welcomed. the eu puts the rule of law at the heart of its enlargement policy and it is certainly fair to say that there have been several efforts in this direction. however, i believe that much remains to be done in areas such as freedom of expression and the media, the rights of all ethnic minorities, and to step up the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ in adopting this report, we welcome the signing of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement on 27 october, which we believe will provide a strong impetus for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, allowing for cooperation with the eu in a wide range of areas, in order to intensify political dialogue and strengthen trade integration. the commission's aid package is intended to support the process of political and economic reform in kosovo, as well as to promote european standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and to create a free trade area as a concrete step towards closer economic integration into the eu. we encourage all political forces to act constructively in the interests of the country, its democratic institutions and its citizens. in particular, we welcome the adoption of the gender equality law and call on the kosovar authorities to address gender mainstreaming as a priority and to ensure that governing bodies and authorities set a good example. we must highlight the low representation of women in decision-making positions, as well as the lack of progress in the fight against domestic and gender-based violence.
in writing. ‒ on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia, a country that aspires to become an eu member. two years after the commission reported on the excellent progress made by the country towards european integration, i would have voted in favour, expressing my admiration and support for the country.
in writing. ‒ the union's external action to support kosovo's economic and political development and the commission's package on regional cooperation are a key element in the normalisation of relations with the western balkan countries and are moving in the right direction towards greater integration of kosovo into the eu. as a market economy in the early stages of its development, union support is essential to enable the country to boost its economy and reverse the unemployment curve, which particularly affects young people and women. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the union must continue to support kosovo in the reform process, in line with the stabilisation and association agreement. the implementation of all aspects of the agreement must be carried out in full respect of the rule of law, and it is also important that the member states, 23 out of 28 at present, recognise the independence of the country. the eu will continue to support the implementation of the eu-led migration strategy, including the implementation of the eu-led migration strategy, the eu-led migration strategy and the eu-led migration strategy.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kosovo association agreement, ratified by the european parliament on 21 january 2016, provides a powerful incentive for reforms and paves the way for kosovo's integration into the european union. moreover, recognition of the country by other states could help to strengthen stability in the region, further facilitate the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo and enhance the eu's credibility in its foreign and neighbourhood policy. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the process of kosovo's integration into the european union, which comes after the european parliament ratified the recently concluded eu-kosovo association and stabilisation agreement. the agreement contains important incentives for the implementation and institutionalisation of the reforms needed to enable the country to move forward in the process of approximation to the european union. among the reforms indicated, the process of stabilising relations between kosovo and serbia, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reduction of discrimination and the guarantee of media independence are particularly relevant. kosovo also faces a number of economic problems, including low competitiveness, a shadow economy and a high unemployment rate, which requires a significant effort and international support to overcome. i believe that greater recognition of kosovo's integration policies can help to normalise relations between serbia and kosovo and thus to strengthen stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ the integration of the balkans into the european union is a necessary step for our future. the european union has a historical and moral obligation to its balkan neighbours. but kosovo still has a long way to go in this respect. it is up to the european institutions to monitor and evaluate its progress, providing support but remaining firm on the principles of respect for minorities and human rights.
in writing. ‒ this report analyses the situation of kosovo in its european integration process. we find a great deal of attention on the fight against poverty and the emphasis given to social policies, to the tools that tackle both the extremist currents and the migration problems at their roots, to freedom of expression and the reporting of violence against dissenting journalists and to non-discrimination and the protection of minorities. the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are presented as a scourge that still seriously affects the kosovar system, is also reiterated. the judicial system, despite considerable improvements, is still subject to strong political pressure. another topic rightly touched upon in this report is youth unemployment. although not all aspects of the report are positive and some doubts still remain about certain aspects, my vote was in favour, also considering that the objective of the report is to safeguard the improvement of the living conditions of the kosovar population and to accompany the country on its path towards eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the process of integration of kosovo. i believe it is important to strengthen kosovo's link with the union and i believe that the stabilisation and association agreement signed on 27 october 2015 will give a strong impetus to the implementation of fundamental reforms for the country. i particularly agree with the reference to the progress made in relations with serbia and i hope that both countries will move swiftly towards a full normalisation of their relations. i would like to conclude by urging the kosovo government to continue with determination the reform process it has begun, in particular by fighting corruption and organised crime, by making a firm commitment to preventing all forms of discrimination and by ensuring an adequate level of media independence.
in writing. ‒ since 2011, the libyan territory has been the scene of a bloody civil war that continues to bring the country's population and economy to its knees. according to the world report 2015, published by human rights watch, 2.44 million people are currently in need of protection and various forms of humanitarian assistance. the humanitarian emergency is further aggravated by the strong political instability that characterises the transitional institutions, which are supported by the international community but opposed by the power and unrest of local militias. the spread of terrorist groups has also worsened the political, social and humanitarian situation in the country, making european intervention essential. although the resolution we have tabled deals with important issues, i believe that the eu should devise a more forceful strategy, categorically condemning individual intervention by member states as well as the creation of additional national armed forces for the control of the territory. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the end of colonel gaddafi's regime did not mark the beginning of a smooth path to democracy in libya. the prolongation of the civil war, the persistence of regional divisions with the conflict between tripolitania and cyrenaica, the presence of tribal ties and finally the establishment of terrorist groups on libyan territory have constituted and continue to constitute major obstacles to the process of stabilizing and securing the country. the recent political agreement signed in december 2015 was undoubtedly a key turning point, laying the groundwork for the start of the peace process. i supported and signed the resolution on the situation in libya to reiterate europe's support for this difficult path undertaken by the two bodies representing the libyan people. the appointment of a government of national unity can be a great opportunity to consolidate democracy in the country and limit the risks of expansion of instability throughout the southern mediterranean area. the eu must strongly support the agreements and provide all possible assistance, particularly in the areas of humanitarian aid and the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ while identifying the right issues and challenges to address the libyan situation, which puts us in front of the spread of terrorism and an increasingly uncontrolled destabilisation of the area, it identifies solutions that i do not share and that would not lead to improvements. that is why i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the current situation in libya is a major factor of instability for the whole mediterranean, maghreb and mashreq region and, consequently, for europe. i am therefore convinced that the european union must do its utmost to try to support the libyan people and to find a solution that will bring peace to the country.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because it correctly considers the problems and challenges that the situation in libya presents us with, but it identifies wrong solutions. the imposition of a government not shared by the parties but supported by external international actors poses major democratic problems. the threat of imposing sanctions on local authorities and personalities who do not accept such a government is the opposite of democratic confrontation (the tripoli faction belongs to the islamic brotherhood and has imposed its control over the population of that part of the territory by force and the use of barbaric religious extremism). the objective is clear: the usual globalist and financial circles want to get their hands on libya's resources bypassing the libyan people. there is a problem in libya, as the european parliament has also recognised, but we have other solutions, such as military cooperation with the recognised libyan army to stem the advance of isis, targeted bombing of the areas occupied by terrorists, joint coastal patrols and the establishment of a transitional government which will really stop the clandestine invasion of europe and which will really respect the will of the libyan people and not the ambitions of international economic powers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya. the resolution underlined the importance of the signing of the libyan political agreement on the formation of a government of national accord (gna) as the sole legitimate government of libya, an event which represents a unique opportunity for a democratic civil state through national consensus. only then can libya begin to recover from a situation that is now unsustainable and to remedy the suffering of its people. the house of representatives and its presidency should continue in this direction and commit themselves to supporting the government of national accord. once the agreement is consolidated, there will be the opportunity to consolidate the rule of law, to fight terrorism more vigorously, to improve the human rights situation and to tackle the phenomenon of migration in a determined way. in order to facilitate the establishment of the new government of national accord, the european union and its member states must continue to cooperate with the libyan authorities and develop a coordinated package of measures to support them. the resolution has highlighted these elements and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ economic disintegration and violence in libya are allowing extremist organisations to flourish, not to mention that the ongoing conflicts on libyan soil are also destabilising the sahel region. with this report, on which i voted in favour, the european parliament calls for the eu and the international community to continue to provide humanitarian, financial and political assistance to deal with the plight of internally displaced persons and refugees and with the plight of civilians facing the interruption of access to basic services. the european parliament also supports the newly formed government of national accord and the national institutions which are to lead libya towards a post-revolutionary transition, putting it back on the path towards building a democratic, peaceful, stable and prosperous country. this is the priority objective, bombing and deploying our armies would only end up rallying the islamic militias around the catalyst of daesh and we cannot allow the catastrophe of a mindless emergency war to fall on us again.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that economic recovery is an essential stage for a democratic transition in libya and in any case for its political stabilisation, objectives which to date seem far from being achieved. as a key player in the mediterranean basin, the union should therefore be ready to provide immediate support in areas that will be considered as priority, in conjunction with the new libyan government of national accord once it is in place. if this does not happen in the time that europe and the world are expecting, the already dire and unsustainable situation of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees in libya will inevitably continue to worsen.
in writing. - i'm very concerned about the situation in libya. the more so because of the way relations with our country have developed in the last days of gaddafi. we have a special bond with them and that places a responsibility on us, while i must admit that in the past perhaps some careless mistakes were made and we are now paying the consequences. i appreciated the tone and the intention of this resolution, which i voted in favour of, because i believe that libya is one of the key nodes for stabilising the area, combating the advance of the islamic state, and solving the migration problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya because i believe that the level of cooperation with all eu and un missions in the country needs to be increased in order to achieve greater stability in the country. libya is currently in trouble not only because of internal political rivalries but also because of the infiltration of daesh into the country, which is raising considerable concerns. libya is only a few miles from italy and so it is important to give all possible support to the operations currently under way and to consider new strategies to achieve effective results in the shortest possible time to avoid repercussions in europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the situation in libya which expresses grave concern at the decision of the tobruk parliament to reject the composition of the national unity government proposed by prime minister al-sarraj. the european union is also calling on the libyan authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the un-backed marrakesh agreements are implemented. at this very delicate time, the european union and its representatives will need to continue to work with steadfastness and determination to guide libya towards a political transition, with a view to creating a new and lasting institutional framework. the eu institutions' efforts will have to focus on assisting in the reform of the justice system and the security sector, including the creation of a police and military force capable of ensuring territorial control. the libyan people urgently need a united government and stable institutions that are capable of addressing the delicate challenges that have been destabilizing the entire country for several years: firstly, the spread of daesh and of numerous extremist movements. a safer and more democratic libya will be one of the key elements for the security of the entire mediterranean and middle east region.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the libyan political agreement reached on 17 december last which provided for the creation of a government of national unity with the task of guiding libya towards the construction of a democratic, peaceful and stable state. the continued and growing presence of extremist organisations and movements in libya is, however, extremely worrying, not only for the stability of the country but also for the repercussions that the civil war is having on the security of neighbouring states. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the international community to continue to provide humanitarian, financial and political assistance to deal with the dangerous situation in libya.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite the fact that the resolution raises the correct issues concerning libya, it proposes different actions to our positions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the libyan political agreement signed on 17 december 2015 which supports the newly formed government of national accord and the national institutions that are to lead libya towards a post-revolutionary transition, putting it back on the path of building a peaceful, stable country. it is time for the international community to realize the mistakes of the past and support the libyan people's efforts in the peace and stabilization process.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the joint resolution on the situation in libya, because i believe that the political agreement signed last december by the representatives of the parliaments in tripoli and tobruk represents a fundamental starting point for the stabilisation of libya. after years of civil war, the government of national unity, which has been formed in recent weeks, is in urgent need of support from the international community and, in particular, from the eu, because it is really the only hope for a lasting peace and the only way out of the democratic transition in the country. isis continues to gain ground and it is just this hour that thousands of foreign fighters are pouring into the city of sirte. this is an urgent threat, including to the security of europe itself, and it is therefore to be hoped that the government will be installed swiftly and that the eu will give it all the necessary support. the road to rebuilding the country will certainly be long and not without difficulties: the restoration of state structures, the consolidation of the rule of law, the improvement of the human rights situation and the phenomenon of migration are all ambitious and far-reaching challenges.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of the government of national unity is the result of the process of attempts by the international community to eliminate the divisions between the two parliaments and create a single government. only some members of the two parliaments accepted the peace process, while others opposed it in a sometimes violent manner. the risk today is that there will be a political inertia that will not be able to cope with the danger posed by the libyan crisis. but if europe is far away, italy is near. we're only a few hundred nautical miles from the libyan border. resolving this situation is therefore a matter of national security for me. i would have voted in favour of it for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the recent events in libya have thrown the country into utter chaos. the failure of the house of representatives in tobruk to ratify the political agreement supported by the international community, which provides for a government of understanding with tripoli, increases the difficulties in conducting an inclusive reconciliation process. the resulting dangerous political vacuum has dramatic economic and humanitarian consequences, as the terrorist groups is and al-qaeda expand by appropriating the oil resources which should be enjoyed by the libyan population, now torn apart and on the run, and use the vast arsenal of weapons present in the country despite the embargo. understanding the libyan scenario means, however, being aware of the responsibilities of the international community, from the 2011 nato intervention in complete violation of international law, to the european union's foreign policy including the eubaum migrants management mission, which has resulted in a militarization of borders. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is urgent to analyse the mistakes made and to propose new strategies which make use of humanitarian and civilian assistance, which urge the parties involved to respect their obligations under international humanitarian law and which call on neighbouring states to cooperate in order to implement inclusive strategies.
in writing. ‒ the growing presence of terrorist organisations and extremist movements in libya has become the main threat to the stability and security of the entire mediterranean region. following the fall of gaddafi, libya became a transit country for human trafficking. the political conflicts within the country are also contributing to the destabilisation of the sahel region, allowing extremist organisations to grow. a secure and politically stable libya is absolutely necessary not only for libyan citizens, but also for the security of the entire region and the european union as a whole. for this reason, i am in favour of the formation of a government of national unity, backed by the consensus of the different political factions, which can lead libya towards a post-revolutionary transition, capable of enabling the construction of a democratic, peaceful and stable country.
in writing. ‒ it is crucial to stabilize the situation in the country, to stem the flow of migrants and the illegal activities of the scaffolders, to curb the enlistment of new isis troops, to set a good example for other international institutions to move to resolve a situation that is totally out of control.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya, which seeks to support the signing of the libyan political agreement with a view to the formation of a government of national unity, as the only legitimate government of libya. after a year of negotiations, the political agreement was finally signed last december and provides the necessary framework for the various political parties involved to reach a compromise to establish the national government. the challenges facing the libyan government, once formed, are many and serious: to rebuild government institutions and consolidate the rule of law, to combat terrorism and trafficking in human beings, and to ensure respect for human rights in the context of migration. that is why, with the resolution adopted today, we offer not only the european union and the international community's support for the efforts of the libyan political forces to achieve the goal of forming a government of national unity, but also a commitment to support its action once it has been established.
in writing. ‒ it is very encouraging that on the libyan issue there is a very high degree of convergence between all the countries represented on the need to consolidate the open negotiating process. the risk is that daesh will increase its presence and terrorist activities in libya, which is why the european union, the member states and all the main international actors must ensure full cooperation with the new libyan government in various fields, in particular security. the key is a political process, a government of national unity that has the support of parliament and works with the international community to stabilize the area.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my great satisfaction at the adoption of the resolution on the situation in libya. i welcome with confidence the signing of the political agreement to form a government of national unity and i believe that this is an important first step towards restoring peace and security in the country. it is now essential that the parties concerned proceed swiftly with the implementation of the agreement and i hope that a sense of responsibility and inclusion will prevail over the conflicting interests of each faction. in conclusion, i renew the great confidence in the work of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i am sure that with the appropriate support of all member states, you will be able to coordinate the support and aid to libya in an appropriate manner.
in writing. ‒ article 174 tfeu recognises the reduction of regional disparities in social, economic and environmental terms as a fundamental objective of the eu. the development of the territorial characteristics not only contributes to the enrichment of europe's economic and cultural heritage, but also fits perfectly into the strategies of cohesion policies. the european union's support is essential and a priority, given that, unfortunately, the natural handicaps of some mediterranean islands are compounded by economic difficulties and the complexity of managing the flow of migrants. in fact, to fully achieve the objectives of development, growth and jobs, the eu should promote coordinated action and the development of vertical strategies involving all levels of government. for these reasons i voted in favour, because i strongly believe that ensuring the harmonious development of the islands can be an opportunity and a means of growth at local and european level.
in writing. ‒ the european islands represent a common heritage in terms of biodiversity and culture within the union. these areas, which are often located on the borders of the european union, are particularly vulnerable to problems of energy supply, demographic trends, climate change and, in particular, migration flows. my support for the resolution on island status is based on the conviction that strong action is needed to end the disadvantages suffered by the islands and to ensure the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion policies. the commission should develop a genuine 'union strategic framework for the islands' linking all instruments that can have a significant impact on the territory. the potential of europe's islands must be exploited, ensuring the development of sustainable tourism systems alongside seasonal tourism, while at the same time not losing sight of the great opportunities offered by islands as sources of alternative energy such as ocean, wind and solar.
in writing. ‒ island regions need special protection, given the greater difficulties they face in accessing services compared to mainland areas. so far, there have been shortcomings in the provision of such protection by the european institutions to these disadvantaged areas. i therefore share the objective of this report in bringing this issue to the eu's attention and i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the insularity and its characteristics are evidence that the european institutions cannot ignore, but that they must work to find solutions to compensate for the disadvantages that insularity brings with it compared to continental regions.
in writing. ‒ the european union has several island regions which, in accordance with article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), are classified as nuts-2 and nuts-3 regions because they have common characteristics and specificities of a permanent nature which clearly distinguish them from regions situated on the mainland. the european union therefore recognises that these regions, because of their shape and geographical location, suffer from specific disadvantages which require specific attention. in the light of the above, the commission considers that the aid should be limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. we believe that this decision is wrong and problematic and that the commission should clarify which specific instruments and resources under cohesion policy it intends to make available to offset the disadvantages arising from the insularity of these territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on regional development, which was based on a question on the implementation of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because it is clear to everyone that the european commission has not implemented the provisions of that article in the slightest. both island and mountain regions have difficult access to services. the merit of this resolution is to raise the issue and to underline that the objectives of cohesion should also pass through greater protection of the human presence on the islands. this principle certainly seems to be in contradiction with the strict rules against state aid which are faced by the managers who in these territories would like to promote air and sea links (see the ryanair, saremar and tirrenia cases in sardinia). the logic of the free market must therefore be balanced with the need for island and continental citizens to be able to travel without problems and without particular expense. in the case of sardinia, we can clearly say that the member state in question is also guilty of serious faults, having invested very little in recent years to remove the obstacles arising from the principle of insularity.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the status of the islands. the resolution stressed that the common specific characteristics of a permanent nature clearly distinguish island regions from those on the mainland and that the condition of being an island presents permanent natural and geographical disadvantages. the resolution stresses the need to support the balanced territorial development of island regions by promoting innovation and competitiveness in these regions, which are located at great distances from the main administrative and economic centres and which do not have easy access to transport. the resolution stresses the importance of support measures to counter the significant trend towards depopulation of island regions and calls on the european commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the additional costs of insularity in terms of transport systems for people and goods, energy supply and market access, particularly for smes. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolutions.
in writing. ‒ the eu, through article 174 tfeu, recognises the disadvantages of island regions which hamper their development and prevent them from achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion. the text calls on the commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the additional costs of insularity in terms of transport systems for passengers and goods and energy supply, and in terms of market access, particularly for smes. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ reducing the gap between the levels of development of european regions is the main objective of cohesion policy, which, as stated in article 174 of the lisbon treaty, is directed above all to the less-favoured areas, including the islands. however, the peripherality of these areas can become an added value for europe, particularly in relation to the production of alternative energy or the protection of biodiversity. cohesion policy has not so far given the right space to these areas, for which a section should be devoted to addressing the specificities and permanent disadvantages linked to their geographical location. i therefore find it most appropriate that parliament should call for the creation of an island office and a european agenda for island regions, all areas for which cohesion policy funds should be used to initiate and launch development processes adapted to the needs and requirements of these territories. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the gap which still exists between the regions of europe can only be closed by policies and measures which are more closely linked to the needs and natural developmental vocations of these specific areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the island status which i tabled and which i strongly supported. the union's islands are peripheral territorial areas at the external borders of the eu and are particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing europe, such as globalisation, demographic change, climate change, energy supply and exposure to illegal immigration. the european islands contribute to the diversity of the union, both from an environmental and cultural point of view. the european islands can contribute to strengthening the union's sustainable development, given their high potential for producing energy from renewable sources by virtue of their privileged exposure to wind, sea and sun. we strongly urge the commission, in the substantial application of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to give concrete recognition to the status of insularity by creating, for classification purposes, a homogeneous grouping including all island territories. i hope that the commission will assess the islands of europe as a homogeneous group of regions which deserve ad hoc regional development programmes, and will endeavour to develop statistical indicators which will more accurately measure the disadvantages of island status, and not merely take account of rigid statistical indicators measured as a percentage of gdp.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased to have voted in favour of this resolution, which is the result of a concerted effort to support my colleague salvatore cicu, the real architect of this political document. it is time for someone to come along and put something in black and white that is in plain sight of everyone except the european bureaucrats: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. it is said that when, at the end of the second world war, italy voted in the famous referendum to keep the monarchy or go to the republic, the sardinian ballot papers were thrown into the sea to distort the result in favor of the republic, since sardinia was expected, after the stripping that would take place in rome, a strongly pro-monarchist vote. salvatore cicu, to his credit, has been able to make it clear with this resolution that the will of the sardinian people will never again be ignored or trampled underfoot. congratulations on a job well done!
in writing. ‒ i agree with some of my colleagues who, during the debate, highlighted the need to review the priorities within the strategic framework for future programming. the commission has so far proposed measures for the outermost regions, completely ignoring the situation of the islands, which are marginalised not only geographically but also economically and socially. there is no regional continuity, which means a lack of services and competition, a strain on smes, and an environment hostile to low-cost companies and multinationals. i therefore hope that the commission will pay more attention to the situation of the islands, including through the provision of specific funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to call on the european commission to outline concrete measures for the permanent disadvantages faced by european islands. the adoption of this resolution is an important step for our major italian islands, sicily and sardinia, because they are recognised as 'islands'. this recognition will give the two islands the opportunity to have greater opportunities in terms of european resources and funds.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report, which calls for greater attention to be paid to island regions and mountain areas.
in writing. ‒ the recognition by the european parliament of the insularity of the italian islands as a structural deficit situation requiring appropriate economic corrections is an important step in the battle for the italian islands. i congratulate my colleagues, and in particular my colleague salvatore cicu, on their efforts and tenacity. it is important now to act in the budget chapters of regional policy so that the island status is also supported financially.
in writing. the economic crisis has severely limited the availability of finance in many sectors, leading to a collapse in public investment. this has had a serious impact on the development of many disadvantaged regions, especially the islands. i have therefore decided to give my full support to this motion for a resolution calling for favourable measures which take account of the specific characteristics of the islands and the territorial discontinuity. our first objective must be to exploit the synergies between the different european resources, to develop our infrastructure and to improve our links in terms of air, rail and sea transport. we must be able to use the funds available effectively, within a strategic vision, and not to plug budgetary holes. only under these conditions can the revival of our territories begin.
in writing. ‒ on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia, a country that aspires to become an eu member. two years after the commission reported on the excellent progress made by the country towards european integration, i would have voted in favour, expressing my admiration and support for the country.
in writing. ‒ island regions, classified at community level as nuts-2 and nuts-3 regions, share common characteristics and specificities which distinguish them clearly from regions situated on the mainland. article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) recognises that they suffer from specific disadvantages requiring specific attention. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to ask the commission to provide a clear definition of the type of permanent natural or demographic handicaps, within the meaning of article 174 tfeu, to which island regions are considered to be exposed. it would be desirable to launch a thorough analysis of the additional costs incurred by islands, such as those related to the transport system or energy supply, and to establish a 'european strategic framework for islands' which provides for a set of concrete instruments that could have a strong territorial impact. the islands of the european union are also very often peripheral regions situated at the eu's external borders and therefore particularly exposed to the arrival of migratory flows. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to maintain the special tax schemes designed to offset not only their permanent geographical disadvantages but also the costs of the large-scale migration phenomena which are taking place.
in writing. ‒ the resolution voted today is based on the need to respect the specificities of each country and region. the island areas, by their very nature, have different geographical conditions than the others, which means that they also have different needs, and for this reason the legislation must take account of these specificities. in this text we ask the commission to review the objectives for the island territories, to provide for greater synergy between the structural funds and the other instruments made available by the eu and to establish an eu strategic framework for the islands.
in writing. ‒ island regions share common characteristics and specificities which clearly distinguish them from regions on the mainland. however, the european union has so far made little effort to adapt its policies to take account of the unique difficulties many islands face in competing successfully with the mainland. i am referring in particular to disadvantages such as accessibility to services, higher prices due to transport costs, difficult access to the single market, lack of infrastructure, vulnerability to environmental risks, scarcity of raw materials and protection against illegal immigration. all these challenges that islands face on a permanent basis have not yet been adequately addressed by european legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the report because it calls for the difficulties of insularity to be recognised and for all possible synergies between the european structural and investment funds and the other instruments of the union to be exploited. i hope that by improving existing policies and using available resources more efficiently, island regions can overcome their obstacles in terms of economic growth, job creation and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on insularity, which contains some recommendations to deal with the problems associated with it, such as economic and social vulnerability, the additional costs incurred for transport, energy supply and access to markets. as the elected representative of two island regions, i believe it is necessary to support the islands, which have greater difficulties than other regions in overcoming a physiological developmental delay and in pursuing growth in line with the objectives of european cohesion policy. the priority issues include the remoteness of the main production centres and the difficulty of accessing the large european networks, but also the problems linked to the migratory flows to which many mediterranean islands are exposed. instruments such as special tax schemes previously granted to certain island regions are useful tools for counteracting the natural and demographic handicaps of island regions. i am convinced that the handicap of insularity can be overcome by networking the islands immediately, i.e. by ensuring that they have access to digital, energy and transport networks. i therefore hope that the commission will give careful consideration to the proposals contained in this resolution and take concrete action in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy plays a key role in achieving european objectives by helping to create a growth process that enhances local realities. the introduction of incentive policies and cooperation between the european and local institutions will certainly help to reduce the economic, social and territorial disparities which currently exist between european states and their regions. in fact, adopting a more inclusive strategy can not only improve the quality of life of citizens, but above all make innovation and technology the most suitable tools to stimulate the european market and create new jobs. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european structural and investment funds (esif) are the main instrument of investment policy and a pillar of the european union's cohesion policy. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider the role of local and regional authorities to be fundamental in this field. the multi-level governance achieved by cohesion policy allows a good balance to be struck between eu objectives and the territorial impact of policies, while strengthening the democratic dimension of the community institutions. the commission will have to work in the coming years to strengthen the role of regional and local authorities in the management and implementation of the esi funds through partnership agreements and operational programmes.
in writing. ‒ i believe that local and regional authorities play a key role in ensuring that european funds bring real benefits to european citizens in the member states. i therefore support this text, which highlights the very important role of local governance in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the involvement of local and regional authorities in the esi funds is one of the main strengths of the administration and management of these funds and i am therefore convinced that their role must also be strengthened, and above all, by virtue of the greater knowledge of local needs they possess.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the european structural and investment funds (esif) are the main instrument of the european union's investment policy. it is necessary that the commission initiates a public consultation hopefully followed by coherent and effective action by the commission itself on how to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in eu cohesion policy and that local and regional authorities are effectively supported to strengthen their role and impact in relation to the management of the european structural and investment funds in the period 2014-2020, taking due account of their respective responsibilities and the specificities of the member states, in order to create sustainable economic growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it underlines the key role of local and regional authorities in defining and implementing eu strategies, while recognising a wide variety of stakeholders, from member states to participatory groups. i also believe that the proximity of these authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level are a strength of the eu. although the chapter on 'eu territorial cohesion' is very often an example of funding projects of dubious utility, i can only support one of the few formal calls by the european parliament for the importance of 'local' governance, calling for greater territorial capacity in the use of these instruments.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the key role of local and regional authorities in defining and implementing eu strategies. i believe that the proximity of these authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level are a strength of the eu. our municipalities and regions must be allowed to negotiate, within a stable legal framework, investments in priority areas that are essential to the development of our societies, such as research and innovation, the transition to a low-carbon economy and social inclusion. for the policy to deliver, it is crucial that local and regional authorities are involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of programmes, for example by setting up joint task forces bringing together different levels of governance. strengthening the administrative capacity and addressing the structural weaknesses of local and regional authorities are key aspects of increasing the absorption rate of the european structural and investment funds. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that local and regional authorities and their administrations and institutions are supported in developing their capacities so that they can play a significant role in cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to reduce economic and social disparities between member states, in particular through the european structural and investment funds (esif), which bring together the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund (cf), the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). to this end, mrs mihaylova's report recognises the importance of multi-level governance which supports these objectives (economic growth, social progress and sustainable development) by strengthening the democratic dimension of the eu and increasing the effectiveness of its political action; so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ local authorities are the main beneficiaries of the structural and investment funds, which represent a real and tangible development opportunity for the economic revival of regions and municipalities. these are large and secure resources, allocated on the basis of the criteria laid down by cohesion policy. but very often these funds are not spent, not only because of administrative shortcomings, which have also affected some regions, but also because of the difficulty of achieving the objectives decided ex ante by the commission. the european parliament has repeatedly called for greater involvement of local authorities in the definition of objectives and priorities for growth, development and employment. in order to overcome the risk of not reaching the expenditure targets, it is essential that regions and municipalities participate actively in the objective setting phase in order to enable local authorities to present, on the basis of the difficulties encountered in the implementation phase, feasible priorities and objectives. next year will see the start of the process for the revision of cohesion policy post-2020 and it is therefore necessary to start thinking about greater involvement of local actors. i fully agree with the content of the resolution and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support the measure as i firmly believe that local and regional authorities should have a key role in defining and implementing eu strategies, as their proximity to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level are essential elements of a proper application of the principle of subsidiarity as expressed in the lisbon treaty. as regards the european structural investment funds (esi funds), i am absolutely in favour of synergies and complementarity between these funds and other eu programmes, where local and regional authorities can make a positive contribution to the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the european commission bases much of its work on the principle of subsidiarity, as laid down in the treaties. in other words, each issue should be addressed and resolved within the narrowest possible territorial framework which allows for an effective solution. however, until now the mechanisms for coordination and cooperation with smaller organisations (and therefore with smaller budgets) had not been defined, and this policy document is a step in this direction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in managing the european structural and investment funds, local and regional authorities play a key role in implementing the union's objective of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and ensuring an effective territorial impact of eu policies. the european commission needs to continue to improve the scope of the esi funds as an important instrument, including through public consultations, in order to identify measures to strengthen the role of regional and local authorities in the management and implementation of the funds for the period 2014-2020. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is one of the juncker commission's priority policy initiatives; the commission's proposal is a first important response to the economic situation, which the socialist and democratic group has supported since its presentation, and which will serve to boost european growth, create new jobs and promote greater social cohesion. in the context of the programming of investments financed by the commission, i believe that local and regional authorities can play a key role for a number of reasons: the commission's approach to the issue of the 'new approach' is based on the following principles: as the resolution i supported points out, local and regional governance will have to be actively involved in the process of preparing and implementing operational programmes, since it has the right skills to assess the territorial impact of these policies and to exploit their full potential. local and regional authorities provide invaluable added value in identifying with meticulousness and precision the real needs of territories, citizens and businesses: it will be important to provide them with the appropriate tools to provide this additional contribution to achieving the objectives of the efsi plan.
in writing. my administrative and political experience has given me a deep awareness of the fundamental role of local and regional authorities in their ability to relate to citizens and to know their needs. local authorities are the link between the needs of the territories and the response of political intervention and are in fact the first instrument through which the programme and political action can be put into practice. but to bring about projects and changes in the territory, local authorities need large financial resources. i therefore find the oral question to the commission absolutely agreeable, in the spirit of offering strong support to local and regional authorities, giving them full ownership in the identification of priorities and the programming of the structural funds and maximum protection, while trying to limit the redirection of even partial funds for cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the role of regional and local authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esif) because eu cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period is the main instrument of investment in the eu that european territories will benefit from (according to well-defined allocation rules) and aims at creating a sustainable bottom-up growth process aimed at job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation development at local level. local and regional authorities are facing new and important challenges, imposed by globalisation, climate change and the migration emergency. the process of legal rationalization which has been undertaken will enable cohesion policy to respond better than in the past to these important challenges. the strengthening of the administrative capacity of local and regional authorities is undoubtedly crucial, both in the planning and implementation phases of cohesion policy. the eu as a whole is in dire need of cohesion policy if it is to emerge from the crisis once and for all and become a growth area and attractive for non-european investors, as it is based on multi-level governance and allows the eu to achieve its fundamental policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution calling for greater involvement and support of regional and local authorities. they are the institutions closest to the citizens and the ones best able to understand and define their needs. their centrality is also defined at european level, thanks to the affirmation of the principle of subsidiarity, which enshrines the obligation of the institutions to take decisions as close as possible to the citizen. the local dimension must also be central to the european structural and investment funds. the european commission must consider further measures to support their action and to improve the management of the structural funds. if the commission were to intervene with additional measures, this could have a positive impact on economic growth and employment in the member states. finally, it is possible and desirable that the commission should consider launching a public consultation on the subject, in order to give voice to the citizens and their requests.
in writing. ‒ on 28 june 2013, the european council decided to open accession negotiations with serbia, a country that aspires to become an eu member. two years after the commission reported on the excellent progress made by the country towards european integration, i would have voted in favour, expressing my admiration and support for the country.
in writing. ‒ for the first time, a coherent framework, called the 'common provisions regulation' (cpr), has been created for the period 2014-2020, defining common rules for the five european structural and investment funds (esi funds): the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund (cf), the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) are all part of the same overall programme. it is important to identify measures to strengthen the role of regional and local authorities in the management and implementation of the esi funds through partnership agreements and operational programmes. this will enable local and regional authorities to strike a balance between the union's objective of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion on the one hand, and the particular needs of local communities on the other. in view of the importance of the role played by local authorities and the desire to strengthen the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ regional and local authorities, because of their proximity to citizens, have a better understanding of local needs and the policies and initiatives needed to foster development and growth. it is therefore strategic to support their increased involvement in all phases of the preparation and implementation of operational programmes, in order to increase the absorption rate of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and to achieve the eu's objectives of economic and territorial cohesion. i hope that a more efficient use of european funding will go hand in hand with a reduction in the structural weaknesses present in the programming phase. only through good multi-level governance can we help local and regional authorities to respond effectively to global challenges such as climate change, energy security, migration flows and increased urbanisation, as well as to address specific problems of administrative capacity and regulatory complexity. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the context of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), which are fundamental instruments in responding to the needs of citizens at local level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund and its impact on the overall budget of the union. while cohesion policy aims to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between member states and their regions, it is through an inclusive strategy that it can provide a real opportunity to create a sustainable growth process, to foster job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation in local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and greater development in eu regions.
in writing. ‒ yemen has been facing a very serious humanitarian crisis for months. food insecurity, malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, destruction of medical and civilian infrastructure are daily problems generated by the persistent state of internal warfare in the country. the presence of a large number of hybrid actors in the conflict does not facilitate the resolution of the conflict, but requires the cooperation of all the powers in the area, in particular saudi arabia and iran, to initiate the peace process. i signed and supported the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because i am convinced that only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution can guarantee the cessation of violence. the eu must commit itself to promoting respect for international humanitarian law and to fostering a new round of negotiations under the auspices of the un.
in writing. ‒ i intend to vote in favour of the resolution analysing the humanitarian emergency in yemen, which is largely caused by the massive presence of isis and the continuing conflict which has already claimed more than 5 700 lives, half of them civilians.
in writing. ‒ un special envoy ismail ould cheikh ahmed has been active in holding un-facilitated peace talks to mediate the difficult humanitarian situation due to the ongoing civil war in yemen. such mediation efforts must be supported because the humanitarian cost in terms of civilian casualties and the destruction of housing and production and trade facilities is now immense and beyond the reach of international organizations. military response cannot be the solution because all the efforts made so far by both the saudi coalition and the houthi rebels and their allies have only exacerbated the ongoing grave humanitarian crisis and allowed al-qaeda and daesh to strengthen their presence in the area and increase the effectiveness and scope of their terrorist actions, with obvious negative repercussions for both parties and the international community. the un mediation is needed to bring about a truce between the parties and an international humanitarian operation is needed to help the civilian population of yemen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it deals with the same issues as the ecr resolution, but in a more specific way, also explicitly considering that the humanitarian situation in yemen is caused by the strong presence of isis (which was not mentioned in the previous resolution).
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the resolution because i am firmly convinced that the only long-term solution to the humanitarian crisis in yemen is through inclusive political dialogue, in line with the framework provided by the gulf cooperation council initiative, the outcomes of the conference on national dialogue and the various conclusions of the un security council and the european council. the tragedy of the deaths of civilians and humanitarian workers in the country and the apparently indiscriminate attacks on civilian infrastructure, including hospitals and schools, must shake the conscience of european citizens and with them the institutions that represent them so that the necessary political pressure can be exerted to bring an end to the violence.
in writing. ‒ the news coming from yemen, although less resonant than those from syria and libya, is no longer reassuring. the situation there is different, the actors are different, but the country is destroyed on a humanitarian level. i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the problems and, while not compromising the powers of the european union in what happens within the borders of another sovereign state, it lays the foundations for future humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the ongoing conflict in yemen, which sees the yemeni authorities confronting the houthi rebels, there have been numerous violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, including possible repercussions that would seriously jeopardise the stability of the horn of africa, the red sea and the middle east. i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution condemning the violence and calling on iran, saudi arabia and all the yemeni parties to end their dispute through dialogue. it is necessary to consider that only a political agreement can lead to lasting peace.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the yemeni conflict is a complex and layered war, representative of the dynamics that, in recent years, are disrupting and reshaping the middle east. it is an unconventional war, where hybrid actors are confronted in an internal conflict, which today seems to be solvable only through a wider regional agreement. the people of the country are shocked by a serious humanitarian crisis, which has been going on for months now and which the european union is dealing with. for its action to be more effective, humanitarian aid to the population and refugees must be maintained and, if possible, intensified. the european union must look to saudi arabia, a major trading partner of our countries and a key player in the management of the conflict, to help achieve a lasting peace. we also call on the european council and the european external action service to monitor member states' compliance with guidelines on international humanitarian law and the european criteria for the sale and export of arms.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing conflict in yemen stems from the failure of successive governments to respond to the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, fuelling the discontent and divisions that have resulted in the current violence. i would therefore have voted in favour, hoping that these situations would improve.
in writing. ‒ yemen's crisis has dragged on for 10 months and has escalated since the saudi coalition is launching airstrikes to stop the advance of the houthi rebel group, which had seized control of the capital sana'a and forced the government into exile in saudi arabia. the effects of these actions are having devastating effects throughout the country. according to the united nations, 82 percent of the population is in need of humanitarian assistance. the food situation is particularly worrying, with millions of people struggling to feed themselves, 1.3 million children are acutely malnourished (1.8 million out of school) and there is no access to clean water or basic health care. i voted in favour of this resolution to establish an international, independent and impartial commission of inquiry to examine all violations and abuses by the parties to the conflict and to identify the perpetrators in order to ensure that those responsible are held to account. the european union must promote compliance with international humanitarian law as provided for in the eu guidelines and must work to re-establish the conditions for a political dialogue under the auspices of the un, including saudi arabia and iran, which are crucial countries in encouraging an end to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ since the start of the conflict in yemen, at least 5,979 people have been killed and 28,208 injured. among the victims are hundreds of women and children. in addition, the humanitarian impact on the civilian population, as a result of the ongoing clashes between the various militias, the bombing and the disruption of the provision of essential services, is reaching alarming proportions. the eu has already allocated eur 52 million in 2015 in humanitarian aid for the crisis in yemen and will allocate another eur 2 million for the development of the un verification and inspection mechanism (unvim) for commercial transport to yemen, thereby facilitating the free flow of commercial goods and humanitarian aid to the country. i hope that the conflict can be resolved by reaching a political solution and by starting as soon as possible a new round of peace negotiations under the auspices of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist organisation that goes by the name of isis/daesh is unfortunately a real danger to all ethnic and religious minorities inhabiting the iraqi-syrian region. in recent months this organization has been responsible for serious human rights violations amounting to crimes against humanity and war crimes. the situation is unsustainable and urgent action is needed to protect the people affected by this 'plague'. the text, while addressing the various criticisms, focuses too much on military intervention alone, forgetting that the present situation is the result of an international policy based on the use of force alone. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ daesh poses an unprecedented threat to international peace and security. the destruction of the world's cultural heritage and the trafficking in works of art have been linked from the outset to the immense violence against the civilian population and in particular against minorities living in the territories under its control. the extremist ideology carried by the terrorists has manifested itself in a series of extortions, robberies, massacres and torture inflicted on members of the most diverse religious and ethnic communities. i supported the resolution on the systematic extermination of religious minorities by isis to strongly condemn the crimes against humanity committed by daesh. the eu must provide its full support to the countries and populations threatened by the advance of these groups. the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of all persons, including those who have been forced to leave their country of origin, by ensuring the necessary conditions of security and a dignified future for all those who have been forced to leave their country of origin. only a commitment by the entire international community can guarantee the effective return of displaced persons to their own countries and safeguard their property and their religious and cultural sites.
in writing. ‒ the resolution clearly and unequivocally attacks isis and the persecution, killings and violence perpetrated against christians and religious minorities. for years i have been fighting for europe to recognise the state of persecution of christian communities in the world by islamic fundamentalists. i would have preferred a more forceful line, but i admit that it is a beginning to recognize the reality of the facts: in the middle east, christians are being subjected to a veritable extermination.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the systematic extermination that isis/daesh has perpetrated and is still perpetrating against religious minorities is shameful and that it is the duty of the european union, as well as nato and the united nations, to work to bring it to an end and to eradicate the threat posed by isis/daesh.
in writing. ‒ the islamic state has turned sectarianism into a tool of propaganda and death. religious and ethnic minorities are among the most threatened victims of this indiscriminate violence and are at risk of marginalization, discrimination and disappearance. the increasing level of the threat and its global nature place the problem at the top of the european political agenda. the law should encourage the inclusion of minorities and minority groups should be able to rely on special protection and assistance in order to preserve their presence in religion. there is a serious violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms which must be tackled by the european union and its member states with firmness and speed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution because it strongly attacks isis and the persecution, killing and violence perpetrated against religious minorities, the victims of these attacks. it also calls for the recognition of the genocide of christians and yazidis in the middle east, as well as for action to protect all the various minorities mentioned in the text. a suggestion from the ecr that includes support for military action was also maintained. this, given the line of our movement, may not be enough, but it is nevertheless relevant, as it is a common resolution among all the groups. my suggestion is to support the resolution, but to say that we would have liked a more forceful resolution. this can, however, be a starting point in view of the strong condemnation, recognizing that christians in the middle east are undergoing a real extermination.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the systematic extermination of religious minorities by isis. the violent extremism of the so-called isis/daesh, its terrorist attacks against civilians, its religious and ethnic crimes and its work of destruction of cultural heritage constitute a global and unprecedented threat to international peace, stability and security. the deliberate attacks by this terrorist group against christians, yazidis, turkmen, shiites, shabak, sabaeans, kakais and sunnis, which aims to eliminate all religious minorities from the areas under its control, are of great concern. the european union must therefore support international diplomatic efforts and the work of un special envoy staffan de mistura to launch peace negotiations in geneva, among all syrian parties, with the participation of all global and regional actors, to stop the advance of isis/daesh. i also believe that the european union should put pressure on the gulf states to intensify efforts to prevent and suppress any form of support, active or passive, to isis/daesh, and to firmly confront the extremist ideology that distorts traditional islamic values and which, in its extreme interpretation, is used as a political-religious justification for the actions of isis/daesh.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the international community to take immediate action to combat the systematic mass extermination of religious minorities by the so-called islamic state in iraq and syria (isis) or daesh. it also reiterates its firm condemnation of isis/daesh and its shameful human rights violations, which deliberately target christians, yazidis, turkmen, shiites, shabak, sabaeans, kakates and sunnis. the reason why i abstained in the final vote is that the possibility of military intervention is mentioned in defence of minorities, which i do not agree with.
in writing. ‒ there are two issues raised by this resolution which have led me to vote in favour. the first is the attack on religious freedom. in 2016, you can't hear: we have been through dark centuries of religious extremism in europe, but fortunately we have come out of it long ago and freedom has become a near absolute value, while there are still parts of the world where it is not. the second theme is foreign fighters: in the west, we are so free to allow people to sacrifice themselves for a principle that we reject. this means that our society does not have the antibodies to defend its foundations against attacks that are at least paradoxical. i am reminded of the great poet who sang: "freedom is so dear, as one knows who for her life refuses".
in writing. ‒ the situation in the geographical area of the middle east, which includes iraq and syria, is dramatic for religious minorities, and more specifically for those of the christian faith. the commission has also been informed that the council has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of a report to the european parliament. christians are permanently and systematically targeted by 'isis/daesh', which intentionally pursues their destruction and cultural erasure in the territories they control. moreover, they are often killed, tortured, kidnapped, enslaved (especially women), converted to islam and subjected to other ill-treatment. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution which recognises the facts as explicit violations of the rome statute and thus complies with the obligations of the international community with regard to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution condemning all international crimes committed against religious minorities by the terrorist group isis. the international community can no longer stand by and watch, and more efforts and action are needed to prosecute those responsible for these crimes and stop the ongoing genocide against christians, yazidis and other ethnic and religious minorities and communities currently in the territories controlled by the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament reaffirms its firm condemnation of isis/daesh and its shameful human rights violations, which deliberately target religious minorities in the occupied territories, first and foremost christians, but also yazidis, turkmen, shiites, shabak, sabae, kakae and sunnis. these atrocities are and are equivalent to "war crimes", and "genocide" also from the standpoint of international law according to the statute of the international criminal court. it is time to stop, including by means of appropriate legal instruments, not only the material perpetrators of these crimes but also those who, by siding with the terrorists, allow these atrocities to be perpetrated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution tabled following a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure) on the systematic extermination of religious minorities by isis. it has long been clear that the criminal and barbaric ideology of the so-called islamic state constitutes a global threat to world peace and security and that the international community has a duty to intensify joint efforts to repress such crimes. in the nearly two years since the occupation of the syrian and iraqi territories removed from government control, isis has committed countless acts of terrorism, abuses, gross and systematic violations of human rights, massacres of civilians and all kinds of barbarism. the ethnic and religious minorities are particularly targeted by daesh, who are only guilty of sharing a different view and interpretation of the koran. i therefore share the call to the international community, in particular turkey and the gulf states, to take more effective action to ensure the safety and decent living standards of refugees and displaced persons and to activate channels of humanitarian assistance to the persecuted population.
in writing. the shameful human rights violations committed by "isis/daesh" have targeted christians, yazidis, turkmen, shiites, shabak, sabae, kakae and sunnis. the european union strongly condemns these actions, which are absolutely unacceptable, and that is why we have decided to table a joint motion for a resolution. "isis/daesh" is committing genocide against christians, yazidis and other ethnic and religious minorities who do not share its interpretation of islam. we cannot allow genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes to go unpunished and it is imperative to strengthen international cooperation in order to put an end to such atrocities. i deplore the very serious and systematic violation of the inalienable rights of all religious and other minorities living in iraq and syria. the international community has a duty to provide protection and assistance, including military assistance, in accordance with international law, to all those targeted by the so-called 'isis/daesh' and other terrorist organisations in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ the so-called isil/daesh continues to target ethnic and religious groups in iraq and syria, deliberately subjecting them to a range of serious abuses and violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law, which in some cases constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity. this is why we have mass executions, targeted killings and torture. for these reasons i would have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i share, without reservation, the firm condemnation of the terrorist group isis/daesh, which has been and continues to be responsible for heinous crimes against humanity and war crimes, which, in the case of religious minorities and communities such as the lgbt community, increasingly appear to be a real genocide. christians, yazidis, turkmen, sufis, shiites and sunnis who do not share his delusional interpretation of islam are victims of daily attacks, aimed at physically eliminating any religious minority from the territory. i also condemn the brutal persecution of members of the lgbt community and the horrendous oppression of women, who are subjected to physical, psychological and sexual violence, forced into slavery and reduced to commodities by terrorists. a condition that many children and, in general, all the weaker sections of society suffer from. i therefore join my voice in calling on the international community, the un, the european union, the member states and all other actors concerned to do everything possible to put an end to these crimes and bring those responsible to justice. at the same time, i would like to reiterate the importance of welcoming and protecting those who are forced to flee syria and iraq precisely because of such crimes.
in writing. ‒ in iraq and syria, isis/daesh is committing serious human rights violations. one of its aims is to exterminate christians and any other religious and ethnic minorities in the areas under its control. according to the united nations, these violations may constitute war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. this resolution calls on the international community to take immediate action to combat the mass extermination of religious minorities by the so-called islamic state and to appoint a permanent special representative for freedom of religion and belief. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution proposed by the epp because it provides that all the abuses and discrimination perpetrated by isis, including against christians, be recognised by the european parliament as genocide, while at the same time calling on the un security council to do the same. we must use every means to fight isis and give its victims the dignity and respect they deserve.
in writing. ‒ finally, a european institution has found the courage to define isis' atrocities against religious minorities for what they are: it was genocide. christians persecuted, churches destroyed, unable to profess their faith: this is the situation in the middle east under the so-called islamic state. i hope that after the positions of the council of europe, which recognised the genocide last week, and of the european parliament, it will be the united nations that will define these crimes against humanity as 'genocide', thus further raising public awareness. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the european parliament resolution on the systematic extermination of religious minorities by daesh, because i believe that it is urgent to intensify efforts to prevent and suppress further unacceptable acts of violence against religious minorities. the ideology of violent extremism promoted by daesh, through its continued attacks and human rights violations against various minorities, such as christians, yazidis, turkmen, shiites and sunnis who do not share their interpretation of islam, and through its systematic work of destruction of cultural heritage, constitutes a terrible threat to international security and peace. we therefore consider it necessary and desirable to introduce specific provisions in the laws of the member states, on the one hand, to stop the financing of terrorist organizations and, on the other, to curb the phenomenon of foreign fighters, by means of measures to prevent their own citizens from leaving to join these organizations.
in writing. ‒ daesh has made religious conflict a central theme of its propaganda and actions, using religion as a recruitment tool and as a pretext to claim raw material-rich lands. that is why parliament's vote on this joint motion is of fundamental importance, because it is a matter of putting the international crimes committed by this terrorist group against all religious minorities at the centre of the political debate. it is our duty to continue to promote preventive measures and further action to stop the incipient genocide against christians, yazidis and other ethnic and religious minorities and communities. we also call on the united nations to take decisive action to prosecute the members of isis responsible for these heinous acts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that these strategies produce tangible results. there's only one way to do that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the if we look at the current structure of the ten-t networks, the adriatic-ionian macro-region currently has a gap in transport infrastructure, which is reflected in a lack of connectivity. i would ask the commissioner to travel by train along the adriatic coast to see for herself whether or not it is necessary to make efforts to close this connectivity gap as soon as possible. as will be recalled, on 28 october parliament made a clear statement on this need in its jakovčić report on eusair, calling for the ten-t network to be extended to the entire adriatic, starting from ancona, passing through pescara, and reaching bari and brindisi. the commission prefers to invest resources on the costly and controversial turin-lyon line and completely neglects the areas of southern europe which are almost devoid of railway infrastructure and which would need more investment precisely to close the gap with the rest of europe. it is therefore a good thing that the european institutions are showing genuine interest in all the regions, including those in the south. it is also a sign that you are convinced that the southern regions must not miss this important meeting with the future. parliament has spoken and will continue to do so as long as the strategy is focused on its objectives. we therefore call on the commission to play its full part.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge difference in the fate of our pets, between those who live happily in the warmth of our homes and those who are considered merely a commercial object to be sold for the greatest possible profit. the introduction of a european system harmonising the systems and standards for the identification and registration of dogs and cats, and thus easily accessible to all member states, could certainly be a good tool in the fight against illicit trade. this could lead to a new form of cooperation between the member states in the field of animal welfare, and could in future improve and extend animal welfare legislation. the basic principle is animal welfare, as we have said, the fight against illegal trade, as we have said, health issues to prevent the spread of diseases, but also the right of the citizen to be informed and protected and to be able to find his friend dog or cat if he happens to lose it.
i would like to make it clear on behalf of my group: the united kingdom must remain in the european union. not just for convenience . we all know that a brexit would be a leap in the dark, with disastrous consequences for the british first, but europe is not a marriage of convenience. the united kingdom, in our view, must remain in the union because it is part of europe. we, like the united kingdom, have a common history and culture, and without london, without the united kingdom, europe would not be the same. so, friday's deal, and thanks to all who took part in it: the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council. i would like to say, however, that we will not accept being held hostage by the internal balances of the british conservative party. it is unacceptable that, while europe is suffering the worst crisis in its history, weeks have been spent discussing the voting procedure in the council, or the interpretation to be given to certain provisions of the banking union. the agreement reached on friday reiterates that the principle of free movement of citizens will not be affected from a legal point of view. - i know. i am aware of that, but i am not convinced by one aspect, the social aspect. let's imagine two young people, both europeans, doing the same job. there is a risk that one of the two, just because he is not british, has fewer rights than the other. this is called discrimination, although i hope, i hope, that it will be refuted by the proposals which the european commission will present after the result of the referendum. we believe that there are principles, threads, which must be touched with caution and care, otherwise there is a risk of a fatal shock, and one of those principles is that there is no distinction in terms of rights between citizens of the union. we will fight for the united kingdom to stay with us, and i say this with the greatest respect for the british people, who have the choice, and only they have the choice. i say this with the utmost respect. you have been a player in the world, the uk has been an actor in the world, for peace and democracy. these values are part of the dna of the united kingdom. the european union is a great example of this. together we can witness and overcome the challenges, in the world and in time, of the pitfalls and the fear, of the tumultuous speed of globalization, of loneliness and sadness and abandonment. being together is an extraordinary strength. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. you are a member of the european parliament and you know as much as i do, or at least you should know, about the procedures, so i am not inventing anything. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to parliament, which is the co-legislator, and we will then be able to examine and discuss the implementing measures. no parliament in the world, free and independent in its judgment, can anticipate an outcome on something it does not yet know. when the measurements are available, we will examine them. we are constructive in our spirit, and we want the united kingdom to remain in the european union by all means.
i'm asking for a blue card. i have heard the speech of my colleague and i would like to ask him: if there was a magic wand, if he were in the place of juncker or tusk, who is here, what would he do immediately? what would be the first thing you'd do?
i'm asking for a blue card. after hearing the speech of my colleague, that is to say, your speech, this comes to mind: if you had the magic wand, if there was something magical, like in a fairy tale, and you became the one who could be juncker's replacement or president tusk's replacement tomorrow morning, what would you do first of all for this europe?
mr president, the settlement that has been negotiated and unanimously agreed by all 28 member states is, i think, a fair and balanced deal. all the institutions should be proud that the eu has been able to deliver in a timely manner. the settlement recognises that the uk can continue to benefit from the single market without being bound to the principle of ever closer union and to further political integration, while this principle remains fully valid for the others. the settlement guarantees against the pound suffering discrimination and, at the same time, is fully in line with the treaties and with the need to preserve a level playing field across the single market and within the single rule book. furthermore, the settlement recognises, at the same time, the need for further euro area integration. for these reasons, if british citizens decide to stay, we will examine the commission proposal with the highest respect. we will respect the agreement and we will not prevent or delay its implementation. legally speaking, of course, parliament can only formally speak in an appropriate procedure on the basis of the commission proposal but, politically speaking, i think that this debate clearly shows that the settlement commands a broad majority in this house. so we will be fair. we will keep our word. now it is time for british citizens to safeguard their prosperity and their future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has not convinced me that there is anything wrong with british citizens being able to decide whether to stay in europe or leave it, and i do not think that all these advantages are being seen. the council has not decided anything significant on immigration, it has given three billion to turkey without imposing any restrictions, no controls. but there is one point i would like to bring to the attention of president tusk, who is here, and also to you, mr president, and above all to the commission. there is a european citizen who was killed after being brutally tortured: he's an italian, a young man of 28 years, giulio regeni. and europe, which is concerned with human rights everywhere, does not dare to make its voice heard. it's a disgrace! we want to know from egypt how things went, when they will tell the truth that has been asked for many times, especially, of course, by the italian government. the voice of europe and of high commissioner mogherini is absent. it's a disgrace!
president of the european council. – mr president, thank you for your understanding. i will make just two remarks. the two issues we are discussing today – the uk settlement and migration – are strictly interconnected. i have absolutely no doubt that how we challenge the migration crisis will be of key significance for the referendum campaign. all those who want to keep the unity of the european union – the unity of the whole of the west – and who feel that we have found ourselves in an epic moment should fight for a common plan with the fullest determination possible. what i mean by a common plan is an effective implementation of our decisions, full respect of the schengen code and common action with turkey. if this emerging unity of action on the migration crisis is violated by anyone, they may in fact contribute to the uk leaving the eu. as i have already said, the uk settlement will enter into force only if the british people vote to stay. if they vote to leave, the settlement will cease to exist. no one should have any illusions in this case: it was not one of many rounds of negotiations on the uk settlement in the eu; it was the first round and the last. there will be no more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just witnessed yet another european council meeting that ends with nothing and the ritual postponement until next month of the immigration crisis in the union. but do we really believe that the european union's objective in dealing with the migration crisis should be to stem the flow, protect the external borders and reduce irregular migration? is this the much-vaunted overall approach of the european council? and what about a long-term policy to manage migration, to guarantee safe legal access routes, to create channels for legal immigration and to integrate migrants into the political, economic and social fabric of our country? the european parliament's draft report on migration provides concrete answers to these questions. for us, this is the global approach to the migration phenomenon, with more solidarity and a fairer sharing of responsibility. mr president, without a vision of the future on the part of europe, we shall be the victims of an unprecedented political failure and the losers of the main achievement of the european union: the free movement of persons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the migration crisis the european council welcomed the decision of nato to provide assistance in the reconnaissance, control and surveillance of illegal crossings in the aegean sea. frontex must cooperate directly and closely with nato. the full implementation of the eu-turkey action plan is a global strategic priority in order to stem migration flows. we must reduce the number of illegal entries into the european union from turkey in a sustainable way by further and decisive efforts to ensure the effective implementation of the action plan. further efforts are therefore needed to ensure this effectiveness, and the summit on 7 march will be decisive. on brexit, i think that a possible exit from the european union could prove fatal for the stability of the european union, but also for the uk economy itself. and even if the agreement reached is not what we hoped for, the european council's decision is a positive one. we must do everything we can to keep britain in europe, to change europe. more europe, to save europe.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, on the subject of the uk negotiations, heads of state and governments agreed on a deal last week to accommodate the concerns of prime minister cameron, and the decision is now in the hands of the british people. as president juncker said, should the outcome of the referendum be positive, the commission would immediately put legislative proposals on the table to the european parliament and the council to implement the deal. on the refugee crisis, the commission is working day and night to handle the crisis and the flow of refugees. we believe that the solution can only be a european solution. member states need to cooperate among themselves and implement agreements already reached so we can see the first positive signs with the better management of our external borders, hotspots, relocations and return policy, and the commission is working to present further measures and bring further improvements to the situation in the very short term. concerted action with our external partners is also of utmost importance, and the meeting with turkey and eu leaders on 7 march will be key in this regard. we need to provide a coordinated response to the refugee crisis.
in writing. the conclusions of the european council of 18 and 19 february set out the terms of the agreement between the european union and the united kingdom. the agreement reached after lengthy negotiations is intended to clarify the 'special status' of the united kingdom and to provide a basis for dismissing the possibility of its withdrawal in view of the referendum on 23 june. i am confident that this agreement, although it includes some painful concessions, such as the extension of the temporary freeze on unemployment benefits to migrants from other countries of the union, can be the starting point for a decisive relaunch of the union's integration process, based on different speeds and perspectives. the union needs a new and more effective governance, enabling shared and rapid decision-making, more than ever before. i think we need a more united union, and if necessary even a 'closer' union, if we are to break out of the political and identity impasse which is driving citizens away from the european institutions every day. i hope that this agreement will help to improve the participation in the european decision-making process of one of its most important members: the united kingdom.
in writing. the eu's response to the migration crisis to contain flows, protect external borders and safeguard the integrity of the schengen area has proved to be a failure. the enormous and unmanageable wave of migration of people fleeing wars continues to be a problem of the frontline countries, and especially of greece and italy. the european union as a whole and its declarations of intent have had little impact at international level on the real causes of the migration problem. since its entry into the european parliament, m5s has been pushing for proposals based not necessarily on the interest and selfishness of a few, but on common sense and the interest of all, including the stop to the sale of arms, the political and financial isolation of terrorist organisations, the amendment of the dublin regulation, the mandatory and permanent relocation mechanism, legal pathways of access, repatriation for those who do not have the right to remain in europe in full respect of fundamental rights. it is now, instead, to suffer passively the negative consequences of a phenomenon that has persisted for years, which brings out what is still missing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's economic recipe for the year is based on three wrong principles: austerity, with the words discipline, rigor and stability everywhere; reckless reforms without adequate impact assessments; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. to oppose this recipe it is not enough to say 'no' to austerity, but we must be intellectually honest and question the monetary instrument through which the states are obliged to apply these wrong policies, constantly trampling on national constitutions. the surrender of monetary sovereignty is the original sin and taking it back is the only practical way to fight head on against austerity and to return to the founding principles of the union and save europe. to date, we have two clear examples of contractual power: the strong side is that of those who do not have the euro, such as the uk, which, being able to determine itself economically, comes to brussels to negotiate as a protagonist, setting the conditions, and the weak side is that of those who have given up economic policies by adopting the euro and are therefore obliged to do what brussels and frankfurt say, begging for flexibility and suffering slaps and injustices in the application of the rules. greece and italy are the two most concrete and striking examples. i speak of injustice because for almost 20 years we have had a currency which is not the expression of a real currency area but of a fixed exchange rate constraint between 19 states with deep-rooted economic and social differences. we have said this in every report on economic matters since we have entered this parliament: every day for too many years, the germans and the dutch have been exploiting the undervalued fixed exchange rate for their economies and getting rich by recording current account surpluses in their balance of payments. the commission is stalling and doing nothing, applying the procedure for macroeconomic imbalances too softly, too slowly and too gradually. the commission has only acted over the years to whip up the already distressed mediterranean countries, which are forced into internal devaluations, trapped in the inability to fluctuate their exchange rates to close the gap. the italian finance minister, padoan, had to admit this a few weeks ago. plus there are decades of economic studies that say what i'm saying now. unfortunately, once again, the german surplus will not be clearly addressed in the text we are voting on, and in some respects we can say that it will be positively emphasized. there is hope of our amendment to nail germany, the netherlands and the commission; we shall see who will vote or who will continue to support a compromise downwards with the epp and to hide the obvious irrationality and disparity of treatment of this monetary union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the commissioner for all the help he is giving us at this time. i am sorry that i will not be speaking about the major systems, but i think it is time that the council also took up its responsibilities for the application of the product surveillance package, including safety, in this respect. we need a safe market, we need citizens to actually know what they are wearing, how they are dressing, what they are eating. this is what we call traceability, and we're sorry that this package is once again blocked. we need a "made in": i am in favour of 'made in italy', but i am also in favour of 'made in europe', and that is why i believe that the council must make a change, precisely to move forward, otherwise we are not competitive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the single market is without doubt the best result of the process of european integration. its value is borne out by the recent brexit debate: it is the real argument of those in london who argue that it is not appropriate to leave the european union. the many studies on the costs of 'non-europe' show that the single market is still incomplete and has a great deal of untapped potential. but there are other clouds gathering on the horizon today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is fully implemented. it is precisely at this difficult time for european unity that we must return to the single market as the engine of growth and innovation for a competitive europe.
in writing. the report supports the strategy, which i believe is a failure, proposed by the european commission, insisting on the need to continue with fiscal consolidation, structural reforms, private investment, full implementation of the stability and growth pact. although it does present some points of agreement, which we in the five star movement have supported, such as the importance of stimulating domestic demand and increasing public investment and greater attention to environmental problems, the problem of unemployment and growing inequalities, these are nevertheless references which, unless accompanied by proposals for alternative policies and for the revision of the rules and mechanisms of economic governance, are empty and insufficient. what i think is really missing from the report is a critical reflection on the need for a real change of course in the policies adopted so far. i regret that i did not find in the text an adequate analysis of the role of the euro, macroeconomic imbalances, budgetary constraints and the impact of the commission's recipes on the economy. in general, i do not think that what is expressed in this report is what europe needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr becker. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i was really happy to be able to work with her. you have shown that this parliament, when it is necessary to give concrete answers, can work in three-quarters of an hour and aim at results, at content and really at effective results. so i thank you and you will have our support in the vote tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, a strengthened and better—known eures network with a broader scope, a wider range of support services and a modern it platform that allows for better, automated matching of profiles will be a powerful instrument. it will make it easier for job seekers to expand their job search in other member states and it will give employers access to a wider pool of talent. it will facilitate, on the ground, the exercising of free movement by workers. the strength of any network always depends first and foremost on its members. this is no different in the case of eures. the commission is committed to continuing to support the network, to helping it develop and to making best use of the tools that the new regulation puts at its disposal. i hope that we can count on parliament’s continued support in our doing so.
in writing. the european economy needs to constantly strengthen the foundations of its economy, such as labour, which has been put to the test in recent years, so that, far from being an asset for growth, it shows a vulnerable side to economic crises. one of the preconditions for its development lies in the degree of effectiveness attributable to freedom of movement for workers themselves, which, unfortunately, is still low at present. in the context of the european year of the environment, the commission has launched a new action plan for the promotion of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union. in response to my request for improved accuracy of forecasting models and greater interoperability of data between national portals, the commission stated in june 2015 that the cooperation of national systems is necessary. the greatest challenge in making the freedom of movement of workers a reality is to overcome the regulatory and legal barriers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do not make this mistake. the tunisian people are not helped by duty-free olive oil imports. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and be careful . there is a risk of counterfeiting of the 'made in italy' and of fraud to the detriment of consumers. the italian agricultural sector, for example, would be subject to yet another decision without taking into account the impact on the economy, employment and the environment. does it not seem to you that, once they have reached italian ports, some cunning man will be able to turn the tunisian oil passport into a 'made in italy' passport? i ask this because imported oil is not easily identifiable today, and i strongly suspect this after the recent maxi-seizure in apulia of as much as 7 000 tonnes of north african extra virgin olive oil sold for italian. the risk is that this oil will not benefit the tunisians, but will be used by some company that makes money by blending oils. with this proposal, only southern european agriculture bears the burden of strengthening democracy in the countries of north africa. but it is all of europe that must help tunisia. it must help it to fight poverty and islamic fundamentalism, of course, but we need a euro-mediterranean agricultural strategy which gives value to our agriculture and not false one-off forms of support which penalize it. i am speaking to the members of the democratic party in particular, because by voting in favour of the import of tunisian oil you are fuelling a war between the poor. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. what i said is very different. i have spoken of a euro-mediterranean agricultural policy, which means including the countries of north africa, which means all producers. let us remember that we do it in europe, and so we have the same way of farming, the same products. that's why i was talking about people-to-people war. let us remember that in addition to these 35 times 2, we also have another 56 000 tonnes which have been forgiven, so to speak, by this european policy. what i am saying is that everyone must help tunisia, not just europe. i'm not saying that we shouldn't help, but it's a democracy outpost, tunisia's, and we should definitely help, but not in this way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to make it clear that i personally am in favour of a cohesion policy which supports the democratization process in tunisia and supports the tunisian system. i am strongly opposed to the adoption of this type of measure with regard to the intended use of oil, but i am opposed not to oil in specific terms: i am against a policy that once chooses oil, once chooses tomato, once chooses wine, once chooses everything that is produced only in certain territorial areas. why don't we start with milk? why don't we start with the meat? why do we not begin to implement the condition of diversifying the burden that weighs only on our southern territory (i am talking about sicily, i am talking about puglia, i am talking about sardinia, i am talking about situations that are dramatically on their knees today)? because it is not a question of looking at how much we produce, it is a question of looking at the damage that small producers suffer through this type of policy. i would add that europe's credibility is being undermined, and its ability to convey a strong and positive message of cohesion and strength is being further damaged, precisely because of the existence of these kinds of measures. i therefore tabled an amendment to reject this commission proposal altogether.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i personally agree with the commission's stated aim: the european union is also committed to the development of the tunisian democracy and its economy, both of which have been badly affected by the attacks of terrorist groups, and i am in favour of any practice of economic and political solidarity between the peoples of the mediterranean area. at the same time, however, i have a very strong objection to the proposed instrument, namely a free trade agreement and additional zero-duty quotas for olive oil. liberalisation is not the way to stimulate the developing economy. a renegotiation and a cancellation of the debt would have been a really useful instrument to help the tunisian people. i think it is rhetorical to say that we should help tunisian producers, when only the large european exporting companies would be interested in this measure. i would like to remind you that olive oil producers, especially in southern europe (i am thinking of my own region of puglia), have already been hit hard by xylella and the eradication plan, which unfortunately also had the approval of this parliament. i shall vote against this proposal for a regulation not only to defend european and apulian producers but also tunisian producers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there is no one among us who does not feel solidarity with the tunisian people after the despicable terrorist attacks last year. but europe is already doing its part in a very good way, for example, by means of an allocation of 500 million euro approved a few days ago, on 12 february, by the european commission. i do not think that this is the right answer to support the young tunisian democracy, because with these 70 000 tonnes of olive oil from the expenditure agreement, which adds to the 56 700 tonnes already provided for in an earlier agreement, as some have said, we are simply massacring the agriculture of southern europe, particularly italy, in a very peculiar time frame, where, as some have said, the xylella - the disease that has affected the plants of apulia - caused a 47% reduction in total italian production in 2015. that is why i hope that this proposal for a regulation will not be adopted and that the slaughter of agriculture in southern europe will not continue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr de sarnez for his work. much has already been said about the situation in tunisia. i believe that the task of the european union is to make a strong political, economic and financial contribution to ensure that the transition process under way is brought to a positive conclusion, and this must be done in good time, we cannot waste time. the negotiations on trade relations must go in this direction and, if they are to have a significant and verifiable impact on the whole of tunisian reality, the agreement must be based on the utmost transparency and must involve the full participation of tunisian civil society. this is a vital point which the european parliament must demand with force and determination. i think that the question of the purchase of tunisian oil, on which the council and the commission have deliberated, should also be placed on this path. i think that we should use common sense in evaluating the amendments that have been tabled. in conclusion, i think i can say that tunisia is also expecting an important signal from the european parliament to define a balanced framework for trade relations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote against this proposal, i shall vote against this proposal because the aims of the proposal are right, but the means used to achieve the aims are profoundly wrong. a reduction in european import duties does not bring any advantage to tunisian producers and economic operators. it will only benefit a group of european olive oil importers who will enrich themselves with the taxes paid by european citizens. that is not good politics, that is not the europe we want. i just feel like we're going in the wrong direction. we are not only still penalizing one sector, the agricultural sector in southern europe, in heavy terms, but we are taking action which will have no real effect. good oil is clear, but we're talking about very, very cloudy oil.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is a moral duty to help tunisia at this difficult time and we certainly do not want to back down. however, we believe that there would have been other more concrete and effective ways of helping the tunisian agricultural economy, for example through programmes to develop tunisian oil, a very good product which is already widely imported into the european union. and even some tunisian ngos have raised doubts about the usefulness of these measures which will benefit mainly european traders and very little tunisian producers. our concerns are not about a corporate position: we are in solidarity with them, but we cannot risk jeopardizing the already fragile european olive sector without being sure who will really benefit from these measures. we would have preferred a completely different proposal, but i would at least ask all members to support the amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture which mitigate the distortive effects on the european market of this proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we stand with the tunisian people and as an italian citizen of a country which has set the highest example of solidarity in the field of immigration, i say - as you do, madam commissioner - that the whole of the european union must show solidarity. it was therefore desirable that all 28 member states should be involved in sharing the commission's proposal on the method and the economic implications of this approach to making this principle of solidarity effective. the instrument is, however, highly disadvantageous for one area, and that area alone, southern europe, and in particular for italy, and, once again, for a particular and unique sector, agriculture. all this without even a preventive impact study, and moreover, while it is precisely the tunisian ngos who tell us that they consider this agreement ineffective because, perhaps, they would have expected something else. i therefore declare that i shall vote against this agreement, waiting for the commission to reformulate its proposal in order to actually help tunisia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must support the democratization process in tunisia in every way. europe must support the tunisian economy, but the olive oil producers cannot bear the cost. at the present stage the european commission's proposal could have a negative impact on the european olive sector and so i think it is essential that this parliament tomorrow expresses its support for the corrective amendments to the text which i have tabled with my colleagues in the agri committee. the first amendment aims to limit the effects of the proposal to a maximum of two years; the second states that the oil must be produced entirely in tunisia in order to avoid fraud and ensure adequate consumer protection. the most important is the fourth, which provides for the monthly management of the additional quantities in order to minimise their impact on the community olive oil market and to avoid a collapse in european prices in certain months of the year. these amendments will help to mitigate the negative impact of this proposal and it is clear that if they are not adopted, i will not hesitate to vote against the whole proposal.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, ungass 2016 is a key opportunity for the international community to take stock of the achievements of the international drug control system today. it also provides an opportunity to elaborate a response to the world drug problem and to find long-term solutions in the framework of the international treaties. as an outcome, ungass should adopt a short and action-oriented document comprising a set of operational recommendations, and the eu supports such an approach. to be more precise, the eu advocates the following priorities. first, we emphasise that the three un drug conventions which provide the international legal framework, and the universal declaration on human rights, should remain the cornerstone of the global response to the world drug problem. indeed, there is sufficient scope and flexibility within the provisions of the un drug conventions to accommodate a wide range of approaches to drug policy in accordance with national and regional specificities. second, we highlight the importance of human rights. we call for the abolition of the death penalty for drug-related offences as well as the abolition of other practices which are not in line with the principles of human dignity, liberty, democracy, equality, solidarity, the rule of law and human rights, and the eu continues to stress that the death penalty undermines human dignity while failing to act as a deterrent to criminal behaviour. also, the eu recalls that the application of the death penalty for drug-related crimes does not meet the threshold of the most serious crimes as set out by the international covenant on civil and political rights. third, we advocate drug policies based on an integrated, balanced and evidence-based approach. clearly, a balance between drug supply and drug demand reduction measures is needed, and we also call for drug policies to be underpinned by a sound public-health approach based on scientific evidence and supported by objective monitoring systems and evaluation. while the international drug conventions call for a balanced approach, we feel that in a number of states, measures to address drug production and trafficking take priority over drug use, prevention, risk and harm reduction, treatment, rehabilitation and recovery. therefore a stronger health approach is needed to redress this balance, and ungass is a unique opportunity to achieve that. the union also calls on state parties to guarantee access to risk- and harm-reduction measures, which are not only related to hiv/aids prevention but also cover a whole spectrum of measures to protect public health and society. the eu consistently stresses that these measures have proved their effectiveness in improving public health. we also advocate the promotion of alternative development as a long-term and holistic approach to tackle the root causes and framework conditions of the illicit cultivation of drug crops. finally, we attach great importance to the role of civil society and science, especially in the field of drug demand reduction. therefore the eu is also calling for the recognition of a role for civil society in drugs policies. these priorities will reflect that, in the common eu position on ungass set out in november last year and in the eu contribution to the ungass outcome document. currently the eu is closely involved in defending these priorities in the negotiations on the ungass outcome document, and we are glad to see that the ungass outcome document already includes many elements that are important to the eu. however, two important issues are still missing: first, a reference to the abolition of the death penalty for drug-related crimes, and second, strong language on risk- and harm-reduction measures. clearly the eu will have to keep on advocating the inclusion of these very important elements.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission believes that the eu has a very important role to play in promoting a robust outcome at the united nations general assembly special session on drugs and is fully engaged in its preparation. the european union adopted last november a common position for the ungass. we are determined to speak with one strong voice, and you will hear that the commission is very much in agreement with the council at this session. we will ensure that critical issues for the eu’s common position are taken on board in negotiations on the outcome document. commissioner avramopoulos will represent the commission at the special session and seize the opportunity to present and promote the eu’s world—recognised model of drugs policy, and this policy is based on evidence. it drives a balanced approach between drug demand reduction and drug supply reduction and gives attention to the challenges, such as the online trade in drugs and new psychoactive substances. some of the key issues we will focus on have already been mentioned by the minister, but let me emphasise them again. our priorities include respect for human rights and the call for abolition of the death penalty for drug-related crimes, because they do not meet the threshold for the most serious crimes under international law. so, we have proposed from the eu side to organise a side event, during the special session, on the death penalty to explain our views on why capital punishment for drugs-related offences is not a good policy solution – and, by the way, it is never a good solution. we will also plead for proportional criminal justice when dealing with people who use drugs, and we will advocate rebalancing our drug policy towards public health approaches. this is the primary objective of an international drugs control system. we need to do more when it comes to demand reduction, encompassing prevention, early detection and intervention treatment, risk reduction, care, recovery, rehabilitation and social integration, and we are comparatively very well placed to share our experiences and best practices in this area. we will support the draft recommendations on drug supply reduction currently on the table. we want to see greater international cooperation and coordination to prevent and respond to drug-related crimes. primarily, the focus should be on those having a leading role in the trafficking chain. it is equally important to address the links between drug trafficking and other forms of organised crime, money laundering and corruption. the eu will remain active in regional and international networks addressing these issues. europol is contributing decisively to this end, offering experts and facilitating information exchange and best practices. we will also call for effective international cooperation on challenges such as drug trafficking on the internet and on new psychoactive substances – threats that concern all the regions of the world. we will stress the importance of building drug policies on evidence, reliable objective monitoring and evaluation systems. we have our own agency, the european monitoring centre of drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) in lisbon, which is pursuing these goals steadily. last but not least, we wish to see tailored measures for children, women and young people. therefore the eu will be at the forefront of those calling for greater involvement of civil society in the definition and implementation of our drugs policy. we have an expert group of 45 ngos in the form of the eu civil society forum on drugs, and they are a constant adviser to us. so, dear members of parliament, i am looking forward to hearing your interventions, which we will carefully take into account in our preparations and participation in ungass.
in its annual report for 2014, the italian national antimafia directorate felt obliged to highlight the total failure of repressive action to combat the spread of light drugs, in particular cannabis, and invited the italian parliament to assess, in a european context, whether decriminalisation of the matter is appropriate, taking into account the potential positive consequences in terms of deflation of the judicial burden, the release of resources to combat other criminal phenomena and, above all, the fight against the mafias. these are very weighty words from those on the front lines of the battle to enforce the current regulations, and they are part of a debate that has been brought to life by the positive experiences in countries such as uruguay and in several states in the united states of america, also in terms of reducing crime. this should make us reflect, especially in the run-up to the un general assembly's special session on drugs, a unique opportunity to review global drug policies, putting people, their health and human rights at the centre, and having the courage to change course. the repressive policies have failed to reduce the illegal market, overcrowded prisons, stigmatized drug users and fueled the multibillion-dollar trafficking of organized crime. i hope, therefore, that we will take this important opportunity to reflect on a change of course which is now necessary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is one aspect which is often not taken into account in anti-drug strategies. it is not about repressive techniques, but about the environmental impact of the fight against drugs. between 2001 and 2013, over 700,000 acres of forest in latin america were cleared to make way for cocaine plantations. according to a study published by the open society foundations, an ngo headed by george soros, in the most critical areas of the world, the environmental consequences of the international drug war would be even more devastating than the economic and social ones. it is just yet another demonstration of how repressive policies alone have been an uneconomic choice, guaranteeing huge profits to producers, brokers and traffickers. for these reasons i believe that the next special session of the un must also take account of this new question, which has been raised by the independent reports of various organizations. only in this way will it be possible to deal with the harmful effects of the war on drugs, taking account of all aspects and not just the repressive ones.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian bathing system is rooted in the tradition of enterprises, almost always family-run, which have invested their wealth and their future even in areas where protecting a bathing sea is a conquest of civilization for entire regions. the italian seaside economy has 87 000 enterprises, 418 000 employees and a consumption of 24 billion euro. after a long life, these families are now faced with the effects of the definitive termination of their right to insist, vigorously defended in every court, now also before the court of justice, from which they were forcibly expelled in an attempt to counter the tide of the bolkestein directive and against which they are moving with trepidation. i feel that i am on their side in this process, aware that finding a balance between their family future and respect for the community principles of freedom to provide services is so painful that it cannot be left to them alone. the possible remedies, such as the dematerialisation of areas and the recognition of land option rights, therefore appear to be proposals compatible with a community balance which would in any case preserve their rights.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, for her work, because her commitment has been very effective and very important in continuing to make these institutions more transparent. i would like to focus on transparency, since, as we have said, the majority of complaints and investigations concern requests for information and access to documents and transparency, and all too often these requests are refused. i would like to stress in particular the need to shed light on and investigate the use and expenditure of the structural funds, which unfortunately do not currently provide for an effective control mechanism and where there are mechanisms, for example, for auditing, very often the situation is that the controlled is also the controller. and too often we hear about projects which have no added value for society. i am referring, for example, to an absurd project such as the tav, the turin-lyon high-speed railway, which is in fact a large, imposed and harmful project that has been much disputed by the local population for many years, and which is also being financed with european funds. i therefore ask the ombudsman to shed light on these aspects too, in close cooperation with the court of auditors, so that we can really ensure that the excessive irregularities and the lack of transparency that remain are forcefully eradicated from our work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the defensor del pueblo for his very valuable inquiries. i would like to focus on the forced returns of migrants handled by frontex, in the light of increasing numbers of arrivals, an increasingly closed union and agreements with lawless countries such as turkey. you have rightly asked frontex to set up mechanisms to report violations of rights resulting from its work. i would like to ask you whether the task of the controller can be entrusted to the controlled person, whether it is sufficient to ask frontex to ensure that the welfare of returnees on return flights is respected (welfare is a vague word), and whether it is not appropriate for border guards to provide for the possibility of anonymous complaints or complaints from ngos and appeals when complaints are considered inadmissible.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to remind the citizens who are following us that we are talking about cigarette smuggling by the cigarette manufacturers themselves. the european commission has launched a series of legal actions against these producers: there are currently four agreements in force, with philip morris, japan tobacco, imperial tobacco and british american tobacco. among these agreements, the one with philip morris is the most striking: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. for years the commission has continued to delay the publication of the evaluation of the agreement with philip morris and we have reached the point where the agreement expires in six months and parliament has been kept in the dark about everything all this time. i would point out that while the commission is spending some of the resources to combat cigarette smuggling in the hercule programme, it is not known how this money is spent within the member states: we are talking about 1.6 billion euros, of which the citizens have no idea where it is going. in reply to a question i asked in november 2015, the council completely washed its hands of the matter, saying that it could not provide clarification on this because it is not an official party to the cooperation agreements. but in italy, philip morris is investing and growing with the blessing of prime minister matteo renzi, opening factories, obtaining 50% excise duty discounts to bring its new products to market, and even receiving the promise of being able to use its codentify technology to manage traceability systems, before the commission adopts the delegated acts required by the tobacco directive and before the european union ratifies the world health organization protocol on the same subject. like, controller and controlled. so, gentlemen, what more can i say? thank you for smoking!
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am making this speech on the pretext that i do not smoke, but there is once again a terrible hypocrisy here. this hypocrisy is due to the fact that here we are speaking against smoking, against philip morris, the commissioner is telling us certain things, but then in reality everyone is exploiting what is the big tobacco lobby. why are we making fun of each other? there's a lot of people. there are tobacco lobbies out there, there are those who pay for the campaigns of politicians, there are those who send politicians in here just because they have to serve the interests of philip morris and all the other lobbyists, as well as many other companies. and then we come here to hear: "we have to fight smuggling", but do you know why they want to fight smuggling? but why is it that if there is smuggling, no taxes are paid, if there is smuggling, the state does not make money, because all the hypocritical states in europe say: "don't smoke, because it hurts, you die, health care is expensive"..., but everyone collects the money from tobacco, everyone collects the money from tobacco. this is the reality. this is the greatest hypocrisy, and of this cigarette in my mouth only a very small part goes to the tobacco manufacturers, who are perhaps a little enslaved and earn very little, but the vast majority goes to what? advertising, and of course trying to feed as many of those political chickens as possible. it's very simple. that's what's happening. so, less campaigning, less hypocrisy and try to really make a difference. and then, dear commissioner, you come here, but i would like to know, tell us, show us, if you have ever taken, let's say... if you are friends with someone from philip morris? did you ever get any help in the campaign? tell us, has your party ever had any help? just so we know, because at least then we're all clearer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe the fight against cigarette smuggling is a major battle, worth some 10 billion euros a year. to combat this scourge, the european union has concluded several agreements with the big tobacco companies. however, several years after the entry into force of these agreements, the results still do not seem satisfactory: the smugglers are still in business. there's a big problem with transparency. the commission must overcome the secrecy surrounding these agreements and ensure that any new agreements are negotiated in the open, so that parliament, and therefore the european citizens, can understand the pros and cons. in particular, given that the agreement with philip morris is due to expire in less than six months and that we only received the assessment of the agreement yesterday, i would ask the commission what concrete results have been achieved, what direction it intends to take to improve these agreements and what positive effects it would have on european citizens and the union's economy if these agreements were to be renewed.
in writing. for years the commission has continued to delay the publication of the evaluation of the agreement with philip morris, which expires in july, and parliament has continued to be kept in the dark about any contacts to renew the agreement. i would remind you that the agreements with the tobacco industry were the result of the commission's taking legal action against philip morris international and other companies for smuggling cigarettes. in fact, a large proportion of the contraband came directly from the farms producing the goods. philip morris has paid the member states one billion euros in 12 years, of which nobody knows anything. we do not know how these revenues, and the revenues from fines for seizures of original material, have been used by the member states. we know, however, that this is how philip morris has been able to secure its position in europe and in the member states. philip morris has been promised the use of its codentify technology to manage traceability systems before the commission adopts the delegated acts required by the tobacco directive and before the european union ratifies the world health organisation protocol on the same subject, rendering those agreements unnecessary. i therefore believe that they should not be renewed and that the protocol should be ratified as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say one thing, and i ask for your attention because it is a very serious matter that has happened and has been reported in the italian press in recent days. we have learned that the united states of america, according to the wikileaks website, in another chapter of the datagate, intercepted then prime minister silvio berlusconi, in 2011 and even earlier, and his close associates. so after germany, after france, italy is also being intercepted by an allied country. i quote president schulz, who said the other day on an italian programme: "is a very serious matter, because it is not right that the allied countries are being intercepted". the italian government is checking with the united states, and we ask that the european parliament also be reopened to investigate the activities of espionage against europe, that investigation that was closed in march 2014. we do not want to see suspicion and shadows between allied countries and so we ask parliament to help us to clarify this because otherwise the delicate trade negotiations could also be put at risk, as well as the sharing of data which is otherwise important.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we would just like to stress, also on our part, that the news we have heard from the press revealing espionage activities by us organizations against european countries is very alarming and disturbing news. it is something we cannot resign ourselves to just because it is done everywhere, because everyone is doing it. i dream of countries and relations between countries based on transparency, fairness and respect for each other's autonomy, and i want to fight for this. i think that this is the direction that the european parliament must take.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a nutshell: we have been informed by the services of parliament that there was a mistake on amendment no 13, because we had not clearly inserted any reference to banking union, but to structural reform of the banking system, and instead 'banking union' was inserted, so the amendment is without the words 'banking union'.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters aims to harmonise the legal systems of the acceding countries. the rapid transmission of information on judicial acts is certainly in the interest of the european union and the convention has proved to be an excellent tool for speeding up the cross-border service of such acts. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the authorization.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the uspaskich report on the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify, and malta to accede, to the hague convention of 15 november 1965. the convention, which has already been applied by 26 eu member states, establishes a system whereby judicial and extrajudicial documents may be served in another signatory state. since it is not possible for the eu to accede to the convention as such, although it is a matter of exclusive competence of the union, authorisation from the council has been required to allow the two countries to accede to this important international treaty.
in writing. ‒ the report is shareable and free of criticism. i support the authorization of austria and malta to accede to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
in writing. ‒ the 1965 hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters aims to simplify the procedures for the transmission of such documents between the contracting states. this convention facilitates judicial cooperation in the event of transnational civil or commercial litigation. twenty-six of the 28 member states already apply the convention. the only countries missing are austria and malta, which have expressed their wish to join. the european parliament must help to strengthen and improve judicial cooperation in europe and it is therefore its task to ensure the accession of austria and malta to this convention, with the aim of improving mutual judicial assistance to this end by simplifying and speeding up the procedure.
in writing. - i vote for it. austria and malta have already formally expressed their wish to join; the vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede respectively to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby acts may be served in another signatory state and is already applied in 26 of the 28 member states. the two remaining member states, austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proved its usefulness in the field of cross-border service of documents. furthermore, it is in the interest of the union as a whole that the two member states in question have a uniform system for the notification of acts in cross-border relations with third countries. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this proposal for a decision authorizing austria and malta to accede to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the 1965 hague convention lays down common rules on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. it is therefore an important tool to promote the streamlining of the crossborder civil justice system, to which most member states have long since acceded. the delegation of the five star movement therefore voted in favour of austria and malta's accession to the convention. in order to create a single european area of justice, it is of fundamental importance that member states coordinate their actions in order to speed up the processing of judgments involving links with third countries and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i recognise the proven usefulness of the hague convention of 15 november 1965 in the field of crossborder service of documents and i believe that it is in the interest of the union as a whole and of the two member states in question to have a uniform system for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ in a europe of 28 member states, it is good that disparities between one member state and another are not created. i voted in favour of this draft decision because i believe that austria and malta, the last two countries which have not yet applied the hague convention, had no right to continue to create islands of anarchy within our territory. in fact, the knowledge that documents, whether judicial or extrajudicial, could not be transmitted automatically created perverse incentives which were finally eliminated.
in writing. ‒ regarding the recommendation drawn up by the european parliament on the council decision authorising austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede to the 1965 hague convention, i decided to vote in favour, as this would allow these states to be able to notify and communicate to third countries, which are also parties to the convention, judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. this practice has proved to be very useful and effective because by adopting a uniform system all member states will benefit from better information sharing and greater cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby acts may be served in another signatory state. it should be clarified that the convention applies only to acts intended for or originating in third countries. the convention is already applied in 26 of the 28 member states. the two remaining member states, austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. the union should therefore authorise the member states concerned to act on its behalf in order to accede to the convention. since the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proved its usefulness in the field of crossborder service of documents and since it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the two member states concerned to have a uniform system for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries, it is proposed that parliament give its consent to the proposal for a decision authorising austria and malta to accede to that convention. it seems to me a good report and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure to enable austria and malta to ratify and accede respectively to the hague convention of 15 november 1965. i believe that it is in the interest of both the european union and the two member states to have a uniform system for the notification of acts in relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report authorising austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede to the convention of 15 november 1965.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede, respectively, in the interest of the european union, to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. the convention, which establishes a system for the service of documents to and from a foreign country, has proved to be very useful in the field of crossborder service of judicial and extrajudicial documents with third countries. in order to achieve a more uniform and robust system in the interests of the european union itself, i therefore recommend that austria and malta, which are currently the only two countries in the union not to be party to the convention, accede to it.
in writing. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters may be served in another signatory state. it is already applied in 26 of the 28 member states. the two remaining member states, austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. the european union should therefore authorise the member states to accede to the convention. having a uniform system for the notification of acts in cross-border relations with third countries is in the interest of both the union and the two member states concerned. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising the republic of austria to sign and ratify and malta to accede, respectively, in the interest of the european union, to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. the purpose of this convention is to create the means for judicial and extrajudicial documents which are to be served abroad to reach the addressees in good time and thus to improve mutual legal assistance by simplifying and speeding up the procedure. it is therefore in the interest of both the european union and the two states concerned to have a uniform system for the notification of acts in cross-border relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby acts may be served in another signatory state. the convention is already applied in 26 of the 28 member states. the two remaining member states, austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ it is common knowledge that the hague convention of 15 november 1965 provides for the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. at present, 26 of the 28 member states are already parties to it. austria and malta, the last two remaining countries, have expressed their willingness to join. since the convention does not allow for the possibility of accession by international organisations, the eu, which has exclusive external competence in this area, must authorise these states to act on its behalf. i believe it is important that all member states are parties to the convention, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system whereby acts may be served in another signatory state. the convention applies only to acts intended for or originating in third countries. it is in the interest of both the union as a whole and the member states to have a uniform system for the notification of acts in cross-border relations with third countries. i therefore welcome the fact that austria and malta have expressed their willingness to accede to the hague convention. these are the last two eu member states that had not yet joined. i therefore voted in favour of their accession to the convention.
in writing. ‒ the issue of fiscal and financial cooperation is relevant from the point of view of compliance with tax obligations at international level. the european union and the republic of san marino have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents in order to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. this should lead to an improvement in the present situation. however, the agreement still contains regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the van nieuwenhuizen report because i am convinced that the agreement signed by the eu and the republic of san marino on 8 december 2015 represents an important step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. a first agreement was signed in 2004 guaranteeing measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. these new measures will make it easier to enforce its tax legislation in cross-border situations, more effectively assessing cases of tax evasion and thus avoiding superfluous investigations.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino represents an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion. that's why i voted for him.
in writing. ‒ the eu must improve its agreement with san marino to ensure that it continues to apply fiscal measures equivalent to those of the eu. the importance of automatic exchange of information as a tool to combat cross-border tax fraud and evasion by ensuring maximum transparency and cooperation between tax administrations has also been recognised at international level. in order to minimise costs and administrative burdens for both tax administrations and economic operators, it is essential to ensure that the amendment of the current agreement on taxation of savings income with san marino is in line with eu and international developments. this will increase tax transparency in europe and will provide the legal basis for the application of the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of information between san marino and the eu. the text of the amending protocol resulting from the negotiations needs to be approved by the european parliament, as it aligns the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of income in the form of interest payments.
in writing. - i vote for it. the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and improves on the 2004 agreement which ensured that the republic of san marino applied measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in this chamber, i have given my favourable vote to the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino, on the following grounds: the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion; it improves the 2004 agreement which ensured the application by the republic of san marino of measures equivalent to those contained in the eu savings income tax directive. i agree with the rapporteur that the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the new agreement also provides for the unconditional exchange of information on request, in line with the latest developments in oecd and eu work in this area.
in writing. ‒ the resolution expresses the european parliament's favourable opinion on the conclusion of a protocol to the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on measures equivalent to those laid down in directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income. the protocol amending the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. under the agreement as amended, the eu and san marino will exchange automatically relevant tax information as from 2017. this is an important measure to combat money laundering and tax evasion and the delegation of the five star movement therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the automatic exchange of financial information between the eu and san marino for tax purposes improves cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations and is also an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. the agreement is intended to ensure that the republic of san marino applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework. as a result of the arrangement, the tax administrations of the member states and san marino will be able to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax legislation in cross-border situations and to assess more effectively the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i share the legal purpose, although the practical aspect leaves me puzzled. in fact, while it is right that the savings of the citizens of rimini and those of those who live only a few kilometres away are not subject to completely different conditions, i am not sure that the eu should exert its pressure as an economic giant to get san marino to legislate differently from what its citizens want. however, as an italian politician i must admit that in these times we must use all possible resources and leave some citizens the possibility of escaping, knowing that this is happening, it is irresponsible.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino because it is an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, which will make it possible to counter attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european union and san marino have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this is the third of a package of five agreements, covering switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, andorra and monaco. although these agreements bring improvements, they do in fact solve most of the problems with all these countries. on the basis of this agreement, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2016, in order to step up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which they consider to be one of the most sensitive countries in this regard. the agreement certainly contains improvements compared with the present situation, but it is equally true that a more comprehensive and in-depth agreement could and should have been sought, since it still leaves several regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome. that is why i have decided to abstain during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because it represents an important step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. this decision will allow the european union and the republic of san marino to exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of their respective residents. a step towards clarity and accountability to ensure fiscal fairness and financial transparency at a delicate time for the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the fight against capital derived from tax evasion and illicit activities is one of the union's priorities. the eu-san marino agreement is positive, as i consider it essential that the republic of san marino complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. it will be possible to assess with greater certainty and transparency possible tax evasion and avoid superfluous investigations.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the agreement, which represents a step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement between the european union and san marino on compliance with international tax obligations, signed in december 2015, marks an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion and ensures the automatic exchange of financial information to identify, without error and without delay, the taxpayers concerned.
in writing. on 8 december 2015, the european union and the republic of san marino signed an agreement aiming to strengthen cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation at international level. the primary objective is to deal promptly with cases where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion. it is therefore necessary for the republic of san marino to align with eu standards by complying with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. finally, i would like to stress that the agreement provides for an unconditional exchange of information on request, in line with the latest developments in the work of the oecd and the eu in this field. i have decided to vote in favour not only because of the above but also because it will be ensured that the information exchanged will cover income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and the proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. this report represents the continuing commitment to combat tax fraud and evasion. under the new agreement, the eu and the republic of san marino will exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december 2015, the european union and the republic of san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. i voted in favour of amending the agreement so that the administrations of the member states and san marino are able to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax legislation in cross-border situations and finally to assess the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement concluded between the european union and the republic of san marino on 8 december 2015 provides for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, which is an important step in the fight against fraud and tax evasion. in fact, the purpose is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital by assessing whether there is a criminal offence. i welcome the commitment of the two players in this respect and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of san marino, in order to ensure compliance with international tax obligations, have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts of their respective residents. the aim of this agreement, which will officially enter into force as of 2017, is to address the situation where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion. i voted in favour of approving this agreement because it represents a further step forward in the fight against fraud and tax evasion at european level.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december 2015, the european union and the republic of san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations, which will enter into force from 2017. the agreement is part of the european union's wider effort to improve transparency and cooperation in tax matters both between member states and with neighbouring countries, and in particular to combat the existence of tax havens. the differences between tax systems cannot allow tax avoidance and evasion, which leads to lost revenue in countries already deeply affected by the crisis, an unbalanced distribution of costs among taxpayers and unfair competition between large multinationals and less "smart" companies, smes and the self-employed.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the republic of san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters on 8 december 2015, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. i have decided to support the conclusion of the agreement as it represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. as of 2017, the eu and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, with the aim of addressing situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion. the agreement, which has been brought into line with global oecd standards, also ensures that the information exchanged will cover not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and income from financial activities.
in writing. ‒ the european union and san marino have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this is the third of a package of five agreements, covering switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, andorra and monaco. although these agreements bring improvements, they are still far from solving in practice most of the problems with all these countries. on the basis of that agreement, as of 2016, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, in order to step up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which san marino is one of the most sensitive countries in these respects. the agreement certainly contains improvements compared with the present situation, but it is equally true that a more comprehensive and in-depth agreement could and should have been sought, since it still leaves several regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests introduced a simplified method for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 tfeu. the date on which the conventions will enter into force for croatia has been fixed by this agreement. i voted in favour of allowing the harmonization of croatian legislation within the european legal framework.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the zdechovský report on croatia's accession to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. this is a technical measure which merely approves a recommendation from the commission to the council. although the 2011 act of accession of the republic of croatia provides for the automatic accession of the balkan state to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 4 teu, a council decision is necessary to determine the date of entry into force of those conventions.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is shared and free from criticism. it will ensure croatia's accession to the 1995 convention on the protection of the eu's financial interests, thus safeguarding the union against any fraud committed, especially in the use of community funds. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union of 2011 introduces a simplified system for croatia's accession to conventions (and protocols) concluded by member states. the list includes the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, the protocols of 27 september 1996 and 29 november 1996 and the second protocol of 19 june 1997, all adopted on the basis of title vi of the treaty on european union and aimed at creating a common basis for the criminal protection of the european communities' financial interests. accession is important in order to protect the financial interests of the european union against fraud. the fact that the member state of croatia is now allowed to accede to the convention and its protocols is an act owed to the republic of croatia and useful in the context of european judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. - i vote for it. with croatia's accession to the european union, the country also joins the convention, which has been in force since 1995, aimed at protecting the financial interests of the european union and its taxpayers in cases of fraud. croatia as a new eu member will now become a party to this convention, which is not controversial and is not politically problematic as it protects the union from fraud mostly in the use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the 2011 act of accession of the republic of croatia introduces a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. the act provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession. to this end, the council shall adopt a decision fixing the date on which these conventions will enter into force for croatia and shall make all the necessary adjustments to the conventions as a result of the accession of the new member state (including the adoption of the conventions in the croatian language, so that these versions 'shall be equally authentic'). the act of accession lists the conventions and protocols concerned, which are intended to create a common basis for the criminal protection of the financial interests of the european communities.
in writing. ‒ the dossier recommends that the council adopt a positive decision on croatia's accession to the 1995 convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and the protocols thereto. it is important that croatia should also sign the convention and our delegation voted strongly in favour.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the measure as i believe it is appropriate to introduce a simplified system for croatia's accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. such an act will be an important step forward for croatia, which will once again demonstrate its determination to embrace the common principles of the eu, specifically accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests.
in writing. ‒ croatia, the latest country to join the eu, is slowly catching up with all the necessary fulfilments. the big picture was already set on 1 july, when the eu welcomed its 28 member states, but there are still some details to be worked out, on which we can only agree. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of croatia to the european union in 2011 allows for the simplification of its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded between member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty. in this connection, i welcome croatia's willingness to become a contracting party to the treaties on the protection of the european communities' financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the proposal is to adopt a decision on the accession of croatia to the 1995 convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and the protocols thereto. the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union introduced a simplified method for croatia's accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu. i welcome the decision taken by the council to determine the date of entry into force for croatia of these conventions and protocols, but also to facilitate the implementation of the amendments necessary for the accession of the new member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a decision on croatia's accession to the european commission's conventions on the protection of financial interests. those conventions ensure the establishment of a common legal basis for the criminal protection of the european community's financial interests in croatia. i believe that this is a fundamental step for croatia's integration into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision concerning the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, the protocol of 27 september 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, the protocol of 29 november 1996 concluded on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union concerning the interpretation by the court of justice of the european communities, by way of a preliminary ruling, of the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and the second protocol of 19 june 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. in july 2013, the republic of croatia became the 28th and, so far, the last country to join the european union and the act of accession introduces a simplified system of extension of the conventions and protocols to croatia. i therefore hope that the council will adopt a decision as soon as possible, setting the timetable for the entry into force of these acts for croatia, as indicated in the commission's recommendation.
in writing. the 2011 act of accession of the republic of croatia introduces a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 (ex article k.3) of the treaty on european union. the aim is to encourage the adoption of sanctions to combat fraud in expenditure and revenue which may affect the community's financial interests. member states are required to take the necessary measures to ensure that such conduct is punishable by effective criminal penalties and that company directors are held criminally liable for having harmed the financial interests of the community. i believe that croatia's accession to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests fully reflects the spirit and commitment of the eu in this field and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the convention aims to protect the financial interests of the european union and its taxpayers by criminal law, provides a harmonised legal definition of fraud and requires its signatories to adopt criminal sanctions in the event of fraud. in accordance with article 3 (4) of the act of accession, croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols concluded between the member states, listed in annex i to the act of accession, including the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduces a simplified system for the accession of croatia to conventions concluded by member states on the basis of article 34 (ex article k.3) of the treaty on european union. i was in favour of the council adopting a decision setting the date on which these conventions enter into force for croatia and making all the necessary adjustments to the conventions as a result of the accession of the new member state.
in writing. ‒ consider that, through the act of accession, croatia has the opportunity to benefit from a facilitated procedure for accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu. the scheme is operational only if the council acts on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting parliament. i am therefore voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the republic of croatia, by virtue of the 2011 act of accession, will accede to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. article 3 (5) of the act of accession provides that the council is to adopt a decision fixing the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia in order to make any adjustments which may be necessary as a result of the accession of the new member state. in view of the fact that the conventions and their protocols entered into force before 2011, no adaptations were necessary. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 act of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union introduces a simplified system for croatia's accession to conventions and protocols concluded by member states. the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, which entered into force in 2002, aims to create a common legal basis for the protection of financial interests. it provides a harmonised legal definition of fraud and requires signatories to adopt effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions to tackle fraud affecting the eu's financial interests. i voted in favour of the report because it formalises croatia's accession to the convention following its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the serious problem of unemployment in some regions of europe requires a decisive strengthening of the mobility of workers in the union. the amendments to the regulation, which were introduced with the contribution of the five star movement, provide for a number of improvements to the european employment services network (eures) in order to make it easier for users to use it. the member states also undertake to inform citizens about eures and a programme to monitor the performance of the platform is being set up. i have decided to vote in favour of making these substantial improvements to the european network of employment services.
in writing. ‒ following the global economic crisis, which has led to a sharp rise in unemployment rates, there is a growing need for effective measures to promote genuine integration between the labour markets of the eu member states. in this context, the strengthening of the eures network can be a great opportunity for millions of european citizens. i strongly supported the becker report because i believe it is essential to establish a truly accessible european platform that provides complete and adequate information to all those who are looking for a job. the integration of apprenticeships and traineeships, which involve regular employment contracts, can be a further incentive to strengthen internal mobility, including for those who are completing a training course. the development of an effective network requires regular evaluation mechanisms to allow for changes to be made, where necessary, to ensure the success of the european strategy. the report contains these elements and i have therefore decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ mr becker's report analyses the revision of the rules governing the european network of employment services (eures). i am aware that eures is one of the instruments through which the principle of free movement of workers is applied, that it was created by the schengen agreements, and that the schengen agreements have now lost their raison d'être, since they no longer guarantee freedom and security within the union, but are instead the vehicle of mass immigration and the consequent european social insecurity, so i did not intend to support this report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ since its establishment in 1993, the european network of employment services (eures) has made an important contribution to facilitating employment and mobility within the european economic area. nevertheless, mobility in europe has so far remained relatively low, failing to achieve an effective balance at european level between demand and supply of labour. as the right to work based on free movement is a prerogative of all european citizens and one of the union's founding principles, i welcome this report which aims to make this fundamental instrument more effective. the reinforcement of the eures network, to be achieved in particular through closer cross-border cooperation between the various national employment services and the social partners, will, inter alia, enable: better information for jobseekers and employers; a wider choice of employment opportunities at european level; a better match between job offers and skills through the multilingual common classification system of skills, qualifications and occupations (esco), with the aim of facilitating the meeting of workers and employers from different countries, facilitating access to the opportunities and requirements they seek.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, more than 1.1 million eu citizens living in one eu country crossed the borders to work in a neighbouring country every day. in addition, 7 million european citizens live and work permanently in other eu countries than the one in which they were born. this is a positive development because the free choice of work within the eu is an integral part of freedom of movement, which is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union as provided for in the treaty of rome (along with the free movement of goods, services and capital) and therefore a central element of eu citizenship. initiatives to promote the free movement of citizens within the union can be combined with those to tackle the serious problem of unemployment in certain regions of europe: enhancing labour mobility in the union will provide greater opportunities for workers to find the right job offer more quickly and efficiently. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment.
in writing. - i vote against. it is the revision of the rules governing the european network of employment services (eures), established in implementation of regulation (eu) no 492/2011 on the free movement of workers within the union. the aim of this revision is to give the commission a greater role in order to achieve 'greater integration of labour markets' through increased cross-border labour mobility. in short, eures is part of the instruments for implementing the principle of free movement of labour. this principle - schengen - is one of the two pillars on which the eu is based (the other is the free movement of capital: maastricht). pillars crumbling in plain sight. the final vote must therefore be against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets. the freedom to seek employment within the eu is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu and a central element of eu citizenship. the serious problem of unemployment in the regions of southern europe makes it necessary to strengthen labour mobility in the union. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market aimed at achieving the europe 2020 targets of a 75% employment rate for the 20-64 age group. labour mobility within the eu is modest in relation to the size of the labour market and the union's working population: the mobility rate within the eu is only 0.29%. the objective of this regulation is to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers or employers interested in labour mobility within the eu by making accessible and transparent a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe.
in writing. ‒ the level of unemployment in some regions of the union remains extremely worrying. in addition to measures to create new jobs, action is also needed to improve the integration of markets. the mobility of workers, which is still low compared with potential, must therefore be strengthened, and at the same time the immediacy with which employers can meet the supply of labour. to this end, the european employment services network (eures) should become more efficient, thanks to the positive changes this report makes to its rules. the delegation of the five star movement therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eures network has given many people the opportunity to find employment within the european union and has been a tool that has helped to achieve the free movement of workers, as provided for in article 45 of the treaty. the new needs of the labour market and the growing demand for people looking for work across national borders - the number of portal subscribers is estimated to have increased from 175 000 to 1 200 000 between 2007 and 2013 - demonstrate the explosion in demand, but this has not been followed by an increase in labour mobility. a shortcoming due to the fact that the system needed to be modified because, as it is organized, it was not able to cope with a constantly increasing demand. the extension of the local and transnational partnership network, envisaged in the proposal for a regulation, increases the possibility of meeting the demand for and supply of labour and at the same time increases the mobility of workers. following continued demand, eures will be extended to trainees, a sign that young people see the eu as a single large labour market. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that eures offers real employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the free choice of workplace within the eu is an integral part of the freedom of movement, which is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and therefore a central element of eu citizenship. the aim of the regulation is to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers or employers interested in labour mobility within the eu by making accessible and transparent a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe. the serious problem of unemployment in some regions of europe makes it necessary to strengthen labour mobility in the union, to provide more opportunities for workers and to help employers to meet the labour supply more quickly and efficiently. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that this proposal for a regulation has been adopted, and i am proud to have contributed by voting in favour. in fact, measures such as this one show a europe that is not only obligations and bureaucracy, but also opportunities and work, diversification of life prospects, broadening of one's horizon and increasing the chances of living happily. what's the point of moving from the country to the city if you're going to do a job that doesn't satisfy you humanly? i shall be glad to see, when this regulation is fully implemented, young people making their way on the basis of their passions and not geographical boundaries.
in writing. ‒ labour mobility within the european union is still modest in relation to the size of the labour market and the union's active population. the free choice of workplace in the labour market is an integral part of the freedom of movement, which is one of the main fundamental freedoms of the european union and therefore a central element of european citizenship. the serious problem of unemployment in some regions requires strengthening labour mobility in the union, providing more opportunities for workers and helping employers to meet the labour supply more quickly and efficiently. the purpose of this regulation is to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers or employers. the platform will be easily accessible and as user-friendly as possible. for these reasons, i am in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ eures is a network to promote cooperation between the european commission and the public employment services (pes) of the member countries of the european economic area (eea) in order to exchange information on job vacancies and facilitate the mobility of workers within the eu. given the shortcomings identified in the eures network, amendments to the regulation have been made, mainly to improve the incompleteness of information on job vacancies, the shortage of apprenticeships and traineeships, the unequal access to eures services overcome by improving communication between jobseekers and employers, the limited availability to assist jobseekers and employers who have expressed an interest in labour mobility, to facilitate access and dissemination as widely as possible. i am voting in favour of this regulation because its aim is to make eures a more effective, transparent and accessible instrument in a time of serious crisis in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the increasing interdependence between labour markets requires closer cooperation between employment services in order to ensure greater mobility for workers and to contribute to the social inclusion and integration of people excluded from the labour market across the european union. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution because it promotes an instrument which i believe is very useful and which is aimed at creating a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and greater integration of labour markets. i voted to promote the movement of workers, to eliminate any discrimination between european citizens and to help workers who have the right to work in another member state to exercise that right effectively and to protect their families.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above-mentioned proposal for a regulation, which aims to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers or employers interested in labour mobility within the eu. through this implementation the meeting between supply and demand will be more accessible and transparent, while keeping labour market policy, including all support measures, within national competence.
in writing. ‒ i am against the proposal because eures is the implementing instrument of schengen, a treaty which should be completely revised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the ep and the council on the adoption of a regulation on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and greater integration of labour markets, because i strongly support the need to revitalize the eures network through a single platform that includes jobseekers and existing job offers in the member states, while improving the matching of supply and demand in the eu labour market. i believe it is very useful for young job seekers and skilled workers in general, who are looking for better job opportunities, that job vacancies in the public services of each member state are available on the new portal, the aim of which is to meet the needs of the market in order to bridge the current gap between the two million job vacancies in the eu and the unemployment rate, which in some member states is reaching high levels, particularly among young people. the extension of the platform's membership to private organisations will further facilitate the meeting of labour supply and demand in a cross-border context.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the essential elements for the development of a more integrated labour market in the union is the free movement of workers. more than 1.1 million european citizens living in one eu country cross national borders to work in a neighbouring country. it is therefore necessary to offer more opportunities to workers and to help employers to meet supply in order to strengthen labour mobility within the community. in this context, the eures network plays a key role as the main communication channel through which the service interacts with all actors, in particular workers and employers. the text voted today aims to improve and make more effective this network by making accessible and transparent a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe. given the crisis and the unemployment levels in the various member states, today's vote is certainly an example of a do-it-yourself policy which i hope will soon be able to produce tangible results.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets. the free choice of workplace within the european union is a central element of the fundamental freedoms of the european union. the proposal under consideration aims to strengthen the eures (european employment services) network, a network of services designed to facilitate the international mobility of community workers, by making it an effective tool for workers and employers, with a wide range of jobs and jobseeker profiles in europe, accessible and transparent.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on european employment services. the agreement reached during the trilogue, together with the european commission and the european council, is ambitious in that it seeks to reform an area of crucial importance for the economic recovery of european countries, namely employment. the new eures format, which has been achieved thanks to the constant efforts of the socialist and democratic group, will allow a better match between demand and supply on the labour market through improvements that will create a completely redesigned platform with new functionalities. in its new structure, eures involves all levels of the social partners involved in the protection of workers' rights. it also provides for the first time the possibility of creating transnational partnerships between the countries of the european union. the agreement will make it easier for young people to undertake traineeships in public and private institutions in other member states, while ensuring that european regulations on rights are respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr becker's report because the objective of this regulation is to make the eures network an effective tool for jobseekers or employers interested in labour mobility within the eu by making accessible and transparent a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe. it should be ensured that all jobseekers receive full information on working conditions and services offered at the workplace.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and greater integration of labour markets. firstly, i am convinced that greater mobility of workers within the eu will provide them with more employment opportunities and help employers to fill their vacancies more quickly and efficiently. this will contribute to the development of a european labour market characterised by a high level of employment. i also believe that the eures network should be made an effective tool for all eu workers, jobseekers or employers interested in labour mobility within the eu. finally, i would like to emphasize that the advantages of common european standards are obvious: jobseekers and employers will be able to better understand the profile of the other party. a european standard for job descriptions and jobseeker profiles would be a huge step towards a more integrated european labour market.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that one of the four fundamental freedoms is freedom of movement, which includes the freedom to choose one's place of work. the strengthening of eures, which would make it easier for demand and supply to meet, will create the conditions for further development within the eu. in assessing the need to give greater impetus to the labour market, i consider it necessary to strengthen the eures network. i therefore say that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the high rate of unemployment in europe, particularly among young people, makes it necessary to strengthen labour mobility within the union. we need to provide more opportunities for workers and help employers to meet the labour supply more quickly and efficiently. the objective of this regulation is to make the eures network a more effective tool for jobseekers and employers interested in labour mobility within the eu by making accessible and transparent a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe. apprenticeships and traineeships should also be included in the european network. i believe that eures is a very important and promising tool which can provide practical help to european citizens looking for a job. i therefore voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation because i agree with its aim of increasing the dynamics of labour mobility by contributing to a better integration of labour markets at european level. turning the existing eures network into an effective tool for jobseekers and employers, and making a large pool of job vacancies accessible and transparent, means helping our young people to build their future.
in writing. ‒ eures is a very useful tool for jobseekers or employers interested in labour mobility within the eu. the european network of employment services makes accessible and transparent a large pool of job vacancies and profiles in demand across europe. statistics show that more than one million eu citizens cross borders to work in a neighbouring country every day, and the number of people living in a member state other than their home country has increased by almost 60% following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements. in this context, i believe that the eures portal is a unique opportunity for those seeking a job within europe. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it aims to make the network more accessible and easier to use, improving transparency, information exchange and functionality. i hope that these measures will help to provide more opportunities for workers and help employers to meet the demand for work more quickly and efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the latest european statistics show very low rates of mobility (0.29%), which is not in favour of the free movement of workers within the european union. this is due to language barriers and difficulties in finding work. i voted in favour of the european network of employment services, because it plays an important role in providing specific information and services, which benefit both employers and frontier workers. europe needs structures that facilitate mobility and create an integrated and balanced labour market, so as to reduce the gap between countries with high unemployment and those with labour shortages. we must not forget the disabled people, who are mentioned in the resolution, who need more support and easier access to services and information when they are looking for work. we at m5s support a labour market that provides more information on working conditions and services at the workplace. we believe that a person seeking employment abroad should have the same level of support as he would have in his home country.
in writing. ‒ free movement of workers is one of the essential elements of the development of a more integrated labour market, allowing greater mobility of workers, increasing diversity and contributing to the social inclusion and integration throughout the european union of people excluded from the labour market. it must be our mission to promote it. member states should be able to exclude certain categories of apprenticeships and traineeships from matching job vacancies and applications in order to ensure the coherence and functioning of their education systems and to take into account the need to tailor their active labour policy measures to the needs of the workers concerned by those measures. improving the quality of traineeships, in particular in relation to the content of learning and training and working conditions, is essential to facilitate the transition from education, unemployment or inactivity to work.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in tunis and sousse last year have made it difficult for tunisia to consolidate democracy. support for the maghreb country is one of the priorities of the union's foreign policy in the mediterranean area and an objective closely linked to maintaining stability in the middle east region. in an attempt to achieve these objectives, the commission has proposed as an autonomous, unilateral and temporary trade measure a tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year, totalling 70 000 tonnes, for tunisian olive oil exports to the union, without increasing the overall volume of imports. although i consider the commission's aim to be noble and to be shared, i voted against the de sarnez report because, as some of the key amendments proposed have been rejected, i believe that this measure could have a negative impact on the european and italian olive sector, without, however, having a positive effect on the tunisian economy. the tunisian producers themselves, moreover, expressed their strong concerns about the measures through the tunisian forum for economic and social rights (ftdes) and the tunisian general labour union (ugtt). i believe that the eu must find more effective and far-reaching options to support the tunisian economy and democratic institutions.
in writing. ‒ the willingness of the european union to help a friendly country such as tunisia, which is unfortunately facing an economic and political crisis and the threat of international terrorism with an islamic origin, which is destabilising large parts of africa and the middle east, is certainly commendable. however, the way to help the tunisian republic is wrong: a genuine aid cannot be reduced to a trade facilitation measure. to really help, we must create the conditions for a free trade area with common rules and parameters, with a view to structural cooperation based on shared principles of protection of civil and citizens' rights, consumers and producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's olive oil market is not affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ this measure is the result of a personal intervention by high commissioner mogherini to help tunisia, which is suffering from the crisis in the tourism sector following the recent attacks. the commission is also proposing to extend the tariff quota for olive oil to include olive oil from tunisia. it is clear that the price of this 'aid' would be paid only by certain member states such as italy, while for most it would be a zero-impact measure. moreover, this intervention would only favour the multinationals of the fake 'made in italy' who place on the union market huge quantities of olive oil that looks italian but is only partly italian when it is good. it should be added that: eu olive oil labelling rules do not allow consumers to recognise the origin of the oil they buy; there is very little certainty about the standards of plant health controls in tunisia; the commission has also proposed that the italian authorities should be given the possibility of granting a discount to the producers of 100% italian olive oil in comparison with their competitors, since the measure would in fact reduce the cost of raw materials to a discount for multinational companies which already have much lower production costs. i am against the granting of the measures!
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the proposal to introduce emergency autonomous trade measures for the benefit of the tunisian republic and in favour of rejecting the proposal. i believe that the european union is obliged to assist the tunisian economy. however, this aid cannot be at the expense of olive oil producers. at present, the european commission's proposal could have a negative impact on the olive sector in the southern european countries and in particular in italy. i therefore voted in favour of four corrective amendments which i tabled with my colleagues in the agri committee of the european parliament. unfortunately, only two of the four corrective amendments were adopted and i therefore voted against the whole proposal, as announced in my speech in plenary on this point. the ball now goes to the council, where i hope the governments of the member states, particularly those of southern europe, will succeed in promoting the interests of the oil companies.
in writing. i am in favour of free trade because of the usual arguments that we all know about efficiency, the incentive to improve, and so on. i think, however, that an important aspect of the economic models used to prove the free trade theses is often underestimated: there are some assumptions that are not valid when we talk about agricultural goods. my vote to close down tunisian oil is not a protectionist vote, although that is the effect, but a vote to defend consumers who would find on supermarket shelves two products that are apparently identical, but with a huge price difference, without the tools to go and check whether the quality is the same. i have always fought for the quality of agri-food products, and this case is no exception.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote against the proposal for a regulation because, although its aims are right, the instruments used to achieve the objectives are not at all correct, especially when we are talking about the import of over 70 000 tonnes of tunisian oil free of duty. we cannot mortify agriculture and specifically oil production in southern europe, as in the case of italy, which boasts a heritage of 250 million olive trees and is the only country with 533 varieties of olives and 43 oils protected by the european union, but above all a country where oil is one of the products that symbolise made in italy and the mediterranean diet. it is also unfair to all those apulian olive growers who have been fighting xylella for months.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because the fact that some of the amendments tabled in plenary were not adopted prevented some of the doubts and uncertainties raised by the measure from being dispelled. i have chosen not to vote against the request for the proposal to be rejected because i believe that as the eu we cannot be insensitive or uncommitted to what is happening on the other side of our sea, unless we bear the consequences of it. solidarity and aid cannot be "in words". on the other hand, i have found and find the measure hasty and poorly analytical in predicting the consequences on our productive tissues. that is why i have signed and supported a series of amendments which, without calling into question cooperation and solidarity with our neighbours, introduce important safeguard clauses, taking into account the needs of all, including european producers. unfortunately, only some of these amendments were accepted and this, in my view, has produced a still weak and deficient report which i did not feel i should support. i hope that in the further discussions with the council and the commission the spirit and the letter of the amendments can be recovered so that we have a proposal which is truly in solidarity with all the parties concerned.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia will allow the entry of 70,000 tonnes of zero-duty tunisian oil into the european union over the next two years. the aim of the proposal would be to revive a key sector of the tunisian economy after the tragic terrorist attacks that have brought the other key sector, tourism, into crisis. although the intention is therefore to be shared, the measures as proposed by the european commission do not effectively meet the need to support tunisia's economic recovery in a structural way. i am convinced that a strategy which integrates european cooperation and development policies with trade measures would instead make it possible to consolidate the tunisian olive production system and make it competitive in the long term, supporting more generally the economic and political stability of the country. on the contrary, they will bring limited benefits to tunisia, for a transitional period only. it has also been decided to introduce measures which will damage our products and increase the risk of fraud in the sector, to the detriment of quality and credibility with european consumers. i therefore voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ we, like m5s, are opposed to what is an ineffective form of eu solidarity at the expense of farmers in southern europe, in the specific case of olive oil producers. the south of italy, which has been hit hardest by the crisis and where the olive oil sector provides thousands of jobs, will be forced to suffer the most negative consequences of the measures to support tunisia envisaged by the european commission. we believe that there are other ways of helping, such as launching a plan for the establishment of a development fund in all sectors of the tunisian economy. germany and the nordic countries must share in the aid. the oil price is paid by the south of europe, and italy in particular.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report which increases the quantity of tunisian oil duty-free in europe. another mistake of this europe which has lost touch with reality. we must support the political and economic stabilisation of tunisia, but the european commission has completely misused its methods. i believe that a temporary measure in a specific area cannot consolidate the democratization of tunisia. this has been at the expense of an industry which is already in difficulty, owing both to structural factors such as the steady fall in selling prices and the increase in production costs and to extraordinary events, not least the spread of the bacterium 'xylella fastidiosa' in some member states. the entry of additional duty-free olive oil flows into the market would exacerbate these problems.
in writing. - i vote against the report which is a serious danger to the italian economy.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today in favour of an unacceptable measure which, by allowing the import of 70 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil for two years on a tax-free basis, is further damaging the situation of small oil producers in several european countries, particularly in italy. we have opposed these measures with other members of the forza italia delegation by submitting an amendment rejecting the commission proposal in order to state clearly our 'no'. although the solidarity motives behind this decision are fully understandable, we cannot accept that our aid depends solely on the sacrifice of italian and european oil producers.
in writing. ‒ supporting a nation that is painstakingly gaining the path to democracy and peace is the task of forward-looking politics. but helping a country does not mean worsening the living and working conditions of those who face the fragility of a sector which can and must be one of the jewels of italy's agricultural economy. it was a very difficult and intense discussion, but the game was finally reopened. the fact that two amendments have been approved allows the european institutions to reconcile their international policies in favour of the mediterranean countries with the support and promotion of olive growing in southern italy and puglia. the final vote has been postponed. it is now up to the italian government to adopt a balanced position in support of the italian farming enterprise system, taking account also of the employment risk in the agricultural sector. i hope that in the coming days we will not continue to "unload the barrel" on those who have made every useful effort to correct the course.
in writing. the commission's proposal to open an extra quota of 35 thousand tonnes of tunisian olive oil duty free for the years 2016 and 2017 is a serious damage to us and, at the same time, will not bring any benefit to the tunisian people. the opening up of the market is not going in the right direction, because i think it is unthinkable to give tunisia practical aid by lowering import duties. fortunately, with our work, we were able to amend part of the proposal in order to limit some negative effects, by eliminating the possibility of extending these extraordinary measures, which will therefore end in 2017, and by requiring that the oil be entirely obtained in tunisia and transported directly to the eu. the adoption of these amendments, which have already been supported by the committee on agriculture, is essential because it blocks the initial proposal and brings the discussion back to the council, so that negotiations with the member states can begin. i voted against it, however, because the aim of solidarity is certainly to be shared, but the instrument chosen is wrong. we cannot continue to trade, as has been done up to now, the agriculture of southern europe for the help of the people of north africa.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. it is important, however, to protect domestic products and to support those facing crises, such as the current crisis affecting the oil production sector. in this case, the vote is due to a need for protection.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently in a very difficult time, as its economy was hit hard by the 2015 sousse terrorist attack. the commission has therefore considered whether it would be appropriate to help the aforementioned state by giving it the opportunity to trade oil on favourable economic terms. i repeat my absolute disapproval of these decisions which risk undermining the economies of the mediterranean countries. while i believe that it is our duty to help countries in difficulty, such as tunisia, i do not think it would be appropriate to adopt decisions which would have a very serious economic impact on the agricultural sectors of the countries of southern europe. another way could and should have been found to help tunisia humanitarian and economically, without undermining the economies of some european countries and their citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these trade measures in favour of tunisia because i believe they are harmful to the internal markets of europe, especially those of the mediterranean. i do not dispute the idea itself, namely to help tunisia, which is too important for us, even in terms of migration flows, but i do criticise the means chosen by the european commission to help them. the unilateral tariff concessions on 35,000 tonnes of oil over two years mean undermining our market, especially the italian market, and destroying all the smes that produce quality oil.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in sousse, tunisia, on 26 june 2015, the european union decided to introduce certain emergency autonomous trade measures in favour of the republic of tunisia. these measures allow the duty-free import of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil for two years, in addition to the 56 700 tonnes already covered by the eu-tunisia association agreement. the commission notes that the agreement between the parties to the agreement, which allows additional temporary access for tunisian olive oil to the european market, risks inevitably undermining the italian olive sector, which has only recently been showing a good level of growth after a severe crisis in 2014. the tunisian olive oil will certainly be marketed at prices lower than those of domestic production, affecting consumption and sales of quality italian olive oil. the oil industry is certainly one of the great assets of the italian agricultural sector, and i believe that it should be defended and protected. i have therefore decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european commission's proposal to allow the duty-free entry into the eu of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian oil per year for two years. i share the need to help tunisia: however, this is not the right way to go, as the commission's analysis shows that tunisian oil is likely to replace the current inward processing trade: it means that it will remain in the eu and will bring down the price of oil, harming producers in italy and other mediterranean countries, among others already harmed by the eu's austerity policies. i voted in favour of the amendments, which at least impose restrictive conditions: the first prevents the duty-free entry of tunisian oil into the eu from being extended, the second allows tunisian oil to enter the eu only if it comes exclusively from tunisian olives. the eu council will thus be able to discuss the import of tunisian oil again.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation of markets puts industrial sectors around the world in competition. the european glass industry has paid the price of global competition and in wallonia in particular, there has been a net decline in production for more than 15 years now. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of part of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 412 redundant workers and for the training of 100 young people from the belgian region of hainaut.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a tool to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. with the outbreak of the economic crisis, the european glass trade suffered numerous disruptions, which were combined with the loss of 32% of jobs in the sector in the decade 2000-2010. wallonia, a region with a long tradition in glassmaking, has seen several large companies encounter considerable difficulties, including hainaut-namur glass. i voted in favour of the zdechovský report because i share the need to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to the 412 former employees of the company. the mobilisation of the egf will help to provide a coordinated package of tools for training, job search, support for the creation of new enterprises and support for collective projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf to the value of eur 1 095 544 for 512 belgian workers employed in the glass industry. i am convinced that the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument for supporting citizens in this time of crisis, but i am equally firm in my belief that the eu must work to address the underlying malfunctions of the internal market as a whole rather than simply providing economic support to try to support its victims.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful for providing support to redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of new economic and financial crises of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market by updating their training and providing them with economic support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance to workers in undertakings which have suffered serious physical or mental disorders as a result of these events.
in writing. - i vote for it. the measures concern 412 redundant workers in two glass factories in the walloon provinces of hainaut and namur, as well as 100 neets under 25 in hainaut. the amount allocated is € 1 095 544 (60% of total costs). between 2000 and 2010, employment in the glass sector in europe decreased by 32%; wallonia, with its strong tradition of glass production, is suffering particularly. this measure follows closely on from the one already approved following the closure of saint-gobain sekurit in 2013 (257 redundancies).
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (the egf, set up to provide additional support for workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by belgium following the redundancies of 412 workers in the manufacture of other non-metallic mineral processing products. the belgian authorities state that the excesses are due to developments in the glass sector in europe, and in particular in belgium, in recent years, which have had a significant impact on glass production in wallonia. the long tradition of glassmaking in wallonia is confronted with the overcapacity of asia and the higher production costs and stricter environmental standards in europe. the surpluses therefore appear to be linked to changes in the structure of world trade. i therefore voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ the m5s delegation is in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund as a general rule. we are aware that it is probably not the best instrument to help workers, but in the absence of alternatives it must be supported. the delegation therefore voted in favour of mobilising in support of the 412 redundant workers affected by the crisis in the glass industry in wallonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i recognise the important role of the european globalisation adjustment fund in assisting workers whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global economic and financial crisis or as a result of a new global economic and financial crisis, so that they can be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. - this is a bad crisis. i am very sorry for workers who are in difficulty because of unfavourable economic conditions, and i feel a strong sense of responsibility when economic turbulence is due to poorly calibrated policies. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the public sector must be compensated when it causes damage, and in this case poorly governed globalisation has created redundancies in belgium which are finally compensated.
in writing. ‒ considering that belgium has submitted an application to mobilise the european fund to help 412 redundant workers and up to 100 neets (young people who are unemployed and not enrolled in education or training), i can only vote in favour because, according to the latest estimates published by eurostat, which show that the level of unemployment is still too high, any action taken to help european citizens in difficulty must be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ with regard to belgium's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for financial support to redundant workers, it should be recalled that the objective of the egf is to make available, in a rapid and efficient manner, financial support for the economic sector and for supporting workers who have lost their jobs. following the closure of the production plant in auvelais, in the region of namur, an application was submitted, pointing out that a difficult labour market situation is being faced. the belgian authorities have decided to start providing personalised services for the workers concerned, with measures aimed at supporting, guiding and integrating redundant staff and through supporting and setting up joint ventures and projects. i welcome the direct and targeted action of the belgian government in support of the workers and therefore i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i supported the mobilisation of the egf for belgium to facilitate the reintegration of redundant workers at hainaut-namur glass. the reason for the excesses is the significant changes in world trade which have affected the glass industry in europe in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on aid to glassworkers in wallonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to mobilise a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 095 544 requested by belgium to deal with the insolvency of two companies in the hainaut and namur regions because i believe it is important to urge the european commission to intervene in support of european glass-producing companies. i believe that the eu should adopt new policies to support this sector in all member states, given the severe crisis in the european industry due to the contraction in sales and international competition from third countries, as i have already had the opportunity to ask the commission in a written question on an eu strategy for glass. in this particular case, the closure of the plants has caused the redundancy of 412 workers, in addition to over 100 young people who are neither in education nor in employment and who will benefit from retraining measures. it is time for europe to adopt a comprehensive strategy for a sector which has lost some 32% of its jobs in a decade and has seen the closure of plants and businesses of historic tradition and fundamental importance to individual regions and local communities.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide support for workers affected by the crisis and the effects of major structural changes in world trade. the reason for the excesses we are discussing is the events which have affected the glass industry in europe, and particularly in belgium, in recent years. in addition to the effects of globalisation, the belgian authorities note that asia's overcapacity in this sector certainly plays a leading role. the application concerned 412 redundant workers and up to 100 young unemployed. i therefore thought i should vote in favour and support those workers in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: the commission considers that the application does not meet the requirements of the specifications of the egf regulation. there is a need for union financial support for redundant workers, which must be made available in an effective and needs-based manner. belgium, having applied for and complying with the requirements, will indeed have a sum to deal with the situation. finally, it should be stressed that there is a provision for neets, i.e. those who are not in training, working or actively seeking work, which contributes to lower productivity in the european union and is a reason for slowing down.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for an amount of about eur 1 million for belgium, involving 412 redundant workers and up to 100 young unemployed people.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in world trade. in view of the serious impact of the economic crisis on employment, belgium submitted an application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass for a financial contribution from the egf to support the sector which has been in a deep crisis. i think that the support for the proposal put forward by belgium should be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2015/007 be/hainaut-namur glass submitted by belgium. this application was made following the redundancy of 412 workers. the glass industry has suffered serious difficulties in recent years, due in particular to imports, which have increased dramatically, and foreign producers, who have gained an increasing share of the european market. some companies have been forced to close their production plants and restructure their workforce, resulting in a high number of redundancies. i hope that the mobilisation of the egf, amounting to eur 1 095 544, will prove to be a decisive instrument for supporting these workers and their families, as well as a valuable aid for the companies affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is the instrument promoted by the european union to provide support in the face of the challenges posed by the globalisation of markets. this application, the first under the 2016 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 1 095 544 for belgium. it covers 412 redundant workers and up to 100 young people who are unemployed and not enrolled in education or training (neets) in order to promote their employment. the two plants involved, belonging to the agc europe sa and saint-gobain glass benelux groups, were forced to close, in particular because of the strong competition from asian countries, which can produce without having to comply with the environmental and social constraints to which our companies are subject.
in writing. ‒ we have today approved the request to mobilise the egf from belgium, which applied for around eur 1 million to support 412 redundant workers affected by the crisis in the glass industry. in addition, the belgian authorities will offer personalised services co-financed by the egf to up to 100 young people in the hainaut region who are not in employment and not in any education or training. the event that triggered the redundancies was the closure in 2014 of two production plants in wallonia belonging to two companies, agc europe sa and saint-gobain glass benelux. it should be noted that between 2000 and 2010, with reference to the glass sector as a whole, employment decreased by 32% in europe (in particular in germany, poland, france and belgium) and for the first time since the mid-1960s glass production in belgium fell below 1 million tonnes in 2009, continuing to decrease by 5% in both 2011 and 2012. it should also be added that this is the fifth case of application for egf assistance in this sector, whose crisis is mainly due to very strong competition from the far east.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's contribution to the annual growth survey 2016 identified priorities for boosting growth and jobs in europe. the analysis lacks a critical view of the european policies adopted so far. the commission's line is therefore flat. references to policies to support public investment, employment and social equality are empty and insufficient. the text also supports the bankruptcy policy pursued so far and further strengthening the current economic governance structures and monetary union. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european union is experiencing a weak and uneven economic recovery across the member states. in this context, the problems of growth are inextricably linked to the persistence of tax evasion and avoidance, which, together with aggressive tax planning, continue to cause billions in potential losses to the public finances of the various countries. the rodrigues report on the annual growth analysis in the context of the european semester for economic policy coordination, which i supported with my vote, effectively underlines the strategy that the eu must adopt to deal with the problems generated by the structural crisis of 2008. the 2016 annual growth survey package is accompanied by a timely proposal that provides for a combination of investment policies, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the objective of promoting stronger growth rates and strengthening the recovery in europe is to achieve this through expansionary policies which also allow the deficit countries to use their flexibility to increase investment.
in writing. ‒ i find the report analysing the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016 unbalanced and not to be shared. i think that the text contains too many vague statements and there are no references at all to the very high costs to our companies and local authorities caused by the overproduction of european legislation and the rules imposed on the internal market. for these reasons i did not support this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of weak and volatile economic growth that is struggling to pick up, the economic governance priorities set out in the annual growth survey for 2016 remain to consolidate the recovery and promote upward convergence among member states by coordinating action around a combination of structural reforms, increased investment momentum and responsible fiscal policies. i appreciate that the report voted on today, which i support, moves away from the austerity mantra and puts particular emphasis on sustainable economic growth, based primarily on the revival of investment. but to achieve this, and thus to recover our growth potential, we must all make a decisive effort in this direction. in particular, countries with excessive budget surpluses should contribute more to supporting investment in europe and restoring domestic demand, while those currently in deficit should enjoy the degree of flexibility needed to carry out reforms and investments that can restart our economies. without coordinated and targeted action, we risk convergence to the downside, with a recovery that may never be fully realised.
in writing. ‒ european growth is still weak, with a trend albeit better than in previous years still too uncertain and which does not relieve european citizens of the fear of new recessionary spirals and of the risks arising from the consequences of the major global crises (instability and unreliability of the chinese market and of the economic and financial policies adopted by beijing, crises in the supply of gas and raw materials from non-european countries, insecurity and migration problems arising from the ongoing war events in the middle east and africa). it is time to move beyond the logic of austerity alone as the way out of the crisis and to realise that europe needs structural reforms and extraordinary measures such as a real investment plan of the european union to enable economic recovery.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report highlights not a few points, such as the 'fault' of the surplus countries which do not put the surplus back into circulation by increasing divergences, and it shows that there are countries which are gaining from the euro. however, the text does not at all point out "how" to solve these issues. we are of course in favour of dissolving the euro, but as long as we are in it, if we want to maintain a less than optimal currency area, we need internal transfers. and since they are told that surpluses must be put back into circulation, that there must be redistribution and that there are differences, why not make the surplus countries pay for transfers to the poor regions? the historical surplus must be considered. if you have noticed that the surplus of some states balanced by the deficit of others is "ugly", then let us look at the trillions of surpluses accumulated thanks to the euro by germany and put them back into circulation. if we look at today alone, we are also in surplus, domestic demand is zero, and we certainly export more than we import.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth analysis 2016. the european semester for economic policy coordination is a key element in coordinating the individual efforts of all member states in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, i believe that in addition to the short-term fiscal implications of structural reforms, the long-term environmental, economic and social effects should also be taken into account. we must not forget that the transition to a green economy and investment in more efficient health systems will increase the security of energy supply, improve the health and well-being of european citizens and create quality jobs, thus helping to restore the competitive edge of the european economy. the commission should also take into account in the priorities of the annual growth review and in the country-specific recommendations the shift towards a new economic model based on a circular economy, including the development of a fiscal framework that enhances the development of sustainable policies and complies with the polluter pays principle, which provides the right signals for investments in resource efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the report supports the commission's proposed bankruptcy strategy, insisting on the need to continue fiscal consolidation, structural reforms, private investment, full implementation of the stability and growth pact. there are many things that i think are missing from this text: the commission's proposals for the reform of the structural funds are based on the principle of the convergence of economic policies, which is the basis for the creation of a single market in the community. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is appropriate to strengthen the democratic character of european economic governance. the european parliament intends to contribute to the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester process of policy coordination by responding to the commission's annual growth survey and related documents. the european union is emerging from a long economic crisis which has caused severe social difficulties and eroded the potential for economic growth. at the same time, it is facing new challenges, in particular the threat of terrorist attacks, geopolitical instability in the neighbourhood and unprecedented large arrivals of asylum seekers. to ensure its political legitimacy, it is necessary to develop the means to meet these challenges.
in writing. ‒ this report has been rather controversial because of the attitude of the political party opposite to mine, which tends to discourage good practice and to put everyone in the same boat. in a european union covering 16 of its 28 countries under a common monetary umbrella, it is normal for economic policies to be coordinated. what is not normal is that, thanks to a monetary policy that blows on national sails, some member states are giving up on making those reforms which will allow the boat to sail again motu proprio. it is precisely on these issues that the two main groups have split and, thanks to well-chosen amendments, we have been able to improve the text so that we can vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report proposed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs as it is the report on the priorities of the european semester to improve growth in the european union in 2016. the proposals in the document aim to create a stronger economic recovery by creating quality jobs and restoring equal opportunities, without neglecting the major challenges, such as climate change, that need constant monitoring. i support the initiative which will enable member states to address structural challenges and contribute to a long-term strategy to undertake new investments in support of sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey 2016 report and the proposed combination of investment policies, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility aim to promote stronger growth levels and strengthen the recovery in europe. macroeconomic imbalances need to be addressed through a coordinated effort involving all member states, based on relevant reforms and investments. the report identifies the priorities for growth and jobs, but i believe that there is no adequate policy for a genuine energy union based on solidarity, and it is important that measures are taken to stimulate job creation, highlighting the importance of social protection systems. i am voting against the abovementioned problems.
in writing. ‒ the european semester 2016 shows a slowdown in growth prospects in eu countries due to a number of factors both external, such as economic and financial turmoil in many emerging economies, and internal to the eu, such as low growth potential and public debt. i therefore believe that it is important to take measures to promote economic growth and reduce macroeconomic imbalances. i voted in favour of the proposals contained in the european parliament's recommendation, which aim to improve policy coordination at european level through investment policies, structural reforms, better quality of public spending and fiscal responsibility.
in writing. ‒ investment policies, increased attention to domestic demand dynamics and integration of the central bank's expansionary monetary policies are the three main innovations in the 2016 annual growth survey package. this new approach, which is more focused on growth, must be seen as complementary to policies to contain public spending. moreover, the deterioration of international economic and financial conditions should prompt european policy makers to shift from export-oriented growth strategies to policies to support domestic demand. the latter would not only ensure greater internal redistribution of wealth, but above all would make the european economy safer from uncontrollable macroeconomic imbalances. the report stresses the essential link between the promotion of structural reforms that can enhance growth potential and, above all, the support for equitable and sustainable social protection systems. in fact, over the years we have learned that the two must go hand in hand if we are to guarantee an improvement in the living conditions of the most vulnerable sections of society. i find this report a key element in supporting the progressive policies which the s&d group in parliament and the italian government in the council have been promoting in recent years.
in writing. the report supports the commission's proposed re-development of the insolvency strategy, insisting on the need to continue fiscal consolidation, structural reforms, private investment, full implementation of the stability and growth pact. the report lacks adequate analysis of the role of the euro, macroeconomic imbalances, budgetary constraints and the impact of the commission's recipes on the economy, and consequently lacks any critical reflection on the need for a real change of course. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the report does not at all show how to solve certain issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the 2016 annual growth analysis, as it seeks to open a real and democratic debate in the eu on the economic policies to be implemented in the coming months and on how to deepen political coordination at the euro area level. the european semester can become a virtuous and democratic process if it is an exercise open to all stakeholders, and especially if, in the current economic circumstances, the 'virtuous triangle' (investments, budgetary responsibility and structural reforms), with internal demand as its fourth component, becomes a 'solid square'. the necessary deepening of emu must promote economic stability and convergence, giving countries with low growth, high unemployment and inadequate levels of investment, and therefore with a limited budgetary margin, the opportunity to converge and achieve the treaty objectives of balanced and sustainable growth. i strongly shared the call for member states to coordinate efforts to achieve more growth, create new quality jobs by triggering investment in strategic sectors of the economy (innovation, education, training), implement reforms that benefit society, complete the banking union and develop instruments for complementary fiscal capacity.
in writing. the european semester for economic policy coordination brings with it challenges, both in the short and medium term, which we must address. my attention is first and foremost directed to the citizens of europe, who are clamoring for investment and new jobs. it is therefore vital to make full use of the structural funds, the european budget and the efsi in order to strengthen cohesion and mitigate divergences in the single market, allowing all regions to develop their competitive advantages and promoting further private investment. there are three main objectives to be achieved: boost investment, pursue structural reforms and implement responsible fiscal policies. where responsibility doesn't mean austerity. i decided to vote in favour because i believe that the economic policy mix that the eu, the euro area and the individual member states will have to implement in 2016 should be strengthened. at the same time, a long-term strategy for sustainable growth needs to be put in place.
in writing. ‒ we strongly supported the adoption of this report which outlines the ep's contribution to the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 european semester process of policy coordination. the aim is to strengthen the democratic character of european economic governance, in line with the interinstitutional agreement referred to in the report of the five presidents. we are in fact emerging from a long economic crisis which has caused severe social difficulties and eroded growth potential. the combination of economic policies that the eu, the euro area and individual member states will have to implement in 2016 will undoubtedly have to aim at strengthening the recent economic recovery while addressing structural challenges. in the current economic circumstances, the 'virtuous triangle' of investment, fiscal responsibility and structural reform promoted by the commission will have to be extended. incentivising growth potential by reducing inequalities is an objective compatible with the principle of fiscal responsibility. we hope that all actors will actively participate in the european semester in order to achieve a stronger economic recovery, a greater resilience of the european social market economy to shocks and structural challenges, thus demonstrating that european democracy works and can ensure sustainable and broadly shared prosperity.
in writing. ‒ today, the economic recovery in the eu, although well under way, remains weak and uneven between and within the member states. considering that some of these states face the persistent problem of very low growth rates and taking into account that, despite having experienced significant reductions in current account deficits and a reduction in unit labour costs, net external debt as a percentage of gdp has not decreased, i express my support for the issues addressed in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that in order to succeed in combining monetary, structural and budgetary policies that lead to high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion in europe, we need to strengthen the integration of the euro area and deepen political coordination between member states, strengthen the key role of the european semester and give it greater democratic accountability, which translates into a more intensive dialogue between national parliaments, the european parliament and the commission. moving towards european democracy also means building an interdependent, stable and inclusive economy. this process will first of all lead to greater convergence of national economic policies which, although significantly interlinked as the economic crisis has shown, must simultaneously implement the structural reforms required to boost growth and competitiveness in the euro area. the european semester is a very important moment in this respect, as it opens the period in which member states work together on their macroeconomic policy agendas and review their commitment to supporting the europe 2020 strategy. the main challenge to be met is debt reduction combined with investment recovery and domestic demand strengthening in an efficient regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ the european semester ensures that member states pursue economic and budgetary policies consistent with their commitments to the eu. this 2016 growth analysis outlines further measures to be taken at eu level to help member states sustain growth, strengthen economic convergence, create jobs and promote greater social equity. the text proposes an integrated approach to economic policy based on three main pillars: boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. in addition, the annual growth analysis for 2016 is accompanied by a set of recommendations for the euro area. i hope that all member states will actively participate in the 2016 european semester in order to achieve a stronger economic recovery and a more resilient european social market economy to structural challenges. only then will we be able to demonstrate that european democracy works and is capable of ensuring sustainable and broadly shared prosperity. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the single market is without doubt the best outcome of the european integration process. the current market is still experiencing weak growth and there is still a large unused potential. at this difficult time for european unity we must consider the high potential that the single market can have to boost growth and innovation to make europe more competitive. it is necessary for member states to use the european fund for strategic investments to maximise national strategies and to boost growth and competitiveness through projects that could not have been funded by other funds.
in writing. i voted against yet another report which should identify the strategic priorities for growth and jobs in europe by analysing what has not worked so far, but which ends up once again blindly insisting on the usual failed recipes promoted for over five years by the european commission without achieving anything other than producing record levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality. i find it unacceptable that the parties of the establishment continue to unabashedly defend a toxic strategy that preaches austerity, structural reforms, strict enforcement of budgetary constraints and the centrality of private investment in the financing of public goods, while consciously denying the undeniable role of the single currency in condemning most of the countries of the eurozone to recession, in blocking any economic recovery and in exacerbating disparities and imbalances between countries. we have insisted on the need to change course, to introduce immediately democratic mechanisms to allow for an exit from the euro and to prepare a plan for the controlled and coordinated dissolution of the eurozone. at the moment, however, despite the growing evidence that growth cannot exist within the euro, a fundamental element of intellectual honesty is lacking in the institutions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this annual growth analysis for 2016, with which the commission opened the european semester by identifying priorities for growth and jobs in europe. the report supports the commission's re-introduction of the bankruptcy strategy, insisting on the need to continue fiscal consolidation, structural reforms, private investment and full implementation of the stability and growth pact. the report lacks adequate analysis of the role of the euro, macroeconomic imbalances, budgetary constraints and the impact of the commission's recipes on the economy, and consequently lacks any critical reflection on the need for a real change of course. however, there are some points of agreement, such as the importance of stimulating domestic demand and increasing public investment and greater attention to environmental issues, unemployment and growing inequalities. these are, however, references which, if not accompanied by proposals for alternative policies and for the revision of the rules and mechanisms of economic governance, are empty and insufficient, and therefore do not change the underlying message of the text in favour of the bankrupt policy pursued so far and of further strengthening the current structures of economic governance and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ the semiannual report on economic policy coordination highlights the need to implement uniform industrial policies throughout the eu and the need to facilitate smes' access to european funds. the report also highlights the social dimension of the union's action, with particular reference to unemployment and cuts in public spending. however, the text focuses too much on strengthening economic and monetary union. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ unemployment now affects 23 million european citizens, half of them longterm unemployed. this is a serious phenomenon which, in addition to causing a loss of human capital, undermines the foundations of possible future sustainable economic growth. i voted in favour of the ribeiro report because i fully share the document's central objective, namely to invest in people. the allocation of new resources to health, housing and childcare, including rehabilitation services, is a key step towards social integration and cohesion. all eu countries need to work towards developing strategies to ensure that more and more people become and remain active in society. the inclusion of refugees, migrants and asylum seekers must be a priority to this end. europe must provide all the funds needed to ensure an effective global approach to the great challenges of our time. equal opportunities, quality jobs and fair mobility are the only way to achieve upward social convergence.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is unbalanced and has many criticisms, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the upward convergence that europe is striving for, and which seeks to promote the european semester, must not only be economic but also social. boosting investment and employment, supporting the creation of quality jobs and ensuring social justice, together with adequate welfare systems, must also be priorities of the european semester and i welcome the fact that this report has set out to address these issues, stressing, among other things, the need to integrate more fully the social dimension of the eurozone. in order to ensure socially responsible recovery and sustainable economic growth, it is therefore important to continue to focus on structural reforms and investment aimed at supporting employment, education and human capital, social development and reducing inequalities not only within individual countries but across the union.
in writing. ‒ the modest economic recovery that seems to be taking place in the european union is certainly to be welcomed, but the high level of unemployment that still characterises several regions of europe is a cause for concern. it also appears that the crisis has not affected all social groups and all european regions equally: the weakest social groups and the most remote regions have paid the highest price for the recession, and still today they often see no way out. the eu as a whole therefore needs to act with greater solidarity and foresight, moving beyond the narrow logic of austerity as the only way out of the economic crisis and implementing instead a broad sustainable and inclusive development plan that focuses on economic recovery in the most disadvantaged areas of europe.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report emphasises the need to 'humanise' economic and monetary union by adding a 'social dimension'. we could reduce it to a famous phantosian exclamation: "how human the euro is!" it is nothing but a smokescreen, mainly for the use of the pse. the 'humanization' measures already adopted by the commission (see § 3) have obviously not slowed down the process of dismantling social rights and wage depression in the slightest, but they allow the children to persevere in the deception: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. another euro is not possible. i'm through.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth analysis 2016. the european semester for economic policy coordination is a key element in coordinating the individual efforts of all member states in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, i believe that in addition to the short-term fiscal implications of structural reforms, the long-term environmental, economic and social effects must also be taken into account. we must not forget that the transition to a green economy and investment in more efficient health systems will increase the security of energy supply, improve the health and well-being of european citizens and create quality jobs, thus helping to restore the competitive edge of the european economy. the commission should also take into account in the priorities of the annual growth review and in the country-specific recommendations the shift towards a new economic model based on a circular economy, including the development of a fiscal framework that enhances the development of sustainable policies and complies with the polluter pays principle, which provides the right signals for investments in resource efficiency.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the report focuses on the employment and social aspects of the annual growth survey in the context of the european semester. we tried to remove all the economic references that we are opposed to (fiscal consolidation, improvement of economic governance, strengthening of economic and monetary union) and we voted against to express our opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs ribeiro's report because i agree that, despite the fact that the unemployment rate has been declining since 2013 thanks to favourable macroeconomic policies and the impact of structural reforms, it remains very high, affecting over 23 million european citizens. in this context, the phenomenon of so-called 'undertaking' is proliferating, with a significant negative impact on budgets, resulting in a large loss of tax revenue and social security contributions. for these reasons, the report aims to pay greater attention to social equity, stressing the need for responsible structural reforms and continuing to prioritise investment with a view to promoting and protecting the social market economy. the great challenge for european society is that of social inclusion and to achieve the objectives better coordination of the european semester is needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because political documents such as this one make me particularly proud to serve the citizens in this institution: the european union is not the europe of bureaucrats that some governments want to portray, but an eu that is attentive to the employment and social aspects of data, in other words to the people who drive the economic data on which so often, wrongly, too much attention is focused.
in writing. ‒ this report, proposed by the committee on employment and social affairs, analyses the social aspects that need to be addressed in order to make economic recovery more real. in particular, the modest results of employment growth and the fact that some categories, such as women, still remain disadvantaged in the world of work are presented. the document stresses the need to promote sustainable and inclusive growth that leads to more quality jobs and real prospects for all, including young people. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the report focuses on the employment and social aspects of the ags in the context of the european semester. the report highlights the things that have not worked so far (unemployment still too high, eu 2020 targets not reached, youth guarantee not effective in many member states, increase in atypical contracts and precariousness, cuts in public spending) and, above all, underlines the importance of the social dimension in the european union. while stressing the need to assess the social impact of structural reforms before they are implemented, the need to implement comprehensive and homogeneous industrial policies at eu level to meet the challenges posed by non-european competitors, and to facilitate smes and micro-enterprises by reducing red tape and facilitating their access to funds, the report makes the usual economic references that we are opposed to (fiscal consolidation, improvement of economic governance, strengthening of economic and monetary union). that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's analyses of the european semester show that employment and social disparities persist both within and between member states. these differences create disparities within the european union, hamper growth, employment and cohesion. the european parliament's resolution, for which i voted in favour, calls for strengthening the social dimension by boosting investment in human capital, implementing structural reforms and making better use of european funds both to implement infrastructure projects and to stimulate entrepreneurship among young people.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses a number of issues which are fundamental to the definition of a contemporary and progressive europe. public finance policies cannot be an abstract financial exercise but must take account of the dramatic contingency surrounding the lives of many european citizens. the refugee crisis clearly shows the crisis of a european system of solidarity and for this reason the states must be able to guarantee adequate measures to deal with these emergencies. emergencies that do not end with the process of identifying migrants, but rather begin at that very moment. the commission should therefore recognise a broader definition of migration policies which, starting with reception centres, extends to support for families in difficulty in the peripheries of our cities and our society. these policies must necessarily be coordinated with those which encourage entrepreneurship and the competitiveness and internationalisation of european small and mediumsized enterprises, which can reopen the nets of social integration. i therefore support this twofold demand for greater attention to be paid to social policies in public finances and at the same time for greater coordination between the national and european institutions in order to build a virtuous path of growth.
in writing. the semiannual report on the coordination of economic policies highlights the social dimension of the union's action, particularly with regard to unemployment, which is still too high, public spending cuts and measures such as the youth guarantee, which have proved ineffective in many member states, such as italy. however, the final text still refers to the strengthening of economic and monetary union and fiscal consolidation. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as it emphasises the need to humanize the economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on the social and employment aspects of the european semester because i strongly supported the position taken within the empl committee, of which i am a member, to put a firm end to economic policies based on austerity and conservative reforms. the ep's message to the european commission focuses on a new paradigm: the eu's exit from the crisis requires economic policies to support demand through large investments in innovation, training and efficient natural resources, which can restart growth, and to ensure better and more efficient use of existing european funds (social fund and cohesion fund). i have strongly advocated the need for inclusive social policies because access to education and training for workers is an opportunity for society. i also shared the call on member states to implement and monitor more effective and inclusive forms of social protection and income support systems to ensure an adequate standard of living for the unemployed and for people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and to exchange best practice on the effectiveness of a minimum income in reducing inequalities.
in writing. as evidenced by statistical data, the unemployment rate has been decreasing slightly since the second half of 2013, but not sufficiently to reduce unemployment and poverty. the data show uneven economic recovery, accompanied by employment and social disparities within the member states. reducing unemployment is our first objective today and this, together with economic growth, is the aim of the policies implemented at european and national level. the report also addresses the problem of undeclared work, which deprives workers of their social and employment rights. this is unacceptable to me. i believe that the policies implemented to date will bear fruit, and among these the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) will have to allow for major investments involving some 71 000 smes. investing in people, implementing structural reforms and reviving sustainable growth are good starting points, which i fully share, and it is for this reason that i have decided to vote in favour of this report. we obviously need to do more, but we intend to go in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: the commission shall assess the impact of the aid on the union industry. the strategic priorities referred to are varied and of considerable importance: the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the package that is being proposed is positive and underlines the importance of making synergistic efforts.
in writing. ‒ by approving this report, we want to underline the fact that the commission, in its annual growth analysis, has placed the issue of social equity at the heart of europe's economic recovery. quality and inclusive employment are an essential pillar of this, promoting human dignity for all. we are very concerned about the social impact of budgetary adjustment policies which focus on spending cuts. socially responsible reforms must be based on solidarity, integration, social justice and a fair distribution of wealth - a model that ensures equality and social protection, protects vulnerable groups and raises the standard of living for all citizens. we therefore encourage the member states to increase their efforts to eliminate the gender pay gap and to take more active measures to strengthen women's participation in the labour market. we call on the member states and the commission, in line with the principle of subsidiarity and with the cooperation of the social partners, to promote family policies, adequate provisions on maternity and paternity leave and new provisions to promote access to childcare. only then can we achieve a better work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the riberio report on the social and employment aspects of the european semester 2016. the key aspects of the report are social and responsible structural reforms, the enhancement of sustainable growth through investment, a better use of european funds to foster social and geographical cohesion, social inclusion as a challenge for society.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth review 2016, as i consider the issue of social development to be a priority, a subject which puts european citizens back at the centre of our political agenda. our economic policies cannot ignore common concerns about employment, social equity, the problem of poverty and other fundamental social issues. in the current economic conditions, the european union needs socially responsible structural reforms because the social impact of budgetary adjustment policies, mainly through spending cuts, is currently close to sustainable. the new reforms must therefore start at the social level to create a model that ensures, through increased investment and better use of funds, sustainable growth, equality, protection for vulnerable groups and, in general, well-being for citizens. finally, giving concrete answers to these questions is also crucial to ensuring greater political legitimacy for the european institutions and, specifically, for the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ whereas the unemployment rate has been decreasing slightly since the second half of 2013, but not sufficiently to reduce unemployment and poverty in several member states, which still remain too high; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion, in particular by ensuring that the union's social partners are fully involved in the implementation of the union's policy on employment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ over the past three years, unemployment in europe has declined slightly due to a combination of macroeconomic policies and structural reforms, but the fluctuations have not been such as to narrow the poverty line. these changes are also linked to temporary factors linked to the uncertainties of the world economy which sometimes produce favourable situations for the real economy by inducing a lowering of inflation as well as a temporary increase in purchasing power. indeed, in europe, there are many factors that prevent the elimination of employment disparities and the achievement of a fair and resilient society. the long-term unemployment, especially youth unemployment, has negative consequences in terms of loss of human capital and reduced social integration. similarly, female unemployment and the gender pay and pension gap remain factors of exclusion and serious imbalances. long-term public policies are needed for an inclusive, fair and dynamic labour market within a sound regulatory framework and in line with the renewed objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european semester can take up this challenge and encourage member states to step up their efforts by investing in services that are geared to positive social and economic development.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 annual growth survey is accompanied by the publication of the commission's draft joint employment report, which is adopted jointly with the council (on the basis of article 148 tfeu) and analyses the employment and social situation in europe and the policy responses implemented by the member states. the report analyses the possibilities for improving the employment and social situation in the eu as a whole. i welcome the commission's efforts to revive the social dialogue. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ every economic indicator indicates declining performance for the eu member states. the 'single market' is a tool we have at our disposal to promote growth and stability. although the text refers to bureaucratic simplification and cooperation, the benefits of this strategy are treated superficially without taking into account the possible side effects. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of the main achievements of the integration process and one of the fundamental pillars of the european union. i voted in favour of the stihler report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016 because i strongly believe in the need to reaffirm the importance of including this issue in the debate on the european semester. economic growth and stabilisation of the member states are objectives which can only be achieved by completing the single market and strengthening democratic accountability processes. the creation of new jobs, growth and competitiveness in europe are not factors that can be separated from the improvement of governance systems and the increase in transparency of decision-making processes. i have supported this report because i believe that the provision for a system of periodic monitoring and evaluation of the single market and competitiveness is moving in this direction. setting priorities and providing for the creation of a robust database of quantitative and qualitative information to effectively assess progress in the member states can be a good way to further improve integration mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the single market is not only one of the union's pillars but also one of its greatest achievements. its potential for growth, competitiveness and employment is enormous, but it is not yet fully exploited. as stated in the report voted today, which i supported, the european semester should focus more on the opportunities offered by this fundamental instrument and allow them to be fully deployed. this can only be achieved by a genuine deepening of the internal market, through better governance and transparency, the reduction of non-tariff barriers that still exist and the full implementation of the existing rules on services and public procurement, in a multi-level and more coordinated approach. the opportunities that the single market offers us, like those of the digital single market, are indeed many, but it is up to us to act and coordinate to get the most out of them.
in writing. ‒ the market is a large, complex, multi-level system, which is one of the pillars of european well-being and of the integration process that the member states are pursuing. it is a precious resource on which the present and future economic prosperity of the european union depends. the untapped potential of the single market, estimated at €1 trillion, is both an opportunity and a wake-up call to ensure that the single market benefits everyone. there are currently excessive barriers to trade across the eu and many member states do not implement the decisions they sign up to, especially on inclusiveness and transparency: the european union's influence is therefore not yet fully expressed. it must be recognised that the market requires coordination of macroeconomic and microeconomic policies coupled with the governance of fiscal policies to contribute to the desired structural economic growth in the eu member states.
in writing. - i vote against it. our opposition to the very concept of a 'european semester' is political but also of substance. in the case of the report in question, which deals with the management of the internal market, we are faced with a series of rather vague statements. in our view, once again the imco committee is making overly optimistic assumptions about the contribution that further development of the internal market and the digital single market can make to the growth of the entire union economy. there are too many references in the text to tasks which the member states would not carry out, including the application of eu rules. our delegation argues that the problem is the overproduction of legislation by the european institutions, and certainly not the difficulties encountered by the member states in inserting rules that are not suited to their own productive reality into their legal system. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i have given my positive vote on the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016, on the following grounds: the eu faces a number of challenges at both global and national level, such as slow growth, high levels of unemployment and, above all, intense international competition; the european semester aims to increase the coordination of economic and budgetary policies across the eu of 28 member states; the priority is to increase stability, promote growth and employment and strengthen competitiveness. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the single market is one of the founding elements of the union and the backbone of the economies of the member states. i agree with the commission's intention to continue the analysis of country-specific investment challenges in the context of the european semester.
in writing. - we are against economic governance, so we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the report because i have always argued that the single market is a precious resource on which the current and future economic prosperity of the european union depends and that its untapped potential is both an opportunity and a wake-up call to ensure that the single market brings benefits to all. i believe that coordination of macroeconomic and microeconomic policies, combined with coordination of budgetary policies, is necessary to contribute to the desired structural economic growth in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the european parliament acts as the voice of the people even when it is not necessarily about legislating: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i appreciated the work done by mrs stihler and voted in favour, sharing the approach and almost all the points made.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a precious resource on which the european union's current and future economic prosperity depends. the untapped potential of the single market, estimated at €1 trillion, is an opportunity to ensure that the single market benefits everyone. at present, there are excessive barriers to trade across the eu and many member states do not implement the decisions they sign up to. the measures taken so far to promote growth and job creation have yet to demonstrate their full potential. for this reason, i agree with the rapporteur and believe that better governance and greater transparency of processes will speed up the path towards an efficient and integrated single market.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of the pillars of the european union and one of its main achievements. during the european semester, the main focus will be on the single market and policies to complete it, through economic policy coordination, improving stability, promoting growth and employment. the resolution therefore aims at the immediate abolition of unjustified territorial restrictions known as geoblocks, as well as to update the european standardisation system in order to support eu policies in favour of digital innovation, modernise public administration by providing better and more accessible digital services to citizens and businesses and finally facilitate cross-border cooperation and interoperability of public administrations. i am voting in favour, because i consider it essential that the rules of the single market be implemented and respected.
in writing. ‒ the single market is an important tool for promoting eu competitiveness and ensuring job creation and economic growth, and it is important to remove any obstacles to its implementation. the european parliament's resolution, which i voted for, calls on the commission to integrate the single market pillar into the european semester by providing for a system to monitor and identify periodically country-specific obstacles to the single market and to assess the integration of the single market and competitiveness, with particular reference to a set of priorities in the areas where action would have the greatest impact in terms of growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis of recent years has made it clear that the european institutions need to make a renewed effort to promote economic policies that can effectively synthesise macroeconomic budgetary policies, such as those of the european semester, and at the same time those of the microeconomic policies promoting the single market. it is clear to europeans, but not yet to many in the european institutions, that there is a direct link between deficit-surplus macroeconomic policies in the balance of payments of the member states and competition policies between the member states themselves. the commission's renewed focus on promoting investment policies to support domestic demand will therefore also have a positive effect on strengthening the european single market. but at the same time a stronger single market also means smart regulation to ensure maximum consumer protection by promoting transparency in production processes. therefore, it is necessary to develop a regulatory framework around the 'made-in' in order to protect not only businesses and their value chain of excellence but also consumers so that they can be more informed in their purchasing decisions.
in writing. ‒ the member states and the european union have been facing periods of low growth, high unemployment and increasingly aggressive global competition for some years now. this european semester must create opportunities for the single market, which is one of the pillars on which the eu is founded, to become an instrument for growth and competitiveness for the whole union. i share the need for a series of measures to improve governance and transparency processes, and to promote the application and improvement of the current single market rules. finally, i think that the proposal to create a digital single market in the age of technological development is welcome. infrastructure, interoperability and standards at eu level are essential to enable a fair implementation of the digital transformation across europe, for the economic and social development of eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i am against the report because it is not very concrete.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016 because i am convinced that the single market is a valuable resource on which the eu's current and future economic prosperity depends. the integration of the single market in the context of the european semester, as a tool for coordination and monitoring, will be able to promote job creation, growth and competition. however, these processes need to be accompanied by better governance and greater transparency of the process. in order to unlock the untapped potential of the estimated 1 trillion single market and make it work for everyone, it is necessary to remove the many barriers to trade across the eu, increase the transparency of decision-making, improve governance and force member states to implement the decisions they take. this will avoid distortions which undermine free competition. overcoming current weaknesses and creating new jobs requires a new paradigm in investment models, with increased investment in strategic sectors and corporate spending on intangible assets and proper implementation of the directives on services, public procurement and concessions.
in writing. the single market is a precious resource on which the european union's current and future economic prosperity depends. it is undeniable that job creation, growth and competitiveness are all objectives that must be accompanied by better governance. the report highlights the transformative effects of digitalisation on businesses and consumers. only by understanding that the single market of the 21st century is very different from that of the past will we be able to find the right solutions to the problems of today. this difference is due to the digital revolution, which, if managed with foresight, can help smes, contributing to an increase in employment and an increase in gdp. the digital single market is a point in the report which i fully support. there are still obstacles to its full completion, but we are prepared to do everything in our power to remove them. i agree with the report and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a precious resource on which the european union's current and future economic prosperity depends. there are currently excessive barriers to trade across the eu and many member states do not implement the decisions they sign up to. the influence of the european union is only matched by that of its constituent parts of the 28 member states. i voted in favour of the report so that progress on the integration of the single market in the member states is accompanied by better governance and greater transparency of the process and this can be achieved by integrating the single market in the context of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently facing a number of challenges at both global and national level, such as slow growth, high levels of unemployment and, above all, intense international competition. it is therefore absolutely essential to take all possible steps to promote its economy and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the single market is one of the founding pillars of the eu and an opportunity for growth, employment and a level playing field for consumers in all member states. the construction of the single market requires a continuous commitment and a unanimous awareness of the significant benefits that will result from its development. in a perspective of structural economic growth based on the coordination of macroeconomic and microeconomic policies coupled with the coordination of budgetary policies, the integration of the single market pillar into the european semester would open up the opportunity for inclusive and strengthened governance. one of the most promising areas is the digital single market, which is bringing new areas of activity, new investment opportunities and additional jobs, particularly for young people. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to remove the remaining obstacles to the full implementation of the single market, the integration of which into the european semester would encourage member states to implement the decisions already taken and to simplify their national legislation progressively, in the framework of an inclusive and non-discriminatory approach involving the full participation of the european parliament, which has always been the driving force behind the relaunch of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a precious resource on which the european union's current and future economic prosperity depends. however, little progress has been made at present, despite repeated calls for strengthening the single market in the european council conclusions. one report estimates that the completion of the single market would bring economic benefits of between €651 billion and €1.1 trillion per year, or between 5% and 8.63% of eu gdp. greater progress on the integration of the single market in the member states should be accompanied by better governance and greater transparency of the process. this would allow for job creation, growth and the competitiveness of the european single market. i believe, and that is why i voted in favour, that this can be achieved by integrating the single market within the framework of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the economic benefits of the single market and recognises the many barriers, including bureaucratic ones, that hamper growth both domestically and internationally. the report stresses the importance of integrating the single market into the european semester to promote eu competitiveness, ensure job creation and economic growth, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. in this context, i believe that adequate involvement of the national parliaments of the member states is of fundamental importance in order to ensure not only transparency but also a more democratic governance of the european semester review process.
in writing. ‒ the european union is tunisia's main trading partner and has had trade relations with the country on the southern shore of the mediterranean since 1969, when it signed its first association agreement. the cradle of the arab spring, tunisia is also the only country that has embarked on a stable democratic transition since the 2011 protests, which manifested itself in the approval of the new constitution on 26 january 2014. the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement is an attempt to strengthen the links between europe and tunisia in this context, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution. political stability and economic development are two inseparable elements which, by reinforcing each other, can ensure that tunisia is resilient to the instability that characterizes the entire regional context, whether we think of the complex situation in libya or the algerian case. the agreement must commit itself to promoting growth, employment and lower prices, taking due account of the existence of agricultural sectors requiring special protection and for which action will be necessary, including transition, quota and exclusion mechanisms to protect producers on both sides.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report which calls for the opening of free trade negotiations between europe and tunisia. i believe that such a negotiation would cause enormous damage both to the italian agricultural production system, which would be fighting against competition not burdened by the costly european standards, and to european citizens who would find products on the market that do not comply with the same plant health standards as those grown in the eu. for all these reasons i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ providing economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. tunisia is today one of the few (or perhaps the only) arab countries where the so-called "arab spring" has landed in a modern type of democracy, which looks to the west and the development of the rule of law. a friendly democracy, which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to be gradually integrated into the common free trade area.
in writing. - i vote against it. this resolution is based on the same theme as the measure granting trade preferences to tunisian oil. the problems are well known and are very similar to those on which we opposed the agreement with morocco. italian agricultural products, especially those from the south, would face competition from producers not bound by the costly european standards and unable to guarantee the same plant health standards. moreover, several observers of north african realities say that many of tunisia's large agricultural producers are now foreign investors, often european. our delegation also does not agree that the economic crisis in tunisia can be dealt with by commercial concessions, which would be paid only by certain producers in certain member states and which would not, in return, provide opportunities for italian companies of some interest to gain access to the market. it is dangerous to combine the trade issue with more sensitive issues such as the demand for greater visa liberalization. that would be a completely wrong and dangerous approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution today because i believe that it is necessary to provide aid to the tunisian economy, which has been severely weakened by the terrorist attacks. the tunisian economy is in a period of considerable economic difficulties. the tourism industry is collapsing, the unemployment rate in 2015 was 15% of the working population, 28.6% of graduates without work and unemployment among young people is rising sharply. this is at a time when the country's democratic transition process is proving to be the most advanced in the region, as a result of the adoption of a unique political and economic model among the countries of the southern mediterranean. in addition, tunisia has taken in more than 1.8 million libyan refugees, a number equal to almost 16% of the country's total population. i believe it is essential that tunisia receives substantial financial, technical and trade negotiating assistance from the eu in order to implement the various provisions of the free trade agreement correctly. it is important that financial assistance is provided in a transparent manner and that it is ensured that it brings real benefits to the beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ the resolution expresses the european parliament's recommendations on the negotiation of the eu-tunisia free trade agreement, whose negotiations were launched in october 2015. the agreement is aimed at liberalizing goods and services between tunisia and the eu and at preparing joint measures on the mobility of workers and the protection of intellectual property. the text of the resolution recommends that the commission should proceed to a gradual and asymmetrical agreement, with a progressive opening up to tunisian economic sectors. the resolution also calls for the liberalization of certain goods, such as olive oil, which are considered sensitive to our companies, to be excluded from the negotiations. the text also has some weaknesses. however, since many of the compromise amendments proposed by the five star movement have been accepted, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ after seeing the outcome of the vote on the report on tunisian oil, which was the aspect of the wider agreement that most interested me, i voted in favour of this resolution in the hope that these further negotiations will produce a more reasonable text that is more favourable to our consumers. we never let our guard down!
in writing. ‒ on 19 october 2015, negotiations were launched for free trade agreements between the european union and tunisia, an agreement that goes beyond tariff reductions in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors and covers services, labour mobility, small and medium-sized enterprises and the protection of intellectual property. the resolution highlights a number of points to be taken into account: the agreement must be gradual and asymmetrical; the opening up of tunisian economic sectors must be gradual and progressive and must include transitional periods for sensitive sectors, excluding from the negotiations certain products which the parties consider sensitive (we have of course asked for the olive oil sector to be excluded). substantial financial, technical and trade negotiating assistance is needed to implement the various provisions of the free trade agreement correctly, and it is required that such assistance be provided in a transparent manner and that it brings real benefits to the recipients. the text is not negative, but since, unfortunately, some of our amendments, which are of fundamental importance, have not been included in the text, such as the one concerning the exclusion of the olive oil sector, i cannot support it. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - i vote against opening free trade negotiations with tunisia as it would cause economic damage to our country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia because i believe it is important to support a democratic transition and a process of liberalisation in the country that can put tunisia on the road to modern democracies. i believe that trade relations between the eu and tunisia are an integral part of a neighbourhood policy which values tunisia as a free and democratic country, a model for the whole of the north african region. in this sense, the development of the economy and the increase in trade with the eu are the key to a stable and plural society at a time of exposure to fundamentalism and terrorism: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i believe, however, that the agreement must be gradual and flexible, given the high sensitivity of certain areas to both sides. i therefore support parliament's request for impact studies on the effects of the agreement in certain areas such as agri-food and public procurement, the sectoral approach to negotiation, the provision of transitional periods and quotas, the call for product traceability and the provision of compensatory measures in the event of adverse effects on the economies of both parties.
in writing. the eu-tunisia partnership agreement represents an opportunity for growth for both the tunisian and the european economies. it is important to understand, however, that this agreement is not just about trade, since its objective is to stabilise the political situation in tunisia and to accompany it in its process of democratic transition. financial support is needed to achieve this. however, i believe that caution is needed, taking into account the considerable differences between the two sides, their specificities, and maintaining a sectoral approach during the negotiations. i also believe that the opening up of specific sectors of the tunisian economy must be done in a gradual and progressive manner. the free trade agreement must be beneficial to both parties and therefore must not cause damage to european economic sectors. the main purpose of this partnership is to contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of tunisia, and i therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the opening of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement. relations between tunisia and europe are longstanding and the european union remains tunisia's main trading partner. it is important to work on deepening trade relations, and this report offers tangible opportunities for the tunisian and european economies. the european union will, however, provide financial and technical assistance alongside these negotiations and work towards an effective partnership.
in writing. ‒ in view of the courageous democratic transition process launched in tunisia and the ongoing attempts at destabilisation, we strongly support the launch of negotiations between the european union and tunisia for the creation of a comprehensive and in-depth free trade area. we are convinced that european trade policy can be an effective instrument for promoting sustainable development and economic growth, and we are confident that the agreement will contribute to the complete stabilisation of the country through a higher level of employment and a reform agenda that can be implemented in a framework of cooperation at the regulatory level. the country is indeed grappling with a severe economic slowdown, caused by the collapse of tourist arrivals, the country's main source of livelihood, strongly linked to terrorist attacks and libyan turmoil. we therefore acknowledge the great effort made within the institutions to increase the inclusiveness of tunisian society, as well as the admirable humanitarian support to the approximately two million libyan refugees in the country. convinced that a safer and more prosperous tunisia is of primary interest to the european union, we hope that the agreement will be asymmetrical in nature and that the negotiations will be conducted with the utmost transparency and with the highest involvement of tunisian civil society, the worthy protagonist of the democratic path undertaken.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is a key strategic partner for europe in the geopolitical landscape of the mediterranean. a country that is going through a process of democratic transition towards a pluralist society and that aims to strengthen this new and still fragile democracy. the recent terrorist attacks in tunisia clearly represent an attempt to obstruct this process of democratic consolidation which is under way; the tunisian government has also expressed its concern at the situation in tunisia, which is currently undergoing a political transition and which is therefore likely to be seriously jeopardised by the actions of these terrorist groups, and which has further weakened the tunisian tourism sector, the main source of economic income for the country. in this delicate context, the resolution i voted for today proposes the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement. this is an opportunity for the european union, the country's main trading partner, to give concrete help to the tunisian economy, which is suffering from a surplus of labour and a very high rate of youth unemployment. i believe that this commitment must be made through a process of support during the negotiations, both with economic and technical assistance and through regular dialogue between european and tunisian parliamentarians, as envisaged by the newly created joint parliamentary committee. i therefore supported this resolution because the eu's opening up to trade with tunisia is a necessary step to support the democratic transition and the economy of the country.
in writing. ‒ the european union is tunisia's main trading partner and the first cooperation agreement between the two partners dates back to 1969. the eu notes that in tunisia the labour market presents disparities between the different sectors affected by the trade agreement which, if not addressed, risk leading to a surplus of labour in the agricultural sector and the suppression of other sectors important for economic diversification in their country. support for this country cannot and must not be to the detriment of the economies of the mediterranean countries. i therefore hope that greater protection will also be given to the agricultural and manufacturing sectors of the european economy, so that a situation which is already very badly affected by the crisis of recent years is not worsened.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia aims to emphasise those points which must be taken into account during the negotiations. we of the five star movement voted to protect the sectors which are most dear to us as italians, such as agriculture and, in particular, olive oil. in order to represent the interests of small european producers, we have tabled a number of amendments to exclude tunisian olive oil from further liberalization. on thursday we voted for a less asymmetrical agreement, which protects the most sensitive sectors (such as olive oil) and provides for a gradual and progressive opening up of tunisian economic sectors in order to protect small and medium-sized producers throughout southern europe, primarily italians. the resolution is not generally negative, but since the amendments we have proposed to protect italian olive oil have not been adopted, we have decided not to support it.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman opened 342 inquiries into maladministration in the european union in 2014. the annual report highlights the ombudsman's increased focus on issues such as conflict of interest, whistleblowing, the transparency of lobbying activities and the problem of revolving doors. these issues are of relevance to the awareness of good administrative practice. the five star movement has always fought for transparency within the institutions, which is why i voted in favour of the european ombudsman's annual report.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman is a person established under article 228 tfeu whose task is to receive complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of the institutions of the european union. on 16 december 2014, at the plenary session in strasbourg, the european parliament re-elected emily o'reilly as the european ombudsman. the cabezón ruiz report, which i supported with my vote, presented a positive picture of the activities carried out by this institutional figure in 2014. of the more than 2 000 complaints received, the ombudsman provided advice in more than a thousand cases and opened a related inquiry in another 325 cases. the strategic surveys, which were carried out on their own initiative and made possible by the appointment of a coordinator, were also important. in general, the ombudsman's work has been positive in that it has paid particular attention to respecting the right of citizens to participate in the eu decision-making process and, in particular, to the functioning of the european citizens' initiative (eci). i therefore welcome the work done by mr o'reilly and have decided to support the report before parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman is one of the few existing means of control available to european citizens vis-à-vis the european institutions. i believe that the european ombudsman cooperates positively with other bodies that work in the member states to defend citizens, such as the european network of ombudsmen and the committees on petitions, and that his work has so far produced good results. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european ombudsman is crucial in bringing to light, following complaints from private citizens or following investigations carried out on his own initiative, cases of maladministration by the european institutions. its work makes it possible to identify and eliminate certain behaviour which is detrimental to the rights of european citizens, restoring confidence in the role of the institutions and making their work more transparent and effective. in this light, i welcome the work of the ombudsman as reported in his annual report for 2014 and i particularly appreciate the fact that the ombudsman has taken a more active and dynamic role in launching strategic inquiries on his own initiative, not only to ensure good administration and greater transparency in the day-to-day work of the institutions but also in the management of eu-funded projects and programmes, such as horizon 2020, in international negotiations, such as those related to ttip, or in the protection of human rights, as they relate to the particular mandate of frontex.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman plays a key role in the european union, helping the eu institutions to become more transparent, effective and closer to the citizens, thus strengthening their trust in the union. it is a guarantor figure for the protection of the european citizen and is responsible for ensuring that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards expected of the union's institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. 2014 was a highly productive year for the institution of the european ombudsman, as it began to implement the new 'towards 2019' strategy, which places particular emphasis on strategic issues of public administration in the european union affecting millions of europeans. the european parliament must continue to support the current european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, as she did a great job in 2014 in her task of assisting the institutions of the european union in providing the best possible service to european citizens and residents, using transparency as a guarantee of better administration.
in writing. - i vote for it. the european ombudsman, although without any real powers of influence, represents a form of control given to european citizens. in the year under review, the ombudsman opened 325 complaint-based inquiries and 17 own-initiative inquiries. the main sources of complaints were individual citizens (335) and businesses, associations and other legal entities (52). these checks have mainly concerned the european commission. where possible, the ombudsman seeks to achieve a positive outcome by working towards a friendly settlement satisfactory to both the complainant and the institution concerned. in 2014, amicable settlements were found in 133 cases and in 163 cases the ombudsman considered that no further investigation was warranted. finally, it is worth mentioning that the european ombudsman works closely with his counterparts in the member states, such as the european network of ombudsmen, which includes national and regional ombudsmen, commissions for petitions and corresponding bodies in the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. as regards the topics of complaints in the ombudsman's annual report, the theme of public access to documents of the eu institutions is clearly predominant and has triggered a large number of complaints. of all investigations closed in 2014, 20-30% of complaints concerned transparency and in particular the refusal of institutions to allow access to documents and/or information. this shows that the eu institutions need to work more transparently in order to promote good governance and ensure the participation of civil society. i believe that the opening up of documents and access to them, particularly by the commission, in accordance with article 15 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 42 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, is an essential part of the system of institutional checks and balances. in particular, there is a need for greater openness in the ongoing negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the report highlights these elements and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report starts with an analysis of the european ombudsman's work in 2014, but it goes beyond this to include a number of interesting points. for example, the ombudsman is encouraged to make a more active contribution, within the limits of his mandate, to the prevention of conflicts of interest; the committee also encourages the commission to make greater use of its power to initiate own-initiative inquiries, particularly in relation to the financing of projects aimed at reducing development disparities. i voted for it without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman is entitled to receive complaints from any citizen or business resident in the european union and is an important point of reference in cases of maladministration by a european institution or agency or of violation of fundamental rights. in 2014 alone, the ombudsman handled over 2 000 complaints and 23 072 citizens requested assistance from his services. these are important figures which show the ever-increasing role it has assumed over the 20 years since its establishment. access to information and transparency requests by the institutions account for 20-30% of complaints. the ombudsman's role has improved access to eu documents by ensuring greater transparency and also enabled a very wide audience to receive information on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i welcome the new organisational structure and the appointment of an inquiry coordinator, as well as the fact that the ombudsman is using his power to launch strategic inquiries on his own initiative. all these factors increase its function and role and at the same time the confidence of citizens in the european institutions. i voted in favour of the report and i share the european parliament's positive assessment of the seriousness and professionalism of the ombudsman's work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the provision on the activities of the european ombudsman, which, like all institutions, is bound to the greatest possible transparency, thus ensuring good administration while ensuring the participation of civil society. the complex of cases brought before that body is one of the institutions on which european citizens place their greatest trust and, in this context, the greatest possible efficiency must be guaranteed while respecting the necessary access to it by the public. in this respect, i commend the excellent work of the european ombudsman in the person of emily o'reilly.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the peti committee, i have a fairly close view of the work of the european ombudsman, to which i would be happy, if i could, to give more resources in the face of increased awareness by citizens. i can assure you that it is not easy to get lost in the thicket of overlapping european rules which make even the most conscientious of citizens stumble, and in the thicket of officials who are sometimes very cooperative and sometimes deserve a heads-up to remind them that they are working for the citizens. i voted in favour of this report, which gives a fairly accurate picture of the tasks carried out annually by the european ombudsman's office and which properly emphasises how this figure should be publicised to make it available to more and more citizens who may need it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report of the european ombudsman, who has done an excellent job by taking many initiatives to increase the efficiency of the institution he represents. some of these initiatives include the appointment of an investigations coordinator and the introduction of new internal rules on employee reporting of wrongdoing, which have produced initial positive results. i also congratulate the ombudsman on the investigations he has launched into transparency within the eu institutions, the transparency of lobbying activities and clinical trials, as well as all those concerning the protection of fundamental rights, and those concerning eu-funded projects and programmes and its competition policy.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, presented her annual report following investigations based on complaints from individual citizens, businesses and associations, totalling 325, in addition to 17 other investigations conducted on her own initiative. the legal basis for the mandate of the european ombudsman is article 228 tfeu, which empowers the ombudsman to receive complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of the institutions of the european union. the key themes of the ombudsman's inquiries were: transparency within the eu institutions, lobbying and clinical trials, fundamental rights, ethical issues, citizen participation in eu decision-making, eu-funded projects and programmes and eu competition policy. i support the work of the european ombudsman and hope that he will continue to contribute to and develop mechanisms for the prevention of conflicts of interest at all levels of the eu institutions, bodies and agencies.
in writing. ‒ according to eurobarometer estimates as of may 2015, 40% of citizens have confidence in the european union, while 46% do not. a large part of this dissatisfaction stems from the institutions' inability to respond effectively and in a reasonable time to the needs of citizens and their limited ability to ensure that individual rights are protected. in this context, the role of the european ombudsman is essential, first and foremost as a tool for monitoring the transparency and fairness of administrations, which must reflect the highest standards expected of union bodies and agencies. making institutions feel closer to citizens builds trust: this is something that must be worked on, along with the ability to put in place effective policies that respond to the most widespread needs and requirements. in this, the ombudsman has shown positive activism, notably by using the power to launch strategic inquiries on his own initiative, for example on the transparency of lobbying activities, clinical trials, ethical issues, citizen participation in decision-making, eu-funded programmes and competition policy. i believe that the path is the right one and that it should be pursued with the full support and contribution of the european parliament.
in writing. the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, presented to the committee on petitions the report on the activities of 2014, the year in which she launched 342 investigations into maladministration in the european union. the key issues of the ombudsman's inquiries concern transparency within the eu institutions, the transparency of lobbying activities and clinical trials, fundamental rights, ethical issues, citizen participation in eu decision-making, eu-funded projects and programmes and eu competition policy. in particular, the ombudsman launched own-initiative inquiries and made recommendations to call on the council and the commission to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations. the five star movement has always fought for transparency within the institutions, which is why i voted in favour of the european ombudsman's annual report.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman plays a sensitive and significant role in bringing to light cases of maladministration, at eu level, reported by citizens. the ombudsman thus helps to bridge the gap between citizens and institutions by giving them the opportunity to denounce maladministration and malfeasance by the union's institutions and bodies and thus to demand respect for the right to good administration enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights. we welcome the work carried out by the ombudsman in 2014, in particular with regard to the inquiries launched on transparency within the eu institutions, on the transparency of lobbying activities and clinical trials, on fundamental rights, on ethical issues, on eu-funded projects and programmes and, last but not least, on citizens' participation in the eu decision-making process. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman emily o'reilly in 2014. the final budget has been a testament to the tireless work of my colleague, who has used all the instruments at her disposal to promote greater transparency in the european institutions, and to ensure that we are firmly opposed to maladministration. i think it is a noble intention of the ombudsman to encourage initiatives to help minorities, such as refugees and people with disabilities. in addition, its initiative to host the 'your wish list for europe' event is a good example of respect for subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european ombudsman, a useful tool for monitoring citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014, whose work i consider to be of fundamental importance in ensuring a more transparent, effective and participatory european union for citizens. the european institutions are undoubtedly going through the most difficult phase in their history. the political crisis in the union is putting the very idea of europe at risk, and the values on which it is based are at odds with the growing and widespread mistrust of european citizens. in this climate of uncertainty and general disillusionment with the eu institutions, the european ombudsman has been an important point of reference for the requests of european citizens, who have turned to the institution mainly to complain about issues related to the transparency of the eu institutions and access to documentation produced by them. finally, i congratulate emily o'reilly on her re-election as european ombudsman, who has done a great job over the years of giving voice to thousands of european citizens and providing them with assistance, in the spirit of transparency and the principle of good administration that have certainly characterised her role.
in writing. the european ombudsman was established by the maastricht treaty as a body responsible for eu citizenship. its task is to combat maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. at the same time, it has a duty to strengthen the instruments for protecting the rights of the citizens of the union and to improve the efficiency of the community administration. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the ombudsman's mandate was extended to include the common foreign and security policy. more generally, the ombudsman seeks to improve the quality of administration by receiving complaints. to this end, a study of its activities is published annually to inform the public about what is being done. i consider that the report fully illustrates the role of the european ombudsman and the work undertaken in 2014, and i have therefore decided to give a favourable opinion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. the ombudsman opened 325 complaint-based and 17 own-initiative inquiries and closed 387 complaint-based and 13 own-initiative inquiries. the main sources of complaints were individual citizens (335) and businesses, associations and other legal entities (52). i think emily o'reilly has done a very good job and the focus on transparency as a guarantee of good administration has been a key element in her mandate.
in writing. ‒ one of the european ombudsman's main priorities is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards expected of the union's institutions, bodies and agencies. the ombudsman currently plays a very important role and one of his tasks is to help the eu institutions become more transparent, effective and closer to the citizens, thus strengthening citizens' trust in the union. i too have confidence in this body, given its successes.
in writing. ‒ on 26 may 2015, emily o'reilly, who was re-elected as european ombudsman by the european parliament at the plenary session in strasbourg on 16 december 2014, presented her annual report. in 2014, it launched 325 complaint-based investigations and 17 own-initiative investigations. the main sources of complaints were individual citizens (335) and businesses, associations and other legal entities (52). the ombudsman found maladministration in 39 of the cases closed and drew up 12 draft recommendations. as regards the subject matter of complaints, public access to eu institutions' documents is predominant and has triggered a large number of complaints. of all investigations closed in 2014, 86 cases (21,5%) concerned access to documents. i hope that the ombudsman can continue to work with the utmost independence and transparency to combat instances of maladministration in the community institutions and bodies and, as a result, to strengthen the instruments for protecting the rights of citizens of the union and to improve the efficiency of the community administration. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ emily o'reilly is once again the european ombudsman and in the report we adopted today we congratulated her on her work to date. the ombudsman's task is to be a meeting point between citizens and institutions, and you have done a good job in this delicate role in a competent and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution concerns the report on the activities of the european ombudsman emily o'reilly in 2014. the european ombudsman's main priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards expected of the union's institutions, bodies and agencies. in 2014, the ombudsman opened 342 inquiries, 325 on the basis of complaints and 17 on his own initiative, of which 59.6% concerned the commission. it also made recommendations on the lack of transparency within the eu institutions and on lobbying, clinical trials, fundamental rights, ethical issues, competition policy spending and citizen participation in eu decision-making. i believe that the ombudsman plays a vital role in helping the eu institutions to become more transparent, effective and closer to the citizens, thus strengthening their trust in the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank, a major economic institution, has pursued unconventional monetary policies under the draghi presidency, which were supposed to rebalance the european financial situation. it wasn't like that. the real economy is still suffering. the 2014 annual report on the ecb's activities does not make reference to, or makes only weak reference to, key economic factors: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. for these reasons i have decided to vote against the ecb's annual report.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank under mario draghi launched in 2014 a series of long-term refinancing operations and several programmes to purchase selected financial assets in the private sector in order to support lending to the real economy. in 2015, it then promoted a €1100 billion asset purchase programme. these and other operations, which involved measures of an unconventional nature, have provided a positive, albeit not conclusive, response to the union's economic problems. i have decided to support the marias report with conviction because i believe that the ecb's contribution is essential to increase low-interest loans for smes and, above all, to promote an effective economic recovery in terms of employment, growth and stability. the defence of the single currency, the supervisory role of the banking system and the commitment to price stability are essential contributions to ensuring that the european project moves forward towards greater integration.
in writing. ‒ given the ineffectiveness of the economic policies put in place by the ecb to deal with the crisis in the markets, given the banking crisis that is sinking the savings of italians due to measures such as the bail in and the economic forecasts of another year of recession at european level, i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the role that the ecb has played and continues to play in providing support to the real economy through targeted longer-term refinancing operations and private sector asset purchase programmes, together with its attempt to bring inflation closer to the 2% threshold and thus into a more balanced position, is important in enabling the full economic recovery of the euro area. nevertheless, growth and investment in the euro area have so far been sluggish, and this is clearly because, as we have long argued, monetary policy cannot be the only solution to the economic problems facing europe, but more coordinated and courageous policy action is needed, based on the implementation of structural reforms and the revival of investment, both public and private. the contribution of the ecb is therefore certainly to be acknowledged, but we must remember that monetary policy is a limited instrument and that a comprehensive policy mix is needed, including the completion of banking union and fiscal policy.
in writing. ‒ the ecb under mario draghi has been brave and taken considerable risks in doing everything in its power to save the euro: lowered its main refinancing rates to the effective lower bound and reduced the deposit facility rate to -0.20% and, at the same time, pursued a consistent diplomatic action aimed at reassuring stakeholders and easing market tensions, thus contributing to the stability of the euro area and preventing the emergence of new financial crises. however, we must reiterate that the economic policy of the eurozone cannot be taken by a technical body, however qualified it may be, but must depend on the political will of the european citizens: the european union's action in the economic and financial sector will not be appropriate to the particular historical moment we are living in until we complete the third pillar of the banking union, the single deposit guarantee scheme, and we change the union's economic policy by moving beyond the logic of austerity alone as a way out of the crisis and implementing a genuine policy of supranational public investment.
in writing. - i vote against it. a banking crisis is exploding in italy because of the bail-in in general european disinterest. qe didn't stop deflation and should have been done in 2011 instead of triggering the spread. the talk of sovereign debt "risk" must be eliminated and even the minimum spread that exists today must be zeroed. no sovereign debt in its own currency in the rest of the world is risky, and the very existence of the spread certifies this risk. qe should be used to buy securities in a way that zeroes out spreads, not in a proportional way. then the economic forecasts seem too optimistic: the objective analysis predicts another year of recession.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and discussion in the chamber, i gave my positive vote on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 on the basis of the following considerations: the crisis has painfully highlighted the economic difficulties faced by european citizens when structural rigidities are not promptly and decisively corrected by the member states; it follows that the ecb should be credited for defending the euro and price stability; a necessary step to correct macroeconomic imbalances and to exploit the effectiveness and flexibility of the stability pact is in any case to strengthen governance and economic policy coordination; the great fragility of the euro economy leaves ample room for political commitment by states and institutions to implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the report is the european parliament's assessment of the european central bank's performance in 2014. the initial text was in line with the position of the five star movement, as it contained a harsh criticism of the inefficiency of the anti-trust policies adopted by the ecb to rebalance the european financial situation. these measures did not achieve the desired result: the real economy is still suffering and the management of the supervisory mechanism within the ecb does not meet the necessary transparency requirements. the text of the report, as amended following the compromise reached between the various political parties, is, however, free of such criticisms. there is no reference to essential elements such as the inefficiency of the single currency and the supervisory mechanism. i therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i recognise the great contribution of the european central bank as the supervisory authority of the european banking system. the ecb's contribution includes efforts to increase low-interest lending to the benefit of the real economy and to foster economic recovery in terms of employment, growth and stability. in particular, in 2014 the european central bank implemented a series of targeted longer-term refinancing operations and purchase programmes of selected financial assets from the private sector, with the aim of supporting lending to the real economy. parliament stressed that the ecb's supervisory role and its monetary policy function must be clearly separated and that the combination of the two functions should not give rise to conflicts of interest for the ecb. the legislator stresses the need for democratic accountability in view of the new supervisory tasks conferred on the ecb and its advisory role for the troika and quadriga programmes.
in writing. ‒ let me be clear: i think the euro has been handled in a questionable way and i don't want to be a nationalist, but it cannot be denied that mario draghi makes us proud every day, as italians, of the way he fulfils his institutional duties. the criticisms initially raised in this report have been rightly reduced by the fundamental contribution of my political group, and it is right that this should be so because without its credibility on the markets and without its ability to keep its promises europe would probably be already in pieces today, and with it its states and its citizens. i congratulate mr draghi and the shadow rapporteur who has managed to put a somewhat distorted report straight.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's usual annual report on the ecb's activities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was asked to present its assessment of the european central bank's performance in 2015. the ecb's policies have proved ineffective in supporting the real economy and promoting growth, and tough decisions have been taken also in relation to the troika and the functioning of the single currency. in order to reach a compromise between the political parties, a document was produced that was far from sustainable. my criticism is mainly directed at the role of monetary policy which seems to be unsuitable to solve the emergency and crisis situation europe is facing, and i also believe that the supervisory mechanism (ssm) managed within the ecb is not adequate. for these reasons, i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ the austerity policies promoted by the ecb and the european institutions are causing rising unemployment, especially among young people, and are undermining social systems in education, health and welfare, which should be the pillars of european society. the harshest criticisms of the single currency, the ineffectiveness of european monetary policies and the lack of transparency in the ecb's bodies continue to be hidden. the eurozone member states, by relinquishing sovereignty over their own currency and banking system, have allowed for heavy interference with the fundamental right to democratic self-determination. i vote against.
in writing. - i vote against because there is no interest in the italian banking crisis and the economic forecasts seem too optimistic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report for 2014 because i believe that the european central bank has, within the limits of the treaty, ensured the stability of the euro area in these years of crisis through the use of unconventional monetary policy instruments, culminating in the quantitative easing (purchase by the escb of government bonds, covered bonds, mostly banks and bonds issued by development banks) in force since march 2015, together with traditional monetary policy instruments such as the management of official rates, gradually reduced until they are brought close to zero or even negative, to cover deposits with the ecb. the expectation of a strengthening of quantitative easing at the next meeting of the governing council of the ecb is as desirable as it is necessary to allow for better transmission of monetary policy and to increase the inflow of liquidity into the real economy. however, the deepening and strengthening of the euro area will depend on the completion of the banking union. the failure to complete the conversion is the source of distortions within the euro area between member states and ultimately between savers. the creation of a european deposit guarantee scheme is essential to address systemic risks. this is the message from the ep to the council.
in writing. strong political commitment to the implementation of sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is essential to strengthen economic growth. public and private investment in the euro area remains below pre-crisis levels. the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) will help to encourage cross-border investment and improve access to credit for businesses, in particular smes. i acknowledge the efforts made by the ecb to increase low-interest lending to the real economy and the measures taken to promote economic recovery through growth and stability. i would remind you that the ecb's primary objective is to maintain price stability and it has made every effort to meet this obligation. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on the report because the work done by the ecb in the year under review shows that it has done everything in its power to safeguard the financial stability of the eu.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2014. the ecb's monetary policy is a key pillar of the european economic recovery. the work the bank has undertaken in recent years is important and courageous, particularly with the launch of quantitative easing, which is giving european countries a favourable period to discuss and approve structural reforms that can add competitiveness to economies and reduce the burden of high unemployment that still weighs on some member states. the report also acknowledges the prominent role played by the ecb during the economic and financial crisis. in the context of this report, i would like to stress the importance of an amendment which was adopted, proposed by a coalition of more than 40 meps, which calls on the european central bank to turn the profits generated by the bank's own operations into european union resources, instead of redistributing them to the national central banks.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank committed itself in august 2012 to make every effort to defend the euro, and the commission's latest autumn forecast expects the economic recovery in the euro area to pick up. given that the ecb has implemented a number of targeted longer-term refinancing operations and purchase programmes of selected private sector financial assets in 2014 to support lending to the real economy, i am confident that further progress will be made in line with the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ the efforts made by the european central bank (ecb) in 2014 were significant. i commend the work of the ecb, its executive board, its staff and the eurosystem committees, which have responded to the challenges and enabled the governing council to fulfil its mandate and responsibilities. in 2014, several work streams, initiated in previous years, have converged into a coherent policy response. inflation appears to be returning to levels below but close to 2% over the medium term, in line with the ecb's objective. the ecb faced a complex monetary policy environment in 2014. the weak recovery in 2013 did not accelerate as initially expected. monetary growth remained subdued and credit continued to contract, albeit at a gradually slower pace. in voting in favour of this report, i hope that the ecb will continue its difficult task of improving the conditions for investment, both public and private, to boost growth and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report does not merely endorse or comment on the european central bank's activity in 2014, but also serves to put forward proposals to revive and improve the ecb's activities for the future. the report focuses in particular on financial indicators for the euro area and the ecb's quantitative easing initiative to boost the economy. the european parliament has, by its vote today, approved and supported the monetary policy pursued by the ecb to ensure price stability, but at the same time it wants to recall that these measures will not be effective unless accompanied by the necessary structural reforms, budgetary discipline and productive investment.
in writing. the european parliament presented a report assessing the ecb's performance in 2014. the report is late to the vote because of the difficulty of finding a compromise with the socialists and the people's party, who are defending the euro and the ecb in a religious way by not accepting the correct views expressed by the rapporteur and some shadow rapporteurs. the initial draft contained a strong criticism of the ecb's unconventional policies as ineffective in supporting the real economy. there was strong disapproval of austerity policies and some hints were made of the inefficiency of the euro. the rapporteur also attacked the ecb for its role in the troika. we welcomed this initial position, which was in line with our amendments. in addition to criticising the single currency and unconventional policies, we have denounced the management of the supervisory mechanism within the ecb, which we have also called for greater transparency and the role of lender of last resort. however, in order to find a compromise, all the critical and politically important parts have been deleted from the text. the result was a much more watered-down and unsustainable relationship. that is why we voted against it both in committee and in plenary.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament presented an own-initiative report to assess the ecb's performance in the previous year. the initial draft of this report contained a harsh criticism of the unconventional monetary policies initiated by the ecb as being ineffective in supporting the real economy and fostering growth. there was also strong disapproval of the austerity policies introduced after the crisis and some hints were also made about the inefficiency of the single currency. the rapporteur nevertheless attacked the ecb for its role in the troika. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the econ committee we had expressed our criticism not only of the single currency and unconventional monetary policy but also of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) operated within the ecb. we had called for greater transparency and alternative methods of unconventional monetary policy to foster economic growth; the commission has not yet adopted the amendments. that is why i voted against both in the econ committee and in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ trade relations between the eu, australia and new zealand play an important role in economic growth in europe. with this own-initiative resolution we have committed the negotiators to meaningfully addressing a number of issues of great importance. these include investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, energy, competition, the fight against corruption, international law and agriculture. because of the importance of the eu-australia-new zealand relationship for the future of the union, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are examples of established democracies in the asia-pacific region, where the rule of law is fully respected and where a high level of environmental protection and protection of human, social and employment rights is currently ensured. the european union is the third largest trading partner of these countries and has longstanding relations with them. the deepening of trade relations, with the opening of negotiations for free trade agreements, can be a great opportunity to strengthen political ties and economic growth. i supported this resolution because i am firmly convinced that agreements of this kind can have a significant positive effect. the union's efforts in this area must, however, always be directed towards strengthening human rights, labour and environmental standards. only with a strong focus on social aspects and also on the most sensitive sectors, such as agriculture, will it be possible to exploit the full potential of these agreements.
in writing. ‒ while i consider australia and new zealand to be reliable trading partners with high quality standards, i am concerned about the legal system in these countries which sees geographical indications as non-tariff barriers to free trade and which would have the direct consequence of failing to protect our typical products and our producers. that is why i did not intend to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the opening of negotiations for the establishment of a free trade area with the friendly countries of australia and new zealand is to be welcomed, with a view to achieving the functional integration of democracies with stable market economies into the economic region of the european system. only a fully global and stable market can develop economically and strengthen culturally, making its democratic institutions more solid and deepening the exchange of global goods and services.
in writing. - i vote against it. the text calls for the negotiation of a free trade agreement between the eu and australia and new zealand to be launched as soon as possible. our opposition does not mean that we do not regard these two states as reliable trading partners. the quality standards of the regulations are very high on both fronts. what the northern league delegation disputes is that an agricultural reality such as australia could, in the event of a free trade agreement, represent a real danger for our operators in the sector. the lega nord has tabled two important amendments: - one to ask for a careful assessment of the australian and new zealand regulations on intellectual property and quality of production processes; - one to ask that the dairy sector and the meat sector (beef and pig) be excluded from any negotiations. it should be remembered, however, that in countries such as australia and new zealand - as well as in the usa - there is a legal system based on trademarks which sees the latter as having priority over our geographical indications. moreover, in reality, like the anglo-saxon law, geographical indications are considered to be genuine non-tariff barriers to free trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following question for oral answer b8-0101/2016 on the opening of fta negotiations with australia and new zealand. i am particularly pleased that the report states that agriculture is a very sensitive sector and that a balanced final outcome in the agriculture and fisheries chapters must take due account of the interests of all european producers, for example those in the canning sector, meat, dairy, sugar, cereals and textiles. it is also worth noting the call for the inclusion of effective bilateral safeguard measures to avoid a surge in imports which could cause serious damage to european producers in sensitive sectors. in this respect, it is recalled, for example, that australia has imposed customs duties on processed products based on italian tomatoes since 2014. these, together with other key points, such as the request that the opening of negotiations be made conditional on the commitment of all parties to conduct negotiations in the most transparent manner possible, are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution stresses the importance for economic growth of deepening the union's trade relations with the asia-pacific region, especially australia and new zealand. they are a key component of the strategy in that they are also markets which can mitigate the potential diversionary effects of the recently concluded tpp with the united states. the text also mentions the need for closer convergence and cooperation on international standards without lowering the level of consumer (e.g. food safety), environmental (e.g. animal health and welfare, plant health) or social and labour protection. the central importance of the agricultural sector and the delicate approach it requires are also underlined. i voted in favour without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the proposals as i share the choice of the european parliament which, following the launch of the new european strategy for trade and investment, has decided to start preliminary talks with countries such as australia and new zealand in order to strengthen the prospects for economic integration in the south east pacific areas. the negotiations, which should lead to strong and enforceable provisions in a range of areas, require impact assessments on the overall sustainability of the potential agreements with a view to fully assessing the potential benefits and losses that would result from a strengthening of the eu's trade and investment relations with australia and new zealand, to the benefit of their respective people and businesses, including the outermost regions and the overseas countries and territories.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this proposal, which i voted in favour of, allows me to recall an important principle that many seem to have forgotten: negotiations for international treaties are conducted on the basis of clear and precise mandates and in the interests of citizens. this is true of the future free trade area with australia and new zealand, it is true of ttip. trade policy is not about slogans, but about creating opportunities for companies and therefore for workers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ deepening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region is important for economic growth in europe and this is reflected in the european trade policy which sees australia and new zealand as key components of this strategy. in this sense, i am in favour of opening negotiations on a modern, ambitious and balanced free trade agreement in accordance with the economic characteristics of the two states.
in writing. ‒ both australia and new zealand have oriented their trade policies towards the eu. today's global economy is highly integrated and global supply chains have largely replaced traditional trade. the eu's trade strategy aims to strengthen the union's policy and to contribute to the promotion of growth, employment and investment. trade relations with australia and new zealand can therefore help to promote common values and interests by addressing investment, trade in goods and services, public procurement, energy, competition, anti-corruption and the needs of smes, without compromising consumer and environmental protection. the agricultural sector must certainly be of strategic importance in relations between countries. i shall vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution authorises the commission to open negotiations for the free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. by voting in favour of the resolution, i intend to support the opening of transparent and inclusive negotiations involving civil society and all the social partners. i believe that a deepening of trade relations with australia and new zealand, which takes account of issues such as investment, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, competition and the needs of smes, can make a positive contribution to economic growth in europe in all areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and australia and new zealand. today there is a substantial trade flow between the european union and australia and new zealand, countries with which our continent has always had close links and shared common values and for whom the eu is already the third most important trading partner. australia and new zealand, however, remain two of the few wto members that do not enjoy any preferential access to our market. i am convinced that the european union must seize a great opportunity to develop ever closer economic relations with countries such as australia and new zealand, advanced economies which have always been committed to advancing the multilateral agenda. at the same time, negotiators will need to work towards balanced, in-depth and ambitious agreements which take due account of the recommendations made by the european parliament in this resolution, with particular attention to sensitive areas such as agriculture and fisheries and the protection and promotion of intellectual property rights, including geographical indications. it will also be important to ensure the transparency of these negotiations by maintaining a constant dialogue with civil society and social partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade area with australia and new zealand. the agreement will enable the european union and its member states to further integrate into the regional market. the european commission should commit itself to launching negotiations as soon as possible to promote the conclusion of modern, innovative free trade and preferential access agreements with australia and new zealand.
in writing. ‒ i am against this because, despite australia and new zealand being reliable trading partners, free trade with these countries could pose a danger to economic operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following the question with oral answer under rule 128 on the opening of negotiations on free trade agreements (ftas) with australia and new zealand. i believe that the opening of fta negotiations can give the european union the opportunity to strengthen and deepen relations with these two distant countries in oceania, the only ones at present among the member states of the world trade organisation without privileged trade channels with the eu. with a view to fair, profitable and comprehensive agreements and closer cooperation between the two countries, i believe it is ambitious to follow up the existing investment partnerships with free trade agreements in order to create more trade opportunities, especially for smes. finally, i stress the need to take due account of the interests of all economic operators, especially those in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, when negotiating the agreement, and i call on the commission to carry out as soon as possible an impact assessment of these agreements in the eu territories.
in writing. australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest partners. both are involved in the recently concluded negotiations for a trans-pacific partnership (tpp) and the ongoing negotiations for a regional comprehensive economic partnership (rcep) in east asia, which includes the major trading partners of australia and new zealand. it is also safe to say that both countries ensure a high level of environmental protection and protection of human, social and employment rights. it is vital for the european union to strengthen its relations with the asia-pacific region and both countries are key to achieving this objective. the negotiation of two separate modern and ambitious free trade agreements certainly has important aspects to address, such as investment, trade in goods and services, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition and, above all, the needs and interests of smes. i believe that these negotiations will be beneficial to all parties concerned and i have therefore decided to give my favourable opinion to this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the opening of negotiations with australia and new zealand for the definition of a trade agreement aimed at creating a free trade area. the two countries are historic allies of the european union and share the same approach to major global issues. the aim, in line with european trade policy, is to foster economic growth while helping to define the rules of the globalization playing field. the close proximity of values, for example in the exchange of data, the complementarity, particularly strong in the agricultural sector because of the different succession of seasons, and the low volume of trade also ensure a low level of risk for the european manufacturing sector. we are in favour of safeguard clauses, particularly for agri-food imports, in order to ensure maximum protection against any distortions on the european market. we also call on the european commission to negotiate the recognition and greater protection of geographical indications, which are of great interest to the european union. in line with the orientation of european trade policy, we stress the need for the final text of the agreement to include a specific chapter on the needs and facilitation of the internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ we all know that australia and new zealand are among the eu's oldest and closest partners, sharing common values and committed to promoting prosperity and security within a global rules-based system. we have always worked together to address common challenges across a wide range of issues, which is why modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive agreements would take economic relations to a new level. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the opening of negotiations on two separate, modern and ambitious free trade agreements with australia and new zealand is a way to further strengthen existing bilateral trade and investment relations. these negotiations must take place in a spirit of reciprocity and in the interests of both parties. at the same time, since agriculture and fisheries are very sensitive sectors, i hope that the commission will take due account of the interests of all european producers, for example by introducing transitional periods or by avoiding commitments in the most sensitive sectors. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today sets out the european parliament's position on the opening of negotiations for free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. the european union has agreements and relationships with a wide range of partners to promote growth and jobs in europe by opening up new markets with the rest of the world. australia and new zealand are a key component in eu relations with the asia-pacific region, and i believe that the expansion and deepening of trade relations with these two countries will lead to a strengthening of european trade policy in that region, with mutual benefits both in terms of market access, especially for smes, and sustainable development and investment.
in writing. ‒ animal mobility is closely linked to human mobility. in addition to the normal transport of pets in the schengen area, numerous non-governmental organisations have highlighted the illegal trafficking of pets. in order to harmonize european legislation on the transport of pet animals and to protect the health of citizens and animals, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states. several european countries currently have mechanisms for the registration and identification of pet animals, but most of these databases are not yet compatible. this blocking of the flow of information creates a problem of limited traceability, especially in the case of movements within the union. the lack of access to correct information on animals is a major obstacle to the fight against illegal trade. the latter, in addition to being a major source of transport violations, controls being evaded and documents being falsified, represent a real threat to the health and welfare of animals and humans. introducing compatible systems for animal registration therefore means recognising the important role that pets play in the lives of millions of european people and families, while ensuring safe and controlled journeys for them within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the text of the resolution effectively addresses current animal welfare issues such as the illegal trade in wild animals sold as pets. i think it is important to develop a definite system of identification and registration of pet animals at european level, to fill the current gaps in the legislation on the subject, and for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ pet animals in the illegal trade are often poorly bred, poorly socialized and more at risk of disease. illegal trade fuels the escape of exotic or wild animals into an environment devoid of their natural enemies, which can lead to their uncontrolled spread, with deleterious consequences for the environment, public health and the economy. in addition, the illegal trade in wildlife is one of the most widespread activities of transnational organised crime worldwide and is a cause of habitat depletion and species conservation threats. it is therefore important that the european union should draw up a common regulation and start a process of establishing a european pet database with tools for identifying and tracking animals in their cross-border movements, in order to limit illegal trade and protect the health of european citizens and their pets.
in writing. - i vote for it. there is evidence of increasing abuse of the pet transport regime, exploited for commercial purposes, and of increasing trade, both legal and illegal, in wild animals normally kept as pets. the commission is therefore requested to issue as soon as possible a delegated act laying down rules on detailed and compatible systems for the means and methods of identification and registration of pet animals as set out in annex i to the regulation on transmissible animal diseases. the introduction of compatible systems for the identification and registration of pet animals in the eu will bring benefits that go beyond simply tackling illegal trade; those benefits include traceability of disease outbreaks, the fight against animal abuse and addressing other animal welfare concerns.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states. the report condemned the illegal practice of trading in domestic animals, including wild and exotic animals, stressing that the lack of vaccination or appropriate antiviral treatment and veterinary and health care between illegally traded animals increases the risks of infection and this often results in the need to treat animals with antibiotics with increased risk of antimicrobial resistance. in addition, illegal animal trafficking is one of the most widespread activities of transnational organised crime worldwide. it is therefore necessary for the commission to consider the possibility of introducing additional measures to combat illegal trade in pet animals and wild animals used as such.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the commission to adopt measures to establish uniform rules on systems for identifying pet animals transiting through the territory of the member states. in fact, although some states already have systems for the mandatory registration and identification of pet animals, there are still differences in the type of information to be recorded and the management of the information. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that an integrated system of collection and exchange of information between member states can be an important tool in the suppression of such deplorable phenomena as illegal animal trafficking and abandonment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the introduction of compatible systems for the identification and registration of pet animals in the eu will bring benefits that go beyond simply tackling illegal trade. those benefits include traceability of disease outbreaks, the fight against animal abuse and addressing other animal welfare concerns.
in writing. ‒ i am glad to have seen for myself that the eu does not want to impose unnecessary obligations on pet owners, but responds to an important scientific need: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which is certainly not yet another bureaucratization of a process.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is based on the fact that non-governmental sources, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians are increasingly pointing to an increase in the illegal trade in pet animals. this includes violations of the animal transport regime, circumvention of controls and falsification of documents. it has also been confirmed that this form of illegal trade, increasingly linked to organised crime, is the third most profitable after drug and arms trafficking within the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the creation of a system for the registration of animals throughout europe, which will be facilitated by the existing identification systems in most member states, which will have to be linked together.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution aims to introduce compatible systems for the identification and registration of pet animals in the eu, seeking to create a common policy to overcome the current regulatory differences between member states. the new systems will bring benefits including traceability of disease outbreaks, combating animal abuse, tackling illegal trade, as well as addressing other animal welfare concerns. i am voting in favour, considering the important role of pets in the lives of millions of people and families across europe and the benefit of being able to travel safely and in a controlled manner with your pets.
in writing. ‒ although many member states already have mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, there are still many differences within the eu as regards the type of information recorded, the animals subject to identification and registration obligations and the administrative level at which this information is held. these differences are a major contributor to phenomena such as document forgery and illegal trade. the european parliament resolution which i voted for calls on the commission to take measures for the identification and registration of pet animals. i believe that these measures will have a number of benefits which go beyond simply tackling illegal trade and include tracing outbreaks of disease, combating animal abuse and addressing other animal welfare concerns.
in writing. ‒ although many member states have mandatory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, there are discrepancies in the type of information recorded and the animals to which these requirements apply. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the existence of compatible systems for the identification and registration of dogs and cats would reduce the possibilities of falsification of documents and illegal trade, protect public and animal health and ensure effective traceability within the union.
in writing. the resolution calls on eu countries to establish uniform identification and registration systems and to apply stricter rules for the movement of animals with a disease. trafficking in animals, including wild and exotic animals, is increasingly linked to organised crime and represents a public health risk, with 70% of new human diseases in recent decades being of animal origin. the obligation to establish a comprehensive database will reduce the possibility of falsification of documents and will help to combat illegal trade, facilitating the traceability of outbreaks and the fight against animal abuse. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report calling for a delegated act to allow the identification and registration of pet animals.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, pets, beloved by millions of european citizens, have increasingly been the target of illegal trafficking, which not only causes them terrible suffering, but also fuels the illegal activities of numerous criminal organisations. with today's resolution, we have highlighted the weaknesses of the legislation and indicated the way to ensure both animal welfare and the fight against organised crime, through the introduction of standardised european standards on microchips and harmonised national registers at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in the member states because i believe that compatible requirements at european level for identification and registration would be a very effective tool in the fight against illegal trade in pet animals and an additional element to ensure animal health. i think it is important that the eu should take action to put an end to the unfortunately widespread practice of mistreating animals during transport and the lack of compulsory vaccination, which is linked to the very serious phenomenon of wildlife trade for domestic and companion animals. this is a business often in the hands of criminal organizations and it jeopardizes the respect and success of the important initiatives taken by europe on animal passports and animal health legislation. i therefore believe that, while respecting the rules and characteristics of the various member states, it is necessary to approximate the information provided and recorded by the member states on the identification of dogs, cats and pets, combating the falsification of documents and allowing the traceability of sales and purchases within the union.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that the third most profitable form of illegal trade within the eu is that of pets. despite recent progress, there are still deep concerns about the information provided in the passports of these animals, and the lack of knowledge of the town of origin, the breeding stock from which they come and other important data adds to the various concerns. i therefore vote in favour of ensuring that the disease prevention and control measures laid down in the regulation on transmissible animal diseases are effectively applied and that they promote the traceability of pet animals, their movements within and between member states and their entry into the union.
in writing. ‒ the pet travel scheme (pets) is a system which allows animals to move freely from one member state to another and sets out rules for the safety and welfare of dogs and cats involved in commercial practices. it should be stressed, however, that despite the existence of numerous rules for the protection of pets, there are still serious problems to be solved, first and foremost the illegal transport of puppies from eastern europe. in italy alone, the trade in puppies is a real business that moves about 300 million euros a year: eastern puppies bought for around 60 euros have come at prices up to 20 times higher, once their origin has been changed from eastern european to italian. i therefore gave my full support to this report as it recognises that the introduction of an eu identification and registration system for the trade in pet animals could bring benefits that go beyond simply tackling illegal trade, such as tracing outbreaks of disease to protect public and animal health against the risk of infection and to combat animal abuse.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the resolution to introduce compatible systems for the registration of animals in the member states. the resolution calls for the creation of a uniform european database for the registration and identification of animals, which will also be compatible with the databases of the member states in order to improve the traceability of pets. the existence of a compatible system for the identification and registration of wild animals commonly kept as pet animals would reduce illegal trade and improve the protection of public and animal health as well as biodiversity. a compatible system at european level should ensure the effective application of the measures for the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. since pets are a major part of the lives of many families, the eu has a duty to control and protect them.
in writing. ‒ the situation of grave crisis, political and social uncertainty that continues to afflict yemen is the result of the inability to give a political outcome to the demands for democracy and openness supported by the civilian population. food insecurity, malnutrition, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, destruction of medical and civilian infrastructure are daily problems generated by the persistent state of internal warfare in the country. the presence of a large number of hybrid actors in the conflict does not facilitate the resolution of the conflict, but requires the cooperation of all the powers in the area, in particular saudi arabia and iran, to initiate the peace process. i signed and supported the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because i am convinced that only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution can guarantee the cessation of violence. the eu must commit itself to promoting respect for international humanitarian law and to fostering a new round of negotiations under the auspices of the un.
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of his mandate, the un special envoy, ismail ould cheikh ahmed, has been active in holding un-facilitated peace talks to mediate the difficult humanitarian situation due to the ongoing civil war in yemen. such mediation efforts must be supported because the humanitarian cost in terms of civilian casualties and the destruction of housing and production and trade facilities is now so great that it is beyond the ability of international organizations to help. military response cannot be the solution because all the efforts made so far by both the saudi coalition and the houthi rebels and their allies have only exacerbated the ongoing grave humanitarian crisis and allowed al-qaeda and daesh to strengthen their presence in the area and increase the effectiveness and scope of their terrorist actions, with obvious negative repercussions for both parties and the international community. the un mediation is needed for a truce between the parties and an international humanitarian operation to help the civilian population of yemen.
in writing. - the final vote is abstention. the situation in yemen is very confused and the parties to the conflict are accusing each other of human rights violations. the adoption of sanctions against saudi arabia (as mentioned in amendment no 1) is not only illiberal but also likely to harm the interests of our productive apparatus.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. the humanitarian situation in the country remains dire: almost two thirds of the population need aid and assistance. the united nations has rated the ongoing humanitarian crisis as a level 3, the highest category. 80% of the population, over 20 million people, are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. it is necessary to resume the peace talks as this conflict can only be resolved through an inclusive and negotiated political solution leading to the formation of a national unity government in order to restore peace and deal with the humanitarian crisis. the european union must make its voice heard and ensure, working together with the international community, a political solution to the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen and i am particularly pleased with the adoption of the amendment expressly calling for the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to launch an initiative to impose a block on the flow of arms to saudi arabia. the five star movement in europe has fought hard for the adoption of this amendment and it is an important victory that sends a clear message from europe about the ongoing conflict.
in writing. ‒ yemen is the poorest country in the arabian peninsula: 47% of its population live below the poverty line and it has one of the highest rates of malnutrition in the world. the conflict in yemen is therefore adding to the already precarious poverty situation in the country, creating a deep and widespread humanitarian crisis that has generated large internal migration flows and a sharp rise in the prices of basic necessities. the figures provided by humanitarian organizations paint a very disheartening picture: the un has also been involved in the negotiations on the peace process in yemen. as is often the case in these cases, children are the ones who are most affected by the conflict in yemen today, with severe repercussions on children's access to education, as highlighted by unicef, and the closure of many of the hospitals that provided primary health care to thousands of children, who are now in a situation of extreme risk. i fully share the concerns and the demands contained in the motion for a resolution and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe it is the duty of parliament to speak out in favour of the cessation of hostilities in yemen. the conflict, characterised by systematic violations of international humanitarian and human rights law, has led the country to a disastrous situation. the high number of deaths and the social tragedy of the population are combined with the serious damage to yemen's infrastructure and historical heritage. parliament reaffirmed its commitment to support yemen and the yemeni people and called for the deployment of coordinated humanitarian action under the auspices of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ it is important to remember that the eu, as a non-state, cannot intervene in the situation of other member states, whatever it may be. however, this does not allow us to turn a blind eye to the serious humanitarian shortages in yemen. i voted in favour of this resolution to put some diplomatic pressure on the authorities concerned to realise that the problem must be solved as soon as possible. it was all i could do, and i did it.
in writing. ‒ the current crisis in yemen is the result of the failure of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. unfortunately, this inability has created the conditions for the outbreak of a violent conflict which has led to a disastrous humanitarian situation for the population and a threat to international peace and security. the resolution calls for coordinated humanitarian action by all countries, under the leadership of the united nations, to allow immediate entry and distribution of food, medicine and fuel and other necessary assistance. it is worth recalling that some eu member states are complicit in this catastrophic situation, as they continue to allow the transfer of arms and related items to saudi arabia, in violation of common position 2008/944/cfsp on arms export controls. i am voting in favour, hoping that the eu and all the member states will cooperate to ensure that international humanitarian law is respected and that the illegal attacks, and in particular the arms shipments to yemen by some european countries through the imposition of the embargo, are stopped.
in writing. ‒ the current crisis in yemen, the result of governments' failure to respond to the demands for democracy, development, stability and security, has created the conditions for violent conflict. the saudi-led military intervention - including the use of cluster bombs - has created a tragic humanitarian situation. since the conflict began, just under 6,000 people have been killed, nearly half of them civilians, including hundreds of women and children. in addition, the fighting and bombing have disrupted the provision of essential services, increasing the humanitarian need, which now covers over 80% of the population. we are faced with two orders of problems. on the one hand, there is a strong need for humanitarian action, including coordinated by the united nations, to have access to the conflict zones to distribute food, medicine and fuel that are urgently needed, as well as a humanitarian truce to provide assistance and first aid to the yemeni population. secondly, we must raise public awareness and the authorities to impose an immediate embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia. we believe it is our duty to prevent by all means private interests from contributing to the increase in the suffering and the emergency of the yemeni people.
in writing. ‒ on 10 january 2016, a hospital funded by médecins sans frontières (msf) was bombed in northern yemen; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the country is not further worsened. a political crisis that has lasted for too many years and has resulted in a disastrous humanitarian situation just think that 82% of people in yemen are in need of humanitarian aid today while consolidating the presence of daesh and other terrorist groups. the resolution of this humanitarian crisis can only be achieved through a diplomatic and political process that favours the resumption of negotiations and genuine dialogue between the parties, under the auspices of the united nations and in compliance with the parameters set out in resolution 2216 of 2015. the union and its institutions must work in the coming months to stop this humanitarian crisis: the european union must not allow yemen to become a breeding ground for terrorist organizations and the so-called islamic state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling for a ceasefire to end the attacks on civilians, humanitarian and health personnel, the fighting on the ground and the bombing by saudi and arab-sunni coalition aircraft in the state of yemen. the ceasefire is now more necessary than ever to allow humanitarian aid to reach the civilian population affected by the conflict. i believe that only an inclusive and negotiated political solution can restore peace and preserve the unity of yemen. that is why i urge the un to conduct a new round of negotiations with all parties to the conflict.
in writing. - i abstain because the situation in yemen is very confusing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because i consider the conditions of the population of the arabian peninsula to be absolutely tragic and unacceptable. the continuing and unheeded demands of the yemeni people for the opening up of democratic institutions have led to the outbreak of a terrible civil war, with extremely high human costs and serious repercussions not only for the security and stability of the middle east region but also in other hot spots on the planet. the most dramatic consequences are affecting civilians who, due to clashes between different militias and bombings, lack access to essential services and food and are at serious risk of malnutrition, as well as being targeted by indiscriminate attacks by al-qaeda and isis terrorists, who have increased their presence in the territory. i would stress the need for humanitarian action under the auspices of the un and for the immediate distribution of food, medicine and all the necessary assistance. finally, i welcome the approval here of the request to launch an initiative to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia because of the serious human rights violations against the yemenis.
in writing. the saudi-led military intervention in yemen has killed at least 5,979 people and wounded 28,208. it is unacceptable that almost 2.1 million people are malnourished, including over 1.3 million children suffering from severe acute malnutrition. the european union has already allocated eur 52 million in humanitarian aid in 2015 and will provide up to eur 2 million for the establishment of the united nations verification and inspection mechanism (unvim) for commercial shipments to yemen. the european union deplores the fact that civilian targets, including hospitals, schools, markets, grain depots, ports and a displaced persons camp, have been hit, seriously damaging essential aid infrastructure and contributing to the severe food and fuel shortages in the country. we strongly condemn the above actions and reaffirm our support for the yemeni people. the european union is also calling for a political dialogue with saudi arabia to ensure that international humanitarian law is respected and for effective diplomatic action to promote compliance with international humanitarian obligations.
in writing. ‒ in view of the extremely serious humanitarian situation facing the yemeni people, exhausted by a prolonged and violent conflict, we can only welcome the resolution. after a careful assessment of the saudi-led military campaign, we express our deep concern about the manner in which it has been carried out. the use of cluster bombs and the destruction of hospitals and medicine stores raises serious doubts about compliance with international humanitarian law. the failure of all parties to respect the ceasefire and the ineffectiveness of diplomatic deterrence require us to take a more decisive stand. in view of the violation of common position 2008/944/cfsp, which provides for the suspension of arms supplies where there is a risk that they may be used in violation of international humanitarian law or where there is a suspicion that their use could lead to regional destabilisation, we call for an embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia. the humanitarian situation, with over 21 million civilians in dire need of humanitarian assistance, has been further worsened by the saudi-led coalition's naval blockade and destruction of national infrastructure, which prevent any relief from the suffering of the yemeni people. the resolution, calling for an immediate ceasefire, is therefore strongly supported.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing conflict in yemen stems from the failure of successive governments to respond to the democratic, economic and social aspirations of the yemeni people, fuelling the discontent and divisions that have resulted in the current violence. i am voting in favour, hoping that these situations will improve.
in writing. ‒ since the start of the conflict in yemen, at least 5,979 people have been killed and 28,208 injured. among the victims are hundreds of women and children. in addition, the humanitarian impact on the civilian population, as a result of the ongoing clashes between the various militias, the bombing and the disruption of the provision of essential services, is reaching alarming proportions. the eu has already allocated eur 52 million in 2015 in humanitarian aid for the crisis in yemen and will allocate another eur 2 million for the development of the un verification and inspection mechanism (unvim) for commercial transport to yemen, thereby facilitating the free flow of commercial goods and humanitarian aid to the country. i hope that the conflict can be resolved by reaching a political solution and by starting as soon as possible a new round of peace negotiations under the auspices of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, conflicts and the resulting humanitarian crises continue to escalate and intensify around us. with today's vote on yemen, we want to express our deep concern about the ongoing violence in yemen and the resulting humanitarian crisis, urge all yemeni parties, in particular the houthis, to work to reconcile their differences through dialogue and we believe that saudi arabia and iran are the key to resolving the crisis, and urge both to act in a pragmatic and good faith manner to end the fighting in yemen.
in writing. ‒ the conflict in yemen is being fought with a total disregard for the rules of war. medical facilities in the country have been attacked several times recently. the european union must call on all the warring parties to allow unrestricted and unimpeded access for humanitarian workers and relief workers to the yemeni people, who are in dire need of urgently needed assistance, and who are therefore calling for a humanitarian pause to allow this vital aid to reach the yemeni people urgently. the conflict can only be resolved through a political, inclusive and negotiated solution. all parties must make a good faith commitment to launch a new round of peace negotiations under the auspices of the united nations as soon as possible.
the programme for the distribution of fruit and milk in schools is one of the most important educational measures put in place by the union to encourage young europeans to eat healthy food and to learn about and consume the traditional products of our land. i would therefore like to thank my colleague, mr marc tarabella, and our entire negotiating team for the excellent work they have done and the important result they have achieved, including and above all in guaranteeing the european parliament its fundamental democratic role as co-legislator. i would also like to thank the commission for this, which has maintained the position of the european parliament to the end. despite the council's choice to challenge important points in the initial proposal, an ambitious agreement was reached introducing wider education measures, together with a more equitable distribution of funds among the member states. this european plan is therefore firmly embedded in a process which aims to make food culture one of the cornerstones of the union's policies for the younger generations.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr tarabella for his excellent work in summarizing the situation and also for the way he conducted the trilogue negotiations, which brought home a good result from our point of view. first of all, the budget, then the appropriate amount of funds for the school milk and fruit scheme. but secondly, the aim of this programme is very important, which is to educate young people to consume fresh produce, limiting the use of added sugars and salts. in fact, in a continent where 26 percent of adults are overweight, it is absolutely essential that we start in schools to teach and understand how to go about eating healthy, responsible and sustainable food. now, when it comes to implementing the programme, we must not train ourselves but make sure in our member states that this programme is implemented as correctly as possible and that all the necessary checks are also carried out. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that it is essential to work on the education of children in general, so that the young people of today, who will be the adults of the future, arrive in the world of work and in the world in general with full awareness, which will help us all, regardless of the diversity of views expressed today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank mr tarabella for the tenacity, the conviction and the passion with which he conducted the negotiations and brought the work on this regulation to a conclusion. the following measures are proposed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the regimes for the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools are in fact about the health of our children, who should follow a balanced diet and be attentive to their nutritional needs and the school, also, plays a central role in this. the educational aspect is central: in a globalized world, the food supply is very high. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. finally, i thank the rapporteur for including in the regulation an aspect which is particularly close to my heart. the products distributed in schools must be locally produced. regional production must be given priority in order to support markets which are suffering greatly, but also because the link with the land and with the agriculture of one's own territory is rediscovered by traditions and self-knowledge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr marc tarabella, on the achievement of this important report on the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. one of the key objectives is to counter the current decline in consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially among children, as well as to educate on healthy eating and to counter the increase in the incidence of childhood obesity due to consumption patterns oriented towards food products that often contain high doses of added sugars, salt, fats and additives. i welcome the accompanying educational measures to support distribution included in the agreement and it is important to introduce children to agriculture and to introduce young citizens to food and its origin, to familiarize them with their taste and with the varieties of agricultural products in the union, particularly those produced in their region, with the help of, for example, nutritionists and farmers. this is a very good result, for encouraging the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk. i believe, however, that in order to verify the effectiveness of the member states' programmes, it will be appropriate to provide for monitoring and evaluation of the results achieved, with particular attention to the medium-term change in consumption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have had to deal with a number of health emergencies caused by diseases which have been transmitted from animals to humans and which have also caused deaths. swine fever and avian influenza are the worst cases, the ones that are exaggerated in the media, but there are several diseases, threats of communicable diseases, that this animal health regulation is intended to combat. i would like to thank the colleagues who worked with me on this proposal, the rapporteur and mr paulsen, who has concluded his term of office with this regulation, achieving great success and winning wide support among all the groups. there are two aspects i would like to stress today: the first is that we have finally put it in writing, that the health of animals depends on their welfare, that is, on their living conditions. an animal that is abused can never be a healthy animal. article 13 of the treaty recognises that animals are sentient beings and we call on all those who deal with animals, from farmers to owners, to avoid their suffering and pain by applying the principle of good breeding to animals and humane treatment to animals. then there is the prevention aspect: the transmission of diseases should be prevented rather than prevented through better animal husbandry and responsible use of veterinary medicines; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this disease. the importance of this regulation lies in its setting up of a single regulatory framework, compared to the 40 different previous legislative acts, some of which were from the 1960s. clear rules on animal welfare and health are still needed in a europe where cases of unjustified violence and outright torture of animals are still too often tolerated or even ignored.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the inadequate use of therapeutic antimicrobials in veterinary medicine, their use for non-therapeutic purposes and environmental pollution have accelerated the emergence and spread of resistant microorganisms, with serious consequences for animal and human health. the actions taken have not succeeded in containing the growing risk of antimicrobial resistance. it is necessary to strengthen the measures currently in force and to adopt a new set of more stringent measures, in particular on the prevention of antimicrobial infections, in order to reduce the pressure on the use of antimicrobials and to prevent their further spread. member states should endeavour to collect relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the actual use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals and to transmit them to the commission, in order to allow policies to encourage more prudent use in animals and thus to reduce the risk of antimicrobial resistance. it would be desirable for the commission to undertake to publish a report on the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in the treatment of animals in the european union on the basis of data obtained from individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report seems to have understood the differences between the various european ports. the most significant innovation in the report is the abolition of the provisions on access to the market for port services in favour of more flexible organisational models and greater discretion for member states. there can be no single legislative solution for all european ports, given their diversity. but it is important to ensure autonomy, to establish transparent rules and to make ports more competitive. although the report has been modified in several ways, it is nevertheless an important change, which adds a significant social dimension to the port policy of the european union. i am glad that the report recognises the role of the sectoral social partners in dealing with issues such as automation and technological innovation. the social dialogue must play a crucial role in the fight against precarious work, which is unfortunately particularly widespread in the countries of southern europe. we will do everything possible to ensure that the principles of social rights, transparency in public funds, state aid, the exclusion of small ports and excessive administrative burdens are retained in the text that will be submitted for signature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner, and i commend the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. i would like to thank in particular mrs vozemberg, who is the shadow rapporteur for my group. the effort that has been made to try to bring together the many different needs of europe's many ports is to be commended, even if the response is not always satisfactory, as many colleagues have said. and what are the points on which we will pay attention and monitor during the trilogue negotiation phase so that the strengths of the ports' presence in the european development system are guaranteed? the first point is that it is clear that not all ports, as we said, are the same. and there is a clear differentiation between what happens in the ports of northern europe and what happens in the ports of southern europe. in my country, italy, we have a huge number of passengers, including tourists, who account for some seven to eight million arrivals a year, almost 23% of movements on the continent. we are aware of the enormous numbers of goods that pass through european ports - more than 75% of imports and exports, more than 37% of the internal market - and therefore we know how necessary and complicated it is to bring all these needs together. in this respect, therefore, we also call for attention in the social field to ensure that ports continue to be the focal point for major investments in the future of europe. so we say yes to the negotiation and yes to this report, but with particular attention to ensure that all these different requirements converge towards a great common objective.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank the committee on budgetary control and in particular the rapporteur, mep benedek jávor, for the 2014 report on the protection of the eu’s financial interests, and also to express our gratitude for the strong commitment of parliament to the fight against fraud. we fully share this commitment and welcome the report’s analysis, as well as many very valuable recommendations which we will thoroughly follow up on. let me flag up some of the key recommendations and how we are going about them. first, reporting on irregularities. parliament has requested, and rightly so, to improve the comparability of data reported by member states so we can actually have a picture that is understandable and allows us to draw conclusions from it. we have adopted in 2015 a new regulation concerning reporting on irregularities and on that basis we have launched with the participation of national experts the preparation of new guidelines on reporting. on that basis, data would now feed a new improved version of the irregularities reporting systems and i am very pleased to inform you that we expect this new improved system to be operational in the second quarter of 2016. secondly, national anti-fraud strategies. as the rapporteur pointed out, we have obligations together with member states. member states are becoming increasingly more effective in fighting fraud and this is visible by the increase of detection and also prosecution of fraud cases: 1 649 cases overall. this is more than in 2013, but the recovery rate has to be beefed up, it has to be improved, and we believe that a lot more can be done in prevention, detection, reporting, prosecution and sanctioning if we are to have member states embracing what parliament is supporting very much, namely national anti-fraud strategies. so far this is not mandatory, it is voluntary. five member states have adopted such strategies. we encourage others to do it and we work already with those who have done it so we can actually improve the actions on the basis of exchange of best practices and experience. third, the rapporteur mentioned public procurement following the special report of the court of auditors on this issue, on public procurement. the commission is looking at how to improve the functionalities of the irregularities management system which i mentioned, and the possibility to have interoperability between different databases so we can make best possible use of information and, of course, enhance transparency. we know that transparency is the taxpayers’ best friend, so the more we can do in this area, the better for the protection of the financial interests. there is a proposal to publish beneficiaries, and i want to clarify that the current legislation already foresees this and lists the type of information that needs to be published. fourth, corruption indicators. concerning statistics and indicators on corruption in the member states, there are significant differences in terms of definition and statistical recording practices, so we have to work on that over the medium term so we can have greater availability of corruption information, and i want to use this moment to respond. yes, we are working on the biannual anti-corruption report so it will be available in 2016. fifth, the follow-up of olaf recommendations at national level and the establishment of a european prosecutor’s office. we agree that comprehensive prosecution of crimes against the eu’s financial interests is essential and that more has to be done in member states to follow up on olaf’s recommendations and also to provide feedback to olaf on actions taken. we think that the establishment of the european prosecutor’s office will help us in this regard and we also believe that the evaluation of regulation 883/2013 governing olaf’s investigations, to be completed by 2017, will provide an opportunity also in this regard. like the rapporteur, we believe that vat fraud should be part of the work of the european public prosecutor’s office, it should be covered by the pif regulation. we also believe that it is essential that the mandate of the eppo is clear about that and that discussions between the co-legislators should be brought to a successful conclusion as soon as possible, so that we have the best possible eppo we can design. finally, there has been a question in the committee on what we can do specifically on the independence of olaf’s supervisory committee secretariat. i want to take the opportunity to report that on 4 march we have taken a decision in the commission and we adopted a proposal for an amendment of the olaf regulation to transfer the supervisory committee secretariat to the commission and we hope that there will be swift action by the legislator to adopt this proposal, so any appearance of a conflict of interests, any perceived conflict of interest can be eliminated. i thank members for their attention and i look forward to the debate this evening.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european parliament and council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that maintaining the trust of european citizens in the union's institutions and their support for the project of european integration must remain one of the main objectives at the heart of the policy pursued by the commission to protect the union's financial interests. corruption and fraud against the union budget are directly proportional to a lack of transparency in the procedures for allocating and managing and spending european funds. i therefore believe that a clear distinction between fraud and error is necessary and that information should be given both on the most frequent fraud and error, with concrete examples, so that the users of eu funds and the managing authorities are better informed and can thus distinguish clearly between fraud and error, perhaps due to difficulties that we will try to temper and reduce with the work of the better regulation project. but in the meantime, i think that making this clear distinction between the two types can help users a lot and also help us find out who the real fraudsters are.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when governments, which call themselves europeanists, have to take measures to protect the interests of european taxpayers, they immediately become sceptical and, in order to share the money in the shadows, are prepared to postpone the adoption of important decisions on cooperation and the exchange of information and transparency, such as those contained in the directive on the protection of financial interests. we can no longer accept the easy waste and fraud of european funds for regional management, the lack of transparency in the documentation of contracts awarded directly, the fact that national control authorities are appointed by controlled entities in conflict of interest and that they certify the expenditure and, above all, the lack of willingness of governments to cooperate seriously in the exchange of tax and banking information. this is essential if we are to combat tax evasion and avoidance and money laundering. a recent eurodad report sees juncker's luxembourg as the european leader in this respect. finally, i find the lack of transparency on the turin-lyon project scandalous, where for several months now many members have been asking for access to documentation on projects financed by european funds and have received negative answers. i ask the commission to give me answers.
in writing. stimulating sustainable economic growth is a priority objective to be achieved through fiscal consolidation and austerity, including the fight against fraud in all its forms. as i have also stressed in other speeches, the combination of possible policy instruments must be accompanied by the effective application of existing legislation and the effective respect of international commitments, including the anti-fraud and anti-corruption clauses. i therefore welcome the annual report, which shows that the strategy on international tax policies is not dissociated from coordinated action at eu level. the benefits of the internal market must be enhanced, including through the relentless pressure on tax fraud and evasion. the use of interconnected databases on irregularities in cohesion policy, including those in public procurement, should also be developed at the respective levels and awareness-raising should be strengthened in all institutional bodies at european, national, regional and local level. it has to change the sentiment of the general public. i also share the concerns about the expected losses in vat collection in the eu, estimated at eur 168 billion in 2013, a level that is still constant and unsustainable.
in writing. the protection of the financial interests of the union must be a priority and it is a matter which must be tackled concretely and effectively. in fact, alongside irregularities, which are a problem that must also be tackled by simplifying the rules and procedures so that they can no longer be considered as mitigating, the amount of fraud is very high. a large part of this concerns funds, but the report presented, which is critical and attentive to all issues, underlines the growing importance of vat fraud. in the absence of a single withdrawal system, the single market is in fact a backstop for so-called ' carousel ' fraud, which in 2013 already cost €168 billion. the report therefore calls on all member states to participate fully in eurofisc and to facilitate the exchange of information on it, with a view to gradually reducing the problem. the proper use of public money and the fair contribution of all citizens to the budget are of paramount importance and we will therefore continue to keep a high level of attention on this matter.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the questions we will debate today. they show that it is time to put the right conditions in place for europe to leverage the growth potential of the data-driven economy. the eu data economy is growing fast and is expected to reach at least 3% of gdp by 2020. it must become the building block for our entire economy, creating new jobs, services and business models. in the recent public consultation on platforms, the commission aimed to improve understanding of the role of data markets, access to data and the free flow of data in the european union. the commission will map existing restrictions on the free flow of data and assess emerging issues related to businesses’ access to data, the use and reuse of data, and the ownership of non-personal data. data is the new oil. standards and interoperability are its new pipelines. the commission is working on a set of priorities for standards and standardisation actions in key technology areas for the digital single market, which can guide the standardisation of organisations in their work. regarding cloud, the commission will promote the rapid adoption of cloud computing in all sectors where we are convinced that cloud can boost productivity. in order to digitise public administrations, the digital single market envisages a new e-government action plan. under the action plan, i aim at accelerating the implementation of open, innovative and collaborative government. they will support interoperability and cross-border digital public services. an effective regulatory framework on personal data protection, complemented by revised e-privacy rules plus cyber security and consumer protection, will help to build trust in the data economy. by enhancing legal certainty and providing more uniform rules, it will also help to guarantee equal conditions for businesses to compete across the european union. the specific situation of smes has been taken into account in the proposals for the general data protection regulation. the commission has been careful not to impose undue administrative burdens on them. smes will benefit from the simplified regulatory environment that the regulation provides and the one-stop shop mechanism of the national supervisory authorities. but this is not only about data. the right skills are needed to process data properly and to create new businesses. the commission has included a new skills agenda for europe in its 2016 work programme to promote skills development and maximise the potential of digital jobs. one question raised the issue of data brokerage. the commission is following closely the emergence of data markets and brokerage in europe. to assess the need for policy action, we first need a better understanding of the mechanisms for finding the right price and composition of data to be traded, as well as their effects on the data economy. particular attention will be given to transparency, accountability and non-discrimination.
the objective of restoring growth to the european economy, making it more flourishing, more competitive, can find in the data-driven economy a great opportunity. but we know very well that this will not happen automatically and spontaneously. it must be the result of a european strategy. it will not happen by miracle if things are left to their own devices. we have a lot of catching up to do, because we know that the united states is way ahead, we know that europe is not big in this big data economy. maybe it can be, but it's a long way off. we must do a great deal in terms of investment, as has been said, in terms of interoperability, so that machines and sensors and all technical accessories can communicate with each other, involvement of smes, of society for its uses, preparation of the skills, very integrated, diversified skills that are needed, all things to be done. but to do this, you also need foresight. president buzek said that europe must look ahead, be innovative but defend its values, assert them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to ensure that this information is not only used for the purposes for which it is intended, but also for the purposes for which it is intended. there are important legal and, i would even say, ethical aspects, which are also linked to the development of democracy. we have heard very worrying things about the possible combination of data and their use if there are no clear rules that do not want to limit progress and innovation, but want to safeguard, in progress and innovation, the values of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been the author of many questions, speeches and statements on the development of the internet and the use of big data to modernise the economy and public health. i have, however, also highlighted the significance of the medal: the harmful effects of wi-fi radiation, cybercrime, drug trafficking, computer fraud. i see the internet as the real challenge of universal services to ensure public services and i think for example of e-health. but this power must be well calibrated. greater protection of personal data, greater respect for the charter of fundamental rights is needed, because only defined rules generate a positive social and cultural impact and create a digital single market with a level playing field for businesses and citizens' security. i therefore join the inquiry and add that three days ago the un high commissioner for human rights, zeid ra'ad al hussein, urged the united states to proceed with great caution in the apple-fbi affair, given its potentially negative consequences for the human rights of people all over the world. what answer does the commission think it can give on this subject?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every year we try to take stock of the situation of women in europe. we are, however, aware that we are moving too slowly, because the pay gap, the obstacles to career development and the opportunities for women to make a real choice are still enormous, especially in some member states. well, our real goal as women must be to become truly free to choose: to choose to study where we want and what we want, to choose a profession because we like it, even if it is defined as male-dominated, such as entrepreneurship or computer science, to choose to have a child or not to have a child, but to be free in this choice, which should not be imposed by lack of work, precariousness or lack of childcare. politics must provide immediate answers to women, it must address the difficulties which, for example, led to the failure of the maternity leave directive, or which still allow a woman to retire today, earning on average 6% less than a man, or which prevent many of us from being able to have a working career because we are busy taking care of children, the elderly, the disabled, in the absence of a state that intervenes. so let's make this day dedicated to our dignity and our role in society not just a day to denounce the many things that are wrong but a day to build on and look to the future with hope.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every year 8 march reminds us of how much more needs to be done to improve the situation of women in the european union. there are still too many obstacles to the full affirmation of women's gender in our society and we, as legislators, are called upon to restore gender balance. in 2016, women still have to work two months longer to earn an annual salary equal to, or at least equal to, that of men. the result is a marked imbalance in pensions, leaving thousands of women alone and in poverty. in the european union, the poverty rate for older women is three times higher than that for men. ladies and gentlemen, we are doing everything we can to close this gap, and we do it every day, as do the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality in this parliament: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. but i find it absurd that only one third of european entrepreneurs are women, just as it is absurd that, over the last five years, the percentage of female employment in europe has only increased from 60% to 63%. we need more commitment from all the institutions. i welcome the work of commissioner jourová, who is fighting with us to get the istanbul convention ratified in all the countries of the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i do not think that this is a question but merely a comment made by my colleague. however, if you have heard my speech, we are also fighting every day to ensure that all countries must ratify the istanbul convention, which requires greater attention to the phenomenon of violence against women and girls throughout europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for her efforts and, of course, all the ladies who have wanted to take part in this debate. i think we cannot help but recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a day, after all, normal for too many women. it is a normal day, especially for those women who represent the future of our europe. i am referring in particular to the women refugees, who make up 60% of the total flow of refugees crossing the greek and macedonian borders. so i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of celebrating the past when the future is chosen to close the door? we are outraged by the exploitation of women and then completely ignore the trafficking of women. we fear poverty, and at the same time we choose to close our borders. and so i believe that trauma, shame, violence need a different kind of attention and that is why i would like to dedicate march 8 to them, to the women who are fleeing, to the women who are seeking that freedom that we are once again about to celebrate today. i believe in a different europe, ladies and gentlemen. i believe and work for a europe of solidarity and that is why i propose - i have already done so in a letter addressed to each of you but i am doing so again here - that you go in person to verify the conditions of exploitation, violence and oppression that affect so many women who find themselves on the macedonian border. i ask you to go and see for yourselves what is happening, to touch with your hands the 'no' that europe is chanting and to try to stop this phenomenon. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i do not agree with him at all, nor with the words he used. i think that international women's day is an important day because it celebrates the achievements of other women who have gone before us. other women before us have fought for rights that we take for granted today and yet are so important and should be remembered: i'm thinking about the right to vote, the right to a fairly paid job, the right to maternity, all those things that we take for granted today. i think that in the name of that freedom which so many of us are talking about, we must still, as you have done, acknowledge that europe, the great europe we celebrate, this old continent so important that it was once a beacon, is not doing its job properly, choosing to close its eyes to the terrible scenes we are all witnessing. the disturbing scenes of women and children huddled before a barbed wire, denied the chance to live a life worthy of the name. so i would not, my dear colleague, that after having established the day of remembrance, we should establish the day of shame, for all of us who .. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is 8 march and therefore a discussion on the socioeconomic situation of women in europe is most appropriate. despite the existence of two european directives on equal treatment in access to goods and services and on equal opportunities, there are still many gaps to be filled in order to achieve true gender equality. women in europe also suffer from a considerable socioeconomic gap, which is also confirmed in the report on the eu strategy for equality between men and women after 2015. despite the fact that work is becoming an increasingly important aspect of female identity, with a growing trend of women in employment, we still have a very low rate of women's participation in decision-making. women are underrepresented on the boards of companies and corporations, but they have not yet won the right place in politics either. the european union can no longer simply denounce it, but must take concrete action to ensure that european women are no longer discriminated against, and we hope that in the coming years we will celebrate 8 march as a new milestone, rather than as a reminder of the gaps to be filled. happy birthday to all the women.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs honeyball for her work. i regret, however, that on this international women's day we have not been able to resolve the differences that have arisen in the course of the drafting of this report. according to the latest estimates, 38% of asylum seekers in europe are women. in the light of this, i therefore appreciated that mrs honeyball included in her report all the references to a european migration policy which is sensitive to the needs of women and girls, refugees and asylum seekers who, after exhausting journeys, fleeing war and violence, arrive at the union's borders. i also welcomed the call for a humanitarian approach for the most vulnerable groups, such as pregnant women, children and the elderly, but at the same time i criticised the inclusion in the text of paragraphs referring to asylum procedures, family reunification or the very expensive requests for legal advice by refugee women. we are therefore interfering in the national immigration policies of the individual countries of the union and, above all, we are going beyond our powers, because we are the committee on women's rights and gender equality and these issues are dealt with on a daily basis by the libe committee, which is a committee that focuses on justice and civil liberties. we therefore thought that the epp should propose an alternative resolution, which would stress the need for a humanitarian approach to the migration crisis, which would take specific account of the needs of women and girls at risk of abuse and violence during this route, and which would also create a system of maximum cooperation with agencies on the ground, such as frontex and europol. i also thought i should include in the text references to the need to create reception facilities which respond to the specific needs of women, such as dormitories and toilets separated from men.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced, as citizens and as european institutions, with a challenge of epic proportions. the huge movement of refugees and asylum seekers knocking on the doors of the old continent, of which women and children are the predominant part for the first time, is not a phenomenon of the moment but an inevitable change in the demographic balance of our planet, which has many causes. they are fleeing armed conflicts in their countries of origin, persecution and gender-based violence, or human rights violations, but also climate change that has left land barren and the misuse of the planet's resources. europe is not an outside spectator but is partly responsible for these developments. and today we're gonna get our bill. in the face of this crisis, which sees women suffering in such a shocking way, we must try to do one thing first: to stay human. only through concrete solidarity, a dignified welcome, a collective awareness of all 28 member states, can we address this epochal change. there are those in europe who think that the only way to deal with this crisis is to close down, close down the borders, barricade the borders, perhaps by paying some states, like turkey, to keep the problem a little bit further away from us. we believe that there is no time to lose and that we urgently need legal ways of entering europe, more humane ways. no woman leaves her home unless it becomes a mortal danger to herself and her children. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for asking. it makes no difference if you are fleeing from a situation that causes death, and therefore fleeing from a country at war is like fleeing from a country that does not allow you to survive because there is no possibility, for example, to cultivate the land or because there are dictatorial governments. so making distinctions only creates confusion and division, which is what europe does not need.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to read a few passages to avoid being trivial on such an important subject: "be very careful not to make a woman cry because god counts her tears. the woman came out of the man's rib, not from the feet so she could be trampled, not from the head so she could be superior, but from the side so she could be equal, a little lower than the arm so she could be protected. from the side of the heart to be loved. "to me this is the sum of what one should think and do for women. less hypocrisy and more facts; less cuddly and more serious things and that muslims learn these things faster than we do.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the ideological idiocy i have heard coming from the right-wing nationalist benches today, we must know that the response to the refugee situation will be the main test to see whether the european project is alive or whether we are definitively destroying the values and principles on which the birth and evolution of the european union is based. between the mediterranean and the aegean, european dignity is dying. the failure to manage the humanitarian refugee crisis may be the germ of the cancellation of that project based on freedom of movement, solidarity, cooperation and justice. the conditions of women and children in this context are extremely vulnerable at all stages of the journey. many women who reach europe have been victims of sexual violence, trafficking and exploitation of various kinds, which causes psychological trauma, shame and stigmatization. i therefore believe that all member states should sign and ratify the istanbul convention, which requires that refugee status take into account gender issues and ensure reception conditions, support services and asylum procedures that are sensitive to specificities, as indicated in the honeyball report. today the european ruling class must show that it is capable of having a far-sighted vision, of implementing policies based on solidarity and, above all, of having a policy of welcoming, social and economic integration and defence of the most vulnerable, so that this is a moral and political obligation which they must assume with greater determination and strength.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is so much hypocrisy on the faces of women, both european and foreign. does anyone think of bringing turkey to europe, whose prime minister said that it is against nature to put women and men on the same level and whose deputy prime minister, two years ago, said that women should not laugh and provoke in public? and someone in this building, using women, thinks of bringing people like this to europe? i feel sorry for you! i feel sorry for you! people who say women can't laugh and provoke in public. what are we talking about? turkey, until it respects civil rights, is not and will never be part of civil europe, in my view. the 3 billion, give it to the unemployed europeans, not to the turkish regime that uses it to close newspapers and reopen them when it suits them. more than women's rights and refugees! we're going to italy. the figures, mr high commissioner, show that last year, out of the 80 000 refugees who applied for political asylum in italy - i say this to this house - only 5% were accepted as political refugees. - what? two thirds of the applications were rejected. since you are talking about women, i would point out that in january 2016 we received 7,000 asylum applications in italy, of which women represented less than 10% the rest, all grown men and robust and syrians, less than 30%. there are no syrian women unless someone wants to finance an uncontrolled islamic invasion of this country, of this continent. one last question: how much is she, inspector? how much does unhcr cost? how much do civil servants and employees cost? how much of the 7 billion budget actually goes to refugees and how much doesn't end up supporting people who sleep in hotels or offices? real solidarity is on the ground, not paying people to sleep in five-star hotels. a hug to italian and european women, precarious and unemployed, hungry and in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health is one of the objectives of the european union's treaties. the recent amendments to the legislation are intended to improve existing legislation by introducing a common system to improve disease prevention and to encourage the protection of animal health. in view of the remarks made by the council and the commission, i voted against the rejection amendment, thus allowing a large part of the text to be retained at first reading. the european parliament's opinion at first reading is a fair compromise, given the emphasis on the link between animal health and welfare and the prohibition of causing pain, distress or suffering to animals during health checks.
in writing. ‒ the selimovic report, presented today in parliament, outlined the new measures to combat transmissible animal diseases. animal health is a crucial issue for a sector worth 156 billion euros a year, namely livestock farming. the text of the report, which i supported with my vote, amends and repeals certain legislative acts by linking animal health and welfare to human health. the new european legislation will cover animals kept in captivity, wild animals affected by communicable diseases and the 30 million workers who come into contact with animals on a daily basis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the new rules promote the responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicines, particularly antibiotics, to help combat the growing antimicrobial resistance. the simplification of legislation is linked to the need to ensure that disease control procedures do not cause pain, stress and suffering to animals undergoing healthcare treatment.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the overly liberal implementing rules on animal welfare, which create a situation of regulatory chaos for farmers in particular and are a source of additional administrative burdens. i think, however, that every useful opportunity should be taken at community level and not to alter the most burdensome aspects of it: i therefore abstained in the vote on this proposal to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the resolution voted today is an important step forward towards a single legislative text for animal health regulation in the european union, based on the principle, which is always valid, that 'prevention is better than cure'. i welcome in this connection the fact that the text adopted today highlights in particular the link between human and animal health, stressing the role of prevention in relation to transmissible animal diseases and also emphasizing the responsible use of antibiotics in the livestock sector and particularly in livestock farming. protecting animal health is therefore our duty but also a necessity, which can benefit the well-being of all. finally, i fully share the importance of ensuring that animal care and treatment are put in place to minimise pain and suffering.
in writing. ‒ animal health is a concern. this concern arises not only from public health and food safety aspects but also from the economic costs of animal diseases. given the transmissible nature of many animal diseases, a common approach, rather than a series of individual actions, will produce overall benefits. the value of the eu's harmonised approach is widely recognised both because it has helped to reduce the administrative burden for those working in the sector and because it has played a key role in the completion of the single market by facilitating intra-eu trade in animals and products of animal origin through the establishment of harmonised animal health conditions and has contributed to the success of the cap. it is the task of the eu institutions to ensure a high level of public health and food safety by minimising the incidence of biological and chemical risks to humans, and promoting animal health by preventing/reducing the incidence of animal diseases. parliament should therefore promote animal health legislation that takes up the 2007 animal health strategy and establishes the general principles of good animal health in european union legislation. to this end, it is essential to apply uniform rules and to encourage cooperation between member states.
in writing. - i abstained. despite our opposition to the application of animal welfare rules (still cited by farmers today as a negative example of 'regulatory chaos' and a source of administrative burdens), it is undeniable how closely linked animal health and welfare are to the quality of agricultural products and, consequently, to human health. while rejecting a too 'liberal' position on the subject, we would nevertheless point out the need to take advantage of every useful opportunity, at community and national level, to change the most burdensome and impractical aspects of the treaty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the regulation in question to prevent and combat outbreaks of animal diseases such as avian influenza or african swine fever. the adoption of this animal health regulation is a major step forward. it makes three things possible. first, it links animal health and welfare to human health. this direct link, together with increased focus on responsible use of antibiotics, will help to combat the growing antimicrobial resistance. secondly, the legislation allows authorities and producers to focus more on the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. thirdly, in accordance with the principle of simplification, some 40 legal acts are combined into one single act. this new european legislation on communicable diseases should help professionals in the field to keep up with scientific progress and ensure that farmers' and veterinary organisations and animal welfare movements are involved in the preparation of emergency plans.
in writing. ‒ i believe that protecting animal health is our duty and that it can benefit the well-being of each of us. a large part of the european parliament's opinion at first reading was upheld, which allows us to support the final compromise. key references were maintained in important articles highlighting the link between animal health and welfare, and the need to guard against antimicrobial resistance in the conduct of disease prevention and control measures.
in writing. ‒ today marks the end of the legislative process leading to the adoption at second reading of the regulation on transmissible animal diseases, which is part of the wider animal health regulatory framework. for too many years veterinary medicine has over-recourse to the use of antimicrobials for preventive rather than therapeutic purposes only to prevent the spread of disease and infection in livestock. not only has such prolonged use not protected against epidemics, but it has had the side effect of developing strong antimicrobial resistance in animals and indirectly in humans as well. the approved regulation will require member states to collect relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the actual use of antimicrobials in animals and to transmit such data to the commission in order to monitor and encourage more prudent use of the medicinal products concerned in order to reduce the risk of antimicrobial resistance. i voted in favour of the resolution because it regulates an important sector for health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a concrete proposal for a constantly evolving problem. in the face of ever-new diseases, the report's first aim is to record illnesses in a clear and precise manner, in line with the opinion of efsa experts. secondly, the proposal aims to establish national prevention measures by ensuring animal safety by establishing animal welfare obligations and by increasing disease control measures, for example by restricting the movement of animals. for these reasons i voted against the rejection of this proposal. i believe it is our responsibility as members of parliament to engage in constructive dialogue with a view to improving ourselves and not to reject effective proposals such as this one a priori, denying parliament the opportunity to respond to matters of increasing importance.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution endorses the joint statement by the european parliament, the commission and the council on antimicrobial resistance and the use of veterinary medicinal products. i have decided to vote against the rejection of the text because it emphasises the role of prevention in the regulation on transmissible animal diseases ('animal health regulation') and the consequent reduction of the use of antibiotics in the treatment of animals. in addition to complying with the requirements of that regulation, member states are also required to undertake to collect relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the actual use of antimicrobials in animals and to transmit such data to the commission in a way that allows for their more prudent use and thereby contributes to reducing the risk of antimicrobial resistance. the commission, for its part, is committed to publishing a report on the use of antimicrobials in animal treatment in the eu on the basis of data obtained from the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the request to reject the recommendation for the second reading of the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on animal health legislation. parliament's position at first reading is maintained, which would include in the regulation rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans and rules governing animal welfare, given the links between animal health and welfare.
in writing. ‒ this is an important initiative that should be supported, because a new impetus is needed for animal health rules. these are fundamental and decisive rules in the prevention and control of communicable diseases and in dealing with risks to health and safety of food and feed. it is important to monitor the control pathways and responsibilities of the different actors veterinarians, breeders and farmers who play a key role in the protection of animal health, ensuring effectiveness at the different levels of surveillance. among other things, it will be essential for member states to have contingency plans for the management of certain diseases, to introduce specific rules for vaccination and consequent control measures to be taken in the event of outbreaks, suspected or confirmed, of pathogenic events. in the event of a public health emergency due to an epidemic, it is essential, as introduced by the regulation, to provide for procedures to be applied at both national and supranational level. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the animal health and welfare legislation is applied in a uniform manner.
in writing. ‒ this legislation will make two things possible: link animal health and welfare to human health and allow authorities and producers to focus more on the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. this link, together with increased attention to the responsible use of antibiotics, will help to combat the growing antimicrobial resistance. furthermore, all disease control measures should be aimed at the welfare of the animals and avoid any pain, distress or suffering to those selected for controls, including strays. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because other aspects of the question would have to be changed first.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the animal health regulation, which was approved at second reading today, is a victory. finally, a link is created between the authorities and the producers so that more attention is paid to the prevention and control of diseases such as avian influenza or swine fever. the rules informally agreed with the eu council in june 2015 streamline the matter and allow 40 legal acts to be merged into one basic act. the regulation also puts the emphasis on the responsible use of antibiotics in view of the growing antimicrobial resistance also in the animal world. this is a step forward in the fight against animal diseases.
in writing. i welcome this report which promotes animal health and is committed to protecting human health more carefully. in particular, i fully share the sense of responsibility that cannot be lacking in those who live or work with animals: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. i therefore welcome the report's call for farmers, owners and traders of animals to monitor more closely the health of their animals and to intervene more rapidly in the event of disease, especially where there is a risk of human contagion, with specific treatment and reasonable use of antibiotic therapy. a vote in favour of the adoption of biosecurity measures for our animals and for our health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health, as i believe that the agreement reached between parliament and the council today offers good legislation in the field of animal health. it is important legislation for millions of eu citizens who work with animals and concerns both wild and pet animals, given the consequences for humans of the animal communicable diseases we have seen in recent years. i am in favour of the principle of good animal husbandry, the use of humane treatment and animal health, because it is necessary to avoid unnecessary pain and suffering in the care of animals and the application of health measures. i also welcome the call for the prudent and responsible use of veterinary medicines and the obligation of transparency in the field of antibiotics, because the issue of antimicrobial resistance is of the utmost importance in the fight against animal diseases. finally, the establishment and updating of a list of diseases drawn up with the collaboration of efsa is very positive.
in writing. ‒ i do not support this document, citing the commission's statement on animal welfare that 'the regulation lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans and does not contain rules specifically governing animal welfare despite the links between animal health and animal welfare'.
in writing. ‒ the measure adopted today improves european animal health legislation by obliging breeders and all other operators in the sector to comply with the principle of good animal husbandry and all biosecurity measures for the protection of animals and human health. the obligation to use veterinary medicinal products, in particular antibiotics, prudently and responsibly will be made even stricter, and a list of diseases covered by the law will be adopted, in accordance with the guidelines expressed by parliament and the council, in accordance with the opinions expressed by experts. we know that antibiotic resistance is a growing problem, posing serious health risks to people and animals. a strategy for the prevention of animal diseases, which does not involve the massive use of antibiotics, is needed. thanks to the efforts of our group, the importance of animal welfare has also been recognized, with the prescription of health treatments that avoid pain, stress and suffering. the link between animal welfare and health is well documented by scientific studies. the measures for pets are also important, with the obligation for breeders and traders to register and the creation of animal databases.
in writing. ‒ the new animal health regulation, which incorporates and updates almost 40 acts of the previous legislation, establishes for the first time a clear link between animal health and public health. the new legislation focuses on the prevention and control of diseases that can be transmitted between animals and potentially to humans, such as avian influenza and african swine fever. it also outlines the responsibilities not only of farmers, traders and animal professionals, but also of veterinarians and pet owners, who will be required to use veterinary medicines more carefully in order to combat the growing antimicrobial resistance. i hope that these measures will be effective in protecting and safeguarding public and animal health, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the agreement at second reading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation which, among other things, provides for the obligation to avoid pain, distress and suffering to animals in carrying out disease control measures: farmed animals are sentient beings and not machines to produce meat, milk and eggs. i also welcome the fact that this regulation links animal welfare and public health at eu level. i hope that further rapid legislative steps will be taken in this direction: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is right to try to control these potential bombs with health measures, but the only really effective way is to introduce animal welfare standards that can eliminate overcrowding of farms (which makes it easy and widespread to spread infection) and to eliminate unnatural living conditions, which weaken the immune system of animals. finally, i am in favour of two other principles contained in the regulation: the need to guard against antibiotic resistance and the commitment to conserve biodiversity and valuable genetic resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text presented, which will help to improve animal health legislation by obliging all operators to respect the principles of good animal husbandry. in addition, prudent and responsible use of veterinary medicines will be ensured, with a list of regulated diseases in line with the decisions of the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the animal health report links animal health, also viewed from the perspective of safeguarding animal welfare, with human health. in order to combat the growing antimicrobial resistance in veterinary medicine, it was decided to frame the issue in the light of this direct human-animal link and to place greater emphasis on the responsible use of antibiotics. the report also calls for greater focus by national authorities and producers on the prevention and control of animal diseases. in this sense, all disease control measures should take into account the welfare of animals and avoid any kind of pain, distress or suffering to all animals subject to such measures, including those in captivity such as strays. it also provides for the responsibilities of all animal operators and professionals, who will be required to use medicinal products for animals more carefully. i would have liked the report to be more ambitious and to be more incisive on the subject of animal welfare, but i welcome the elements introduced and that is why i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the number of overweight or obese children under the age of five has increased from 31 million in 1990 to 41 million in 2014. it is therefore understandable why it is so important to teach children from an early age the value of a healthy, balanced diet. the eu has therefore decided to establish a legal and financial framework to regulate the distribution of genuine agricultural products, through the 'milk in schools' and 'fruit in schools' programmes. the new rules aim to ensure that more effort is put into not only providing children with healthier food but, above all, educating them to adopt healthier eating habits. i voted in favour because i believe that these programmes can bring considerable benefits to public health and at the same time help to grow the european agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ more than 20 million european children are now overweight. the average consumption of fruit and vegetables by adolescents is only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake. europe as a whole seems to be suffering from a decline in fruit and vegetable consumption, while the risk of diseases linked to poor diet and obesity is steadily increasing. my support for the tarabella report comes from the conviction that increasing the resources devoted to the development of good eating habits is a crucial investment in the future of the younger generation. the €250 million provided, compared with only €20 million provided so far, is a clear confirmation of the eu's commitment to food. the merger of existing school curricula on fruit and vegetables and milk will make it possible to improve the efficiency of european measures, while ensuring better use of funds. the measures adopted exclude all products containing added sugar and sweeteners and give priority to fresh and local products over processed products such as soups, compounds, fruit juices, yoghurt and cheese.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the programme for the distribution of bananas and milk in schools. although i am sceptical about the practical application of this instrument, i am convinced of the importance of the spread of food education in schools and, at a time like this, which sees a very strong crisis in the prices of the main agricultural products, this, albeit modest, financial allocation can be a positive sign. i therefore voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ the fight against childhood obesity must be a priority for the future of the european union. the revised aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools will support the education of children in good eating habits by encouraging them to consume fresh and genuine products from local and regional production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of artificial sweeteners and flavourings in foodstuffs and to strengthen the role of national health authorities in monitoring the use of artificial sweeteners and flavourings. i also welcome the increase in the funds allocated to the programme, which will enable 30 million children to benefit from free distribution, thus facilitating the development of a healthy food culture from primary school. the revision will also provide practical support for the agricultural sector, which is currently experiencing economic difficulties, by encouraging the resumption of a strong link between farmers and the local community, always with a view to respecting the seasonality of products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the introduction of a scheme to support the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools is a necessary measure to enable our children to eat healthily, regardless of the income of the family from which they come.
in writing. ‒ a healthy and correct diet cannot be achieved without an adequate use of fruit and vegetables and milk in the daily diet. food education is a value that must be taught to children and young people also in school courses: school and family are the two main educational subjects in the lives of children and adolescents. improving the rules to favour the development of local production and short-term marketing, by allowing transfers between national aid quotas in support of the programme, is certainly conducive to increasing the effectiveness and improving the coordination of the union in the field of nutrition education and the promotion of local fruit and vegetables and dairy products, which are important assets that many countries in the union can be proud of.
in writing. - i vote for it. the programme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools is confirmed (with some improvements in the criteria for the distribution of funds) and the exclusive milk allocation is slightly increased. although we remain sceptical (as in the past) about the operational application of the instrument, and we recognize the importance of the spread of food education in schools, in the face of the worst crisis in the prices of the main agricultural products, even this small financial allocation could be a positive sign.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to strengthen the school fruit and milk scheme. this is an important report on food education, for which parliament has obtained a total budget of eur 250 million. parliament ensured that european funds were distributed more equitably among the member states by setting two new basic criteria for the implementation of the entire programme: the number of children aged between 6 and 10 in the member state concerned and the degree of development of the regions within the member state, in order to ensure that the largest aid is allocated to the least developed regions. a healthy and balanced diet is the foundation of good health, but unfortunately the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is declining in the eu. support for this programme is therefore essential to counter the current decline in consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk products, especially among children, while at the same time curbing the increase in the incidence of childhood obesity due to consumption patterns oriented towards highly processed food products, which moreover often contain high doses of added sugars, salt, fat or additives.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the incidence of childhood obesity is partly due to consumption patterns oriented towards foods with high doses of added sugars, salt, fat or additives. eu aid to finance the distribution of agricultural products to children in schools will further promote healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ after almost two years of legislative work, parliament approved the agreement reached in the trilogue last december on the regulation uniting the two previous regulations establishing the 'milk in schools' and 'fruit in schools' programmes. over the years, these programmes have reached some 30 million children across europe. guiding dietary habits from childhood helps to develop a greater awareness towards balanced nutrition and to prevent obesity. although the two programmes had the same objective - the promotion of healthy eating and the increase of fruit, vegetables and milk consumption by children - they were nevertheless governed by different legal and financial frameworks which contributed to making the administrative burden on local and national authorities excessive. the new regulation aims to simplify the administrative and financial procedures provided for in the previous ones and introduces an interesting novelty for the youngest: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the farmers to make the most of the new possibilities. they will learn to make a conscious choice and to have a more direct contact with nature. i voted in favour of this regulation, sharing its purpose and the simplification it provides for wider implementation.
in writing. ‒ this report is an important response by parliament to the decline in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk, especially among children, and also to the increase in childhood obesity due to poor nutritional education. the commission proposes in this document to concentrate the distribution of these products in schools by educating children about the environment and public health with the aim of strengthening their link with agriculture. in my view, the proposal actually goes much further: in a world where industry is asking the state to steer food choices in a desirable direction, i applaud these initiatives to teach children the value of a varied and balanced diet, in line with their individual needs. there are no good foods and bad foods, but rather use and abuse, and individual needs dependent on multiple factors and within which the supply of nutrients must be diversified. i congratulate mr tarabella on his work on the trilogues.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal as it is an initiative to bring together two currently separate systems for the distribution of fruit and milk in schools.
in writing. ‒ the agreement respects the three red lines of the parliament on the legal basis. from the outset of the negotiations, the european parliament had made it clear that there would be no agreement without codecision in the following areas: the council has decided on the budget that it cannot cut funding for the two systems unilaterally in the future. as regards the criteria for allocating the budget between member states, objective criteria will apply both to the school fruit scheme and to the milk scheme, for which there are also historical criteria and a breakdown based on the minimum amount of aid per child, in order to ensure a more equitable distribution between member states. the presidency has decided to include the possibility for member states to transfer a certain percentage of funds between budgetary packages in the basic act. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is falling across europe; 22 million european children are overweight and adolescents on average eat only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. in view of these alarming statistics, i believe it is essential to encourage healthy eating habits from an early age and to bring young consumers into contact with local producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. priority will be given to local and regional production, short supply chains, organic products and quality products such as olive oil, the basis of a healthy mediterranean diet. by increasing the availability of fruit and vegetables, the regulation can help build good habits and increase children's well-being by promoting health and at the same time helping the fruit and vegetable sector. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this regulation and i hope that the school curriculum which will result from it will also be widely demanded by our italian schools.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure which will bring more funding and give new impetus to food education policies in schools. fruit, vegetables and milk are essential products for the healthy growth and development of children and should therefore be consumed more in all european schools. consuming these products at least once a day helps you live healthier and longer. in addition to being a source of vitamins, fiber, and minerals, they lower the risk of obesity and prevent the onset of certain cancers. it is therefore appropriate to train young children to include these valuable allies in their diet.
in writing. ‒ educating young people about healthy, responsible and sustainable eating, introducing sustainability, seasonality, zero km and ethical criteria in the selection of products that must be free of additives. that is why, as m5s, we are very pleased with the agreement reached in the trilogue on the dossier on the financing of the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. we are very pleased with the financial results achieved and with the affirmation of the principle that we should strive to educate young people to consume fresh products, excluding as far as possible the use of added sugars and salts, and subject to strict controls by the national authorities. education for a healthy and balanced lifestyle can undoubtedly have a positive effect on the health of young european citizens and on the sustainability of the consumer choices they make throughout their lives. for all these reasons i am voting in favour of this legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products make an effective contribution to combating childhood obesity, which is becoming an increasingly critical problem in the member states. the continuation and strengthening of the programmes covered by the report, together with the commission's decision to bring the two programmes together under a joint legal framework, contributes to making them more effective, reducing administrative burdens and improving overall results. finally, i welcome the extension of the list of products covered by the programmes which can be distributed in the member states, with a view to diversifying and enhancing local products.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report for continued support for food education in schools.
in writing. ‒ the approval of the increase of over eur 20 million to continue the european school fruit programme is an important step towards the successful continuation of the initiative to raise awareness of the consumption of fresh and seasonal fruit and vegetables for children aged 6 to 11. lifestyle as prevention proves to be effective when started at an early age. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
in writing. fruit, milk and vegetables for the re-education of the youngest children. europe is investing in children's health by taking action through economic programmes and information campaigns and promoting fresh and healthy food, encouraging new training on infant nutrition. these are the priorities set out in the report on the regulation which mr tarabella and mr de castro have brought to parliament's vote and which i strongly support. improving nutrition education means tackling the growing problem of childhood obesity and related diseases, and therefore committing ourselves to the well-being, health and future of our children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools, because i think that its renewal and extension is a tangible sign of the benefits that the eu brings to our citizens and our territories. i am proud that parliament has called for and won support for food education programmes in schools, securing an officially confirmed financial allocation of eur 250 million to support programmes that member states are called upon to implement in the near future to promote the consumption of milk and milk products and fruit among children attending primary schools. promote healthy eating patterns, referring to our traditions and supporting the fruit and vegetable and dairy business system: the school is broadening its educational horizons, educating the youngest to become responsible consumers, giving priority to safe and healthy foods from our tradition. i also think this is an important vote in that the european parliament has reaffirmed its competence in agricultural matters in the interinstitutional negotiations, strengthening its role as defender of the interests of the eu citizens.
in writing. i supported mr tarabella's report as it aims to promote the distribution and consumption of fruit and vegetables, including bananas, milk and milk products, in schools. the primary objective is to promote healthy eating habits through the consumption of local products. given that more than 20 million european children are overweight, i am convinced that this programme will help to combat this phenomenon by encouraging young people to eat more fruit and vegetables. i believe that children should be taught from an early age to eat properly and that this can only start in school. in addition, accompanying educational measures are provided to bring children back into agriculture through visits to farms and agricultural holdings. today's vote is important because it is intended to educate future generations and it is therefore vital that they follow a healthy and balanced diet through the consumption of genuine products, within a mediterranean diet and a lifestyle that includes sport and physical activity.
in writing. ‒ support the new draft law which provides for more funds to be allocated to increased consumption of milk and fruit in european schools for better food education. parliament has proposed an additional aid of eur 20 million per year to finance the distribution of dairy products and the implementation of new educational measures. the new rules will focus on programmes that educate people about healthy eating and about the products on the table. the member states participating in this aid programme will have to promote healthy eating habits, organic farming and the fight against food waste. european funds will also be distributed more equitably among the member states, with the establishment of basic criteria for the implementation of the entire programme so that the largest aid is allocated to the least developed regions.
in writing. ‒ nothing is more important than the health of our children, especially given the rising incidence of childhood obesity in europe. we must work to reverse this trend. i voted in favour of this report because i want the next generation to grow up healthy and with good eating habits.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament supports the extension of the school fruit scheme, complementing it with the milk scheme and strengthening its educational dimension. the aim is to get 30 million children across europe to learn and practice healthy eating. one in three children in europe is overweight or obese: in this context, the role of schools in prevention and food education is crucial. the programme, which is to be implemented by the member states, is aimed at children aged between six and ten years and provides for the possibility of pre-school and secondary education classes to join. the promotion of local and regional products is an integral part of the programme. the funds cannot be cut unilaterally by the member states and they provide for eur 150 million a year for fruit and vegetables and eur 100 million for milk for schools that request it. the european union is close to all its citizens, starting with the youngest.
in writing. ‒ member states are facing major social challenges today. in view of the current decline in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially among children, and the increase in the incidence of childhood obesity due to consumption patterns oriented towards highly processed foods, union aid for financing the distribution of selected agricultural products to children in educational establishments should further promote the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ educating children to a healthier lifestyle, starting with dietary habits, is one of the key tasks of our school systems, especially given the high level of childhood obesity, which is a consequence of aggressive advertising campaigns, often targeted at children, that promote the consumption of junk food. thanks to today's vote in the european parliament, 30 million children will eat and learn to eat better. the new legislation will allow free distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools throughout the school year. the clear definition of the funds will enable the member states to plan their action better. the text adopted also states that member states will have to give priority to the distribution of fresh products of local origin. for the first time, sweeteners and other artificial additives are banned altogether in school food. products containing added sugar, salt and fat are also generally prohibited and will be allowed only after explicit authorization by the national health authorities. particular attention is paid to the selection of products and their origin (local, fair and sustainable). finally, products such as honey, olives and olive oil will also be distributed occasionally, for specific educational campaigns.
in writing. ‒ in view of the sharp decline in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially among children, and the increase in the incidence of childhood obesity due to poor eating habits, i believe it is of great importance to continue and strengthen the two school programmes, the 'distributed fruit and vegetables' and the 'milk in schools' programmes. the european union's aid, which is intended to finance the distribution of selected agricultural products to children, will help to promote healthy food education and educational tools to strengthen the link with the agricultural world. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report on the distribution of certain foods in schools is based on an analysis of young europeans who do not consume the recommended amount of fruit, vegetables and milk products. in order to improve the nutrition of our children, i voted in favour of this report which proposes that school lunches be based on more fruit, vegetables and milk.
in writing. ‒ the 'fruit in schools' and 'milk in schools' programmes are two european initiatives created for the distribution of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk products in schools. the proposal for a regulation voted today will combine the two programmes to make them more effective, reduce administrative burdens and improve overall results. the report also envisages an increase of eur 20 million in annual funding for milk measures, a fairer distribution of funding among the member states that decide to participate and a wider range of eligible products. each country will be free to choose which fresh milk products and milk products to distribute, so that local and regional products are given priority. the statistics speak for themselves: more than 20 million european children are overweight and adolescents on average eat only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. i believe it is essential to raise awareness among students and teachers of the importance of a healthy and balanced diet and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal for a regulation bringing together the two existing schemes for the financing of aid for the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools, because i believe it is important to actively promote healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products, especially in the face of the widespread phenomenon of childhood obesity. the aim of the measure is to encourage the distribution of fresh, local and unprocessed fruit and vegetables in schools, in order to combat harmful eating habits linked to the consumption of processed food containing excessive doses of sugars, salt, fats and other additives. this resolution will allow for more efficient management of the two existing aid schemes by bringing them together in a single programme, which should be publicised as a european union initiative and thus make visible the commitment of the european institutions to supporting concrete action to promote the health and well-being of young school children.
in writing. ‒ a healthy diet contributes to better health, but consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is falling across the eu. member states need to do more to promote healthy eating habits, organic farming, local food chains and the fight against food waste. the school fruit, vegetables and milk programme should be strengthened, with an increased budget and a greater focus on food education. each member state should also provide for accompanying educational measures to bring children back into contact with agriculture and healthy, quality products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the merger of the 'fruit and vegetables in schools' programme and the 'milk in schools' programme. i strongly believe that promoting the consumption of fresh and natural products in schools is a priority to develop proper eating habits, in a period characterized by high levels of obesity. this text will ensure better effectiveness with a single programme in which the fruit and vegetable component and the milk component can be managed in parallel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the programme on food health education in lower secondary schools across europe. the proposal, which was strongly supported by the s&d group, provides for the allocation of a european fund which will enable schools to obtain free healthy food produced by local farms to be offered to children. each member state will have to make a regulation to this effect. i believe that by this act the european union is taking another important step towards ensuring the health of its citizens. i also find it particularly useful that the products supplied come from the local area, as a guarantee of quality and respect for the environment.
in writing. ‒ this vote by the european parliament is very important, as it invests in the health of our children. today, unfortunately, the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is reported to be falling sharply throughout the union. hence the challenge of encouraging consumption, starting in schools, also focusing on a training action on food education. it is not only right to increase the budget for this measure, but also to prohibit member states from unilaterally cutting their own budgets or changing the criteria for allocating the community funds allocated. betting on the well-being of children is very important for the future of our countries.
in writing. in a continent where 26% of adults are now overweight, we need to start in schools to educate young people on healthy, responsible and sustainable eating, a diet with as little added sugar and salt as possible. i am satisfied that the program to bring fruit and vegetables to school canteens for children between the ages of 6 and 11 meets the requirements for which i have fought. sustainability, seasonality, locality, ethical production and no additives will now be the criteria for selecting food for our children. i am pleased that educational measures have not been neglected to support the simple distribution of fresh and locally sourced products, to make students understand the advantages and benefits of a healthy and balanced lifestyle. i voted in favour of a programme which will bring italy some 16.7 million for the fruit and vegetable programmes, plus another 8 million for the milk programmes. this is almost 25 million compared to the 21.5 million in 2015. that's a great accomplishment. now that the programme is in place, we must ensure that it is implemented in the best possible way at national and local level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulatory framework which is being proposed will make it possible to counteract weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse, in order to increase the efficiency of port services. i would like to stress the concept of independent supervision, which is to provide an independent complaint mechanism. all users should be consulted and informed and should have the possibility to submit complaints to independent bodies. the italian transport system is beset by important and still unresolved structural problems due to the weakness of the regulatory and planning framework and the modesty of private partnerships in the construction of new infrastructure. it is therefore comforting to know that the regulation adopted today, even if postponed for the final vote, should bring legal certainty to ports and have a positive impact on the operation of transport networks. there is time for the final vote and i hope that we will find a way to give more attention to sustainable and green transport services, so as to contribute to better energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the union's port system consists of some 1 200 seaports, which are a key resource for the continent's economy. in addition to providing 3 million jobs, european ports provide transit for 74% of imported and exported goods and 37% of intra-eu trade. the existing framework includes considerable variations between the different member states in the organizational models of port services. the fleckenstein report, which i supported, amends the original commission proposal on market access for port services and financial transparency for ports. the proposal, which does not require the adoption of a single system for services, strengthens the principle of port authority autonomy in the organisation of services by allowing port authorities to set minimum requirements for the provision of services. i have personally been committed to focusing on the issue of training workers. in a competitive and complex sector such as ports, training of new recruits and staff is essential to ensure not only the health and safety of workers but also the quality of services and the overall competitiveness of union ports.
in writing. ‒ the commission intends to liberalise, through a regulation, eight typical sectors of port operations in accordance with principles similar to those of the services, procurement and concessions directives. i believe that such a measure would risk creating a new "bolkestein" case, would open the doors of our territories to multinationals, with a devastating impact on our local operators. for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ contributing to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by defining a framework that allows all ports to improve their efficiency and helps them to cope with changing requirements in the logistics and transport sectors is certainly in the interest of european citizens. the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract investment in ports are a central point in the proposal, which should also be seen as a condition for the implementation of fair competition between ports, on equal terms and in compliance with the community regulatory framework. the prosperity of transport infrastructure and the efficiency of european ports are important pillars for the economic development of the european union in the long term.
in writing. - i vote against the delay. accepting the referral would mean speeding up the procedure by favouring an agreement at first reading. on the substance, our opposition is clear. such a measure, which would come into force without even the member states having to incorporate it into their legislation, would be likely to have very damaging effects on the long-established local operators who have been providing certain services in our ports for decades, if not in some cases for centuries. in short, in the present silence of the media and the political parties, there is a risk of creating a new "bolkestein" case, with entire categories of professionals who would realize that their jobs are at risk only if regulations are adopted. the fact that the multinationals are now entering our reality is more than a mere hypothesis. the declared attempt to harmonize the organization of entire sectors of production in accordance with the principles of free competition is based on nothing more than the desire to centralize at european level important policy choices, such as those concerning the operation of ports. the proposal therefore remains highly controversial. it is a fact that many governments in the council have expressed various concerns.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to establish a common framework for regulating port services in europe. the categories involved are many and range from port authorities, service providers, consumers, ship owners, workers. a number of points which are important to us have been incorporated in the final text. the positive elements include the rules on staff training and social rights, financial transparency where there are public funds and state aid, the exclusion of small ports from the application of additional bureaucratic and excessive administrative burdens. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the tran committee's aim in this report is to achieve better functioning of the ten-t and thus improve the efficiency of all ports. the main objectives of this proposal are to further modernise port services and operations and to create the conditions for attracting investment in ports. that is why i voted in favour. i believe, as this report also stresses, that a prerequisite for fair competition between ports is a level playing field provided by a clear framework on state aid rules. the commission considers that the block exemption (state aid) regulation will, on the one hand, avoid additional burdens for ports already functioning well and, on the other hand, create the optimal conditions for other ports to address their structural problems. i also voted against amendment no 98 on article 10 of the regulation (social clause) because, in line with the italian ministry of infrastructure and transport, i believe that the application of this clause should be optional and that the choice of its application should be left to the member state.
in writing. ‒ considering that recent studies across europe show that very large numbers of goods pass through european ports, i.e. more than 75% of imports and exports representing more than 37% of the internal market, and that this regulation would improve market access by ensuring greater financial transparency, i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal. the drafting of the text revealed some difficulties, starting with the basic differences between the ports of the countries of northern and southern europe, which required convergence on several fronts. the document which has been drawn up has been a satisfactory compromise in order to make ports appear as a key point in the european economy where important investments can be concentrated. i would like to stress, however, that i regret that it has not been possible to clarify the question of the social clause in the text.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to establish a common framework for regulating port services in europe. the initial proposal called for the liberalization of services, which was later removed from the parliament's text, mainly due to pressure from northern european countries, such as great britain, where ports are completely privatised. the categories involved are many and range from port authorities, service providers, consumers, ship owners, workers. the chapter on the liberalization of services has been converted into a reorganization of services. the rules on training of staff and social rights, financial transparency in the case of public funds and state aid, and the exclusion of small ports from the application of additional bureaucratic and excessive administrative burdens are positive elements. my vote is in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the proposed regulation will be essential to establish legal certainty for ports and have a positive impact on the proper functioning of the ten-t network. the amendments adopted will increase the possibilities for trade negotiations between the managing body and port users, while respecting the fundamental principles of transparency. for these reasons i voted in favour of the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it is controversial and could put our country's economy at risk by liberalizing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain specific aspects of the liberalisation of port services, because i believe that the compromise reached within the parliament's committee on transport (tran) combines the need to increase the efficiency of port services, reduce costs, particularly those due to inefficiency, with the development of intra- and extra-european trade. i note with particular interest the involvement at various points in the debate of the parties directly concerned: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i welcome the work done by tran to improve the commission's original legislative proposal so that existing port management models at national level could be maintained and further developed while ensuring transparency, preventing abuse of the prices of services offered and thus market distortions, given that ports in the various countries receive public funding. finally, i fully support the introduction in the european parliament's position of minimum requirements for port service providers limited to proof of professional qualifications and compliance with the principles of maritime and environmental safety and national social standards. i therefore hope that a fruitful agreement with the council will be reached as soon as possible.
in writing. union funding for the transport sector amounts to around eur 26 billion over the period 2014-2020, focused on the trans-european networks (ten-t) network, which contains the main transport routes for passengers and businesses across europe. the proposal under consideration aims to increase the level of efficiency, interconnection and sustainability of the ten-t by modernising port services and operations, while creating the necessary conditions to attract investment in ports. i supported the proposal because i share the main objectives and content, but i would like to point out that there are different systems of port organisation within the eu area, and a substantial difference between northern and southern europe as regards the very activities for which ports are intended. it is not always easy to strike a balance between different needs, but i believe that it is also necessary to avoid rigid positions in order to allow everyone the same opportunities for investment and development.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a regulatory framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. the objective is to contribute to a more efficient and sustainable operation of the ten-t by providing a regulatory framework that makes it possible to improve the efficiency of ports in the logistics and transport sectors in order to attract investment in them.
in writing. ‒ the organisation of ports and port services is a very important issue for the european union. the objective of this report is to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by defining a framework to improve the efficiency of all ports and to help them cope with changing logistics and transport requirements. the main objectives also include the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract investment in ports. in the present regulation, the commission intends to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the reform of port services contained in this report supports the modernisation of the 329 main sea ports in the european union. following the two reforms of 2001 and 2004 which dealt with the liberalisation of the sector, the focus is on transparency, workers' rights and safety, social dialogue and environmental protection. for the first time, the reform has been endorsed by all the parties concerned: port managing bodies, operators and trade unions. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the different organisational models are protected and, at the same time, a framework is established which will increase the efficiency and strengthen the competitiveness of the maritime ports of the transeuropean transport network. the report provides that social and labour standards will not be affected by the regulation and that port workers will receive appropriate training. it also invited the committee for social dialogue in the port sector at union level to develop guidelines on training requirements to prevent accidents and ensure the highest level of safety and health of port workers. i also think that the provisions on financial transparency, complaints and the prevention of price abuse are equally positive.
in writing. ‒ the text presented in plenary amends the commission's initial proposal which envisaged making free market access the basic principle for the provision of port services. the regulation states that a single system of market access is not appropriate as the eu port system is characterised by a number of different models of organisation of port services. this will allow the current port management models established at national level to be maintained. i believe that ports should be able to decide, by agreement between the various competent bodies, how their services are to be organised. as regards the transparency of public funding to ports, i believe that public funds should be shown in a transparent manner in port budgets and that port managing bodies, which receive public funding and which provide port or dredging services on their own, should keep separate accounts for these activities or investments financed with public funds. for all these reasons, my vote on the commission proposal as amended by parliament is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation because i believe that the port sector needs to be reformed as soon as possible. the report as a whole is moving in the right direction, although i do not agree with the rapporteur's proposal for a social clause to be imposed only and exclusively on those who make calls for tenders, namely italy and a few other member states. nevertheless, i think that blocking the text in parliament would have resulted in an excessive extension of the legislative time which we simply cannot afford.
in writing. ‒ harmonisation of consumer price indices is a highly sensitive issue, as it is closely linked to the issue of inflation, which is the basis for european economic and monetary policy decisions. the improvements made are far from making these maneuvers acceptable. moreover, by including house prices and taxation, the new index will better reflect reality on the one hand, but on the other will inflate the inflation figure by making the ecb's unconventional policies appear more positive than they actually are. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) measure inflation in a harmonised way in all member states. the ecb and the commission, as provided for in article 140 tfeu, use these instruments to assess price stability in different countries and national competitiveness in the context of macroeconomic imbalance procedures. the current ipca regulation dates back to 1995 and caused quite a few problems at the time of the outbreak of the economic crisis in 2008. the widespread proliferation of corrupted and poor quality statistics, together with the development of new tools in the field of consumer price statistics, has necessitated a revision of the entire structure to ensure maximum comparability of data between different users. the gualtieri report, which i supported with my vote, made some changes to the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission. the text approved by parliament further improves the project by introducing more up-to-date and efficient legislation on statistical methodology.
in writing. ‒ this report is moving towards an excessive harmonisation of the categories of expenditure towards which the choices of consumers in economically too heterogeneous countries converge. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation, which will be published in the official journal of the european communities. for all these reasons i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ fallacy statistics and disparities in calculation between member states contributed, among many other factors, to the delay in responding to the 2008 economic crisis. the optimisation of the legislation on harmonised consumer price indices allows for a simplification of the legislation, reducing the scope for possible divergent interpretations at national level. the report aims to create a favourable environment for the effective implementation of monetary policies developed within the european framework by reducing the response times by member states for the production and dissemination of the relevant statistical data. i therefore support the amendments made, in the hope that the european union will be able to respond promptly to future macroeconomic imbalances, also thanks to more homogeneous and objective information for a fundamental area such as price stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that an update of the instruments for measuring inflation is necessary to enable policy-makers to take the most appropriate monetary policy decisions, especially in a turbulent period like the present one.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) is to measure inflation in a harmonised way in all member states. the commission and the european central bank use hicps when assessing price stability in the member states in accordance with article 140 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european parliament should support the commission proposal for a regulation establishing a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national level. the hicp provides a tool for measuring inflation which is used, inter alia, as useful information on the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates and thus forms the basis for decisions on economic and monetary policy. it is therefore essential that such statistics are objective, unbiased and comparable in all member states and for all product categories.
in writing. - i vote against it. it is an instrument which will be used to assess the competitiveness of the different member states according to criteria which, in our view, are often interpreted in an arbitrary and instrumental way by the central bank and the european commission. at a time when there is an ideological debate within the eu itself about which inflation rate should be compatible with real growth conditions, an excessive level of harmonisation of the categories that encompass the choices of consumers in member states so different and in economic conditions so opposite to each other is likely to be an exercise that leads to results that are not easily interpretable. in any case, this is a measure which deprives the member states of a substantive assessment which we think they should retain.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have given my favourable vote to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on harmonised indices of consumer prices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95, on the basis of the following considerations in my report: the quality of statistics and their comparability are a public good of fundamental importance for all union citizens, researchers and public policy makers in the union; in 2003 the governing council of the ecb decided that, in pursuit of price stability, it would aim to maintain inflation rates below but close to 2% over the medium term; that legal framework should be adapted to current needs and technical progress, including by improving the relevance and comparability of hicps, as well as by monitoring a wider set of additional indicators needed for the measurement, analysis and forecasting of inflation, which should be made available on a harmonised basis.
in writing. ‒ the changes made improve the consumer price index. however, given the link between this index and monetary policy decisions, it is reasonable to assume that the change in the inflation index will have an impact on the monetary policy decisions taken by the ecb. by including house prices and taxation the new index will better reflect reality on the one hand, but on the other will inflate the inflation figure by making the ecb's unconventional policies appear more positive than they actually are. this raised legitimate doubts that the revision of the regulation was necessary at a time when the ecb needed objective data to better justify unconventional policies and to better sponsor their policy at a difficult time when the eu bank was losing more and more credibility in a context of low growth and threatened by deflation. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) allow for an assessment of inflation in a harmonised way across all member states. these indices in particular provide information on price stability, as well as assessing national competitiveness in the context of the commission's macroeconomic imbalance procedure. the proposed regulation clarifies the scope of the hicps by ensuring that the indices are objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and for all product categories, thereby avoiding possible manipulation. the new developments in consumer price statistics have necessitated a revision of the regulation, which has been in force since 1995, in order to ensure maximum comparability of data. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because it defines an updated and uniform system of indices which are the basis for decisions on economic and monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it sets out a common legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and a house price index (hpi) at union, national and sub-national level. a uniform framework is necessary in my view to ensure that these statistics are objective, impartial and comparable in all countries and for all product categories, and thus form the basis for future decisions on economic and monetary policy. i believe that the quality of statistics, their uniformity within the european territory and therefore their comparability are a public good of fundamental importance for all eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for a regulation lays down a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national level. the hicp provides a tool for measuring inflation which is used, inter alia, as useful information on the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates and thus forms the basis for decisions on economic and monetary policy. in addition, the regulation takes account of the innovations in the union decision-making process introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which give the commission the right to adopt implementing or legislative measures that may amend non-essential elements of a regulation. i voted in favour of the report because i think that these updates are necessary and that these statistics are objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and for all product categories.
in writing. ‒ the consumer price index (cpi) provides a tool for measuring inflation and thus forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore necessary that the methods for calculating the index are objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and for all product categories. the 1995 eu hicp production and dissemination regulation should establish a uniform legal framework at union and national level for the development, production and dissemination of data. the changes made improve the consumer price index. however, given the link between this index and monetary policy decisions, it is reasonable to assume that the change in the inflation index will have an impact on the monetary policy decisions taken by the ecb. by including house prices and taxation, the new index will better reflect reality on the one hand, but on the other will inflate the inflation figure by making the ecb's unconventional policies appear more positive than they actually are. for these reasons, i preferred to vote against the motion in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution approves the regulation on harmonised consumer price indices, which aims to establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised consumer price indices and the house price index at national and union level. i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that harmonization of these indices is essential if we are to have comparable data which will make it possible to calculate the levels of inflation and other economic aspects in a uniform way in all the member states and, consequently, to adopt the appropriate economic policy measures.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation is of particular importance at one of the most complex moments in the history of central banks' management of monetary policy. in fact, the dramatic problem of deflation, which has hit japan in the last decade, seems to be affecting europe too, and many economists are beginning to believe that it may be a non-transitory phenomenon. this regulation therefore establishes a coherent legal framework for the management of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices and house prices at both european and national level. this is a decisive step forward in the harmonization of statistical studies, but it is also decisive once these data are used within the european institutions for economic policy decisions. this text also takes account of the institutional developments within the commission as they existed in the treaty of lisbon. the new framework for action by the national institutions, which must provide monthly flash estimates to compile the indices used in monetary policy, is particularly important. for this reason, the text is an important step towards better management of statistical data in the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because of the importance of the quality of statistics and their comparability for citizens, researchers and policy-makers in the union. i welcome the commission's proposal to create a uniform legal framework for the processing of data on consumer price indices. the use of uniform and comparable data is also essential for a more effective monetary policy in the euro area, as it would make it possible to respond more quickly and concretely to the different critical issues that may arise.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not think that the competitiveness of the member states is assessed by the criteria considered.
in writing. i thank my colleagues on the committee on economic and monetary affairs for this important legislative report. improving the quality of consumer price indices is a very important measure in detecting and correcting macroeconomic imbalances within the eu. indeed, there were many instances of inaccurate statistics that led to the financial crisis in 2008. the creation of a common procedure and a more integrated methodology between the different member states can certainly help in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the ep and the council on the proposal for a regulation establishing a uniform framework for the development and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at eu level, as it constitutes an important instrument for harmonising and simplifying existing legislation and also contributes to the functioning of european economic governance, particularly in the context of the surveillance procedure for macroeconomic imbalances. the ep also called for the introduction of a new system of taxation, which would be based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. this has been achieved by the introduction of the harmonised index of consumer prices for taxation (hicp-ta). the ep also strongly supported the need to introduce an obligation for euro-area countries to provide monthly snap estimates of the hicp in order to support the monetary policy of the euro-area. the regulation will be implemented through a series of delegated acts which the ec will adopt on a proposal from eurostat, taking into account the indispensable support of the ecb, where such acts imply prerogatives in monetary policy, and in compliance with the opinion of the ep. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation lays down a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at european, national and sub-national level. with reference to the hicp, it is a tool for measuring inflation and is also useful because it provides information on the deflation of wages, rents and interest rates. it is therefore essential that statistical data are reliable, unbiased and comparable in all member states. in addition to these data, timely provisional information on inflation is needed. i decided to give a favourable opinion because the current ipca regulation dates back to 1995 and it was important to revise its structure and update it accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the harmonised indices of consumer prices. the dossier, which i prepared as shadow rapporteur, contains the necessary definitions to clarify the cases described, such as 'house prices', 'price reference period' and also 'laspayres-type index'. as the ppe group we have stressed the importance of cost-effectiveness, which has been reintroduced.
in writing. ‒ for the european union to be able to conduct a unified monetary policy effectively, statistical data such as the hicp are needed. i support this report because it is a way for the eu to improve its monetary policy, supporting skills and growth.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation defines a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hipps) at union, national and sub-national level. a very relevant point is also the requirement for euro area member states to provide flash estimates on a monthly basis, and that the breakdown of flash estimates of the hicp, the owner occupied housing price index (ooh) and the ipab is adopted by means of implementing acts. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for a regulation lays down a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at union, national and sub-national level. the regulation also takes account of the innovations in eu decision-making introduced by the treaty of lisbon, giving the european commission the right to issue implementing measures (implementing acts) or legislative measures that may amend non-essential elements of a regulation (delegated acts). i voted in favour of this draft report which proposes that both the hicp and the hicp-t are broken down by the categories of the european classification of individual consumption by function (ecoicop) and calls on the euro area member states to provide estimates on a monthly basis.
in writing. ‒ the hicp, the harmonised index of consumer prices, measures changes in the prices of consumer goods and services purchased by households over time. it is essential that this index is consistently measured accurately, as it is the basis for many of the eu's monetary and economic decisions. recent developments in consumer price statistics have necessitated a revision of the 1995 regulation on which the hicp is based. i therefore voted in favour of the report because it provides for the introduction of a single simplified regulation which will improve the definition of the categories of products to be covered and the scope of the regulation, reduce the margin for interpretation of the rules, remove redundant parts of the legislation and ensure uniform treatment of groups of similar products in all member states. in addition, in order to have timely information on inflation for the purpose of implementing monetary policy, euro area member states will be asked to provide flash estimates on a monthly basis.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp), which amends the existing statistical methodology by summarising its principles in a single regulation. this index measures inflation in all member states in a harmonised way and is used by the commission and the european central bank to assess price stability in the member states. the report stresses the importance of treating certain sectors such as health, education and other specific sectors separately and autonomously, in order to reduce the interpretative space of the rules, ensuring uniform treatment of similar product categories in all member states. i also believe that it is essential for monetary policy in the euro area to have preliminary information in the form of a quick estimate in the context of the correction of macroeconomic imbalances. moreover, the hicp was designed to assess price stability and should not be understood as an index of the cost of living. in this context, i think it is appropriate to launch pilot studies on harmonised indices of the cost of living, as proposed in the report itself.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the consumer price index regulation was voted on at the last plenary session. this index provides a measure of inflation and thus forms the basis for monetary policy decisions. the regulation was from 1995 and needed to be revised. the revision has made several steps forward, both in terms of harmonisation and through the inclusion of house prices and taxation data. goods that do not cover household final consumption expenditure, such as narcotics, games, prostitution and certain types of insurance, have also been excluded from the basket. however, the timing of the review itself seems rather strange. since these changes will inevitably increase the inflation figure, this raised legitimate doubts that the revision of the regulation was necessary at a time when the ecb needed objective data to better justify unconventional policies and to better sponsor their policy at a difficult time when the eu bank was losing more and more credibility in a context of low growth and threatened by deflation. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for regulation of the harmonised price indices by the european parliament and the european council. the wrong statistical indices were partly responsible for the financial crisis of 2008. i am convinced that this legislation, which will improve and regularise the statistical methodologies for the formulation of these indices, will improve the quality of the means available to the eu to correct macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ the consumer price index provides a tool for measuring inflation and is the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore necessary that its calculation methods are objective, impartial and comparable in all member states and for all product categories. there has been some progress, both in terms of harmonisation and through the inclusion of house price and taxation data, but it is reasonable to assume that the change in the inflation index will have an impact on the monetary policy decisions taken by the ecb. the new index will better reflect reality on the one hand, but on the other it will inflate the inflation figure by making the ecb's unconventional policies appear more positive than they actually are. this raised legitimate doubts that the revision of the regulation was necessary at a time when the ecb needed objective data to justify its unconventional policies at a time of difficulty when it was losing more and more of its credibility, in a context of low growth and threatened by deflation. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in implementing the union's policies, justice must be guaranteed. that is why there are offices dedicated to combating fraud in the management of european funds. in 2014 alone, 1649 irregularities in the allocation of funds were reported, for a total of €538 million. the most critical areas are expenditure on public goods or services (public procurement) and the subject of procurement. i voted in favour of the report because it provides a clear and comprehensive picture of the various points of interest and possible improvements in the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ corruption is a serious problem affecting all member states and a factor that can undermine citizens' trust in democratic institutions and processes. the european economy suffers from substantial losses each year, estimated at around eur 120 billion, as a result of this phenomenon. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new financial instruments, in particular the financial instruments for the fight against terrorism, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new financial instruments. the jávor report, which i supported with my vote, has rightly highlighted the main challenges in protecting the financial interests of the union. the current existence of significant differences in the number of irregularities, fraudulent and non-fraudulent, reported by each state, creates a distorted picture of the real situation which prevents a clear representation of the problem. the definition and harmonisation of the framework for reporting suspected cases must therefore be a priority, to be pursued through a systematic implementation of the recommendations of the european anti-fraud office. the fight against corruption and money laundering must increasingly be seen, in an overall framework, as a key instrument to ensure the effective functioning of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses fraud and irregularities reported to the commission in 2014 and proposes measures to improve both controls and reporting by increasing prevention. although it is largely acceptable, i decided to abstain on this text because some of the proposals go in the direction of asking the states to make new concessions of sovereign prerogatives which i certainly cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the fight against fraud against the union budget must be a priority for the commission and that it is essential to implement a uniform and homogeneous system of rules which prevents and responds to fraud and minimises possible errors by users of european funds.
in writing. ‒ corruption affects all member states and costs the eu economy around €120 billion a year, as indicated in the commission's first report on eu anti-corruption policy, published in february 2014. sound public spending and the protection of the financial interests of the european union are key elements of eu policy to increase citizens' confidence in ensuring that their money is used correctly, efficiently and effectively. the european parliament must help to combat fraud and corruption which can help to finance the activities of organised crime networks or terrorism in europe, undermining citizens' trust in democratic institutions and processes. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. - the vote is closed. there are some key passages in the report which for us represent unacceptable concessions of sovereignty in the field of judicial power. however, an explicit vote against the 'fight against fraud' would expose us to instrumental attacks.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud, as i believe that stimulating sustainable economic growth is a priority objective to be achieved through a budgetary consolidation and austerity that also includes the fight against fraud in all its forms. as i have said in other speeches and as the report i am approving shows, the combination of possible policy instruments must be accompanied by the effective application of existing legislation and the effective respect of international commitments, including the anti-fraud and anti-corruption clauses. i therefore welcome the annual report, which shows that the strategy on international tax policies must not be dissociated from coordinated action at eu level. the benefits of the internal market must be enhanced, including through the relentless pressure on tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, irregularities reported amounted to approximately eur 3,24 billion and had an overall financial impact 36% higher than in 2013. the report highlights that non-fraudulent irregularities are often due to insufficient knowledge of complex rules and requirements and calls for simplification of rules and procedures. the report also highlights the estimated loss in vat collection in 2013 of eur 168 billion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the report is based on a constructively critical approach which is acceptable to all and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the data in the european commission's report clearly show that we cannot let our guard down and that the protection of financial interests and the fight against fraud must be at the heart of european policy. in 2014, member states reported 1 649 irregularities as fraud against european funds, amounting to eur 538 million. we have a clear duty to ensure that the financial resources of the european budget are used correctly. in this context, it is becoming increasingly necessary to ensure transnational coordination and to encourage member states to turn to europol, eurojust and olaf for ever-increasing cooperation. the diversity of legal and administrative systems in the member states makes it even more difficult to combat fraud and corruption, and the absence of uniform reporting principles in all member states makes it more difficult to collect comparable and accurate data. the scale of the damage caused by fraud to the financial interests of the union should also convince us of the need to resume the debate on the adoption of the pif directive and the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office in order to create a regulatory and institutional framework for the effective and coordinated protection of the financial interests of the union. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this report, which focuses on the eib's investment programme, is a clear commitment to greater transparency and accountability. the document also stresses the commission's powers and considers that the commission should take full responsibility for the recovery of amounts unduly paid by the eu. the report commits olaf to working more closely with member states to combat fraud by collecting accurate data and maintaining its strict policy on interruptions and suspensions of payments. it is important that parliament is supportive of transparency and accountability in accounting matters because it is parliament which represents those citizens whose taxes the member states use to finance the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses mainly on the eib's investment programme, but also on the detection and reporting of fraudulent irregularities. parliament notes that the total amount of irregularities reported amounts to approximately eur 3,24 billion and underlines that the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% higher than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%. i agree with the report and i vote in favour of it as it is a strengthening of the governance, transparency and control framework of the eib, supporting a shift towards more complete parliamentary accountability.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests in 2014 is presented by the commission in cooperation with the member states and describes the measures taken by the commission and the member states in the fight against fraud and the results achieved. in 2014, the total amount of irregularities reported amounts to approximately €3,24 billion and the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% higher than in 2013, while the number of such irregularities increased by 48%. all member states are invited to participate in eurofisc in all its areas of activity in order to facilitate the exchange of information in order to help combat so-called 'carousel' fraud. the level of irregularities resulting from non-compliance with public procurement rules is still high and the commission is called upon to monitor and enforce the rules, with the utmost transparency to prevent fraud. the report as a whole offers a good critical apparatus and i therefore think it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the worrying increase in fraudulent irregularities, as revealed in the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, confirms the need to complete and consolidate the legal framework and actions for the fight against fraud, which is currently lacking due to the non-adoption of the pif directive and the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. a significant weakness is found in the area of large-scale works contracts, where improvements in controls, information exchange, mechanisms to facilitate reporting and measures on the transparency of procedures are essential. the priority is to prosecute crimes and illegal activities such as smuggling, counterfeiting of goods, trafficking in human beings and other forms of illegal trade. these phenomena, as well as corruption, money laundering (which is the case in luxembourg and germany, which are the leading countries in europe) and organized crime, have acquired a disturbing transnational character and should be combated by appropriate instruments of the same level.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, although i agree with the tough fight against fraud, there are still serious doubts about the surrender of sovereignty in the judiciary.
in writing. i thank the committee on budgetary control for the important work of verification and analysis in the use of european funds: in 2014 alone, over eur 3 billion in irregularities were detected. this is a constantly growing trend: the increase in such fraud (36%) compared to 2013 (48% increase) is worrying. i agree with the report in particular on the desire to insist that the commission take very harsh measures (stop and suspension of payments) in the event of irregularities.
in writing. the commission's report entitled 'protection of the european union's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report 2014' confirmed that the total amount of irregularities reported amounts to approximately eur 3,24 billion. i believe that it is essential to take decisive action to combat as many fraudulent practices as possible. i supported mr javor's report because the fight against illicit trade and illicit financial flows must remain a top priority for the union and the member states. a greater level of cooperation between euro area countries is therefore needed in criminal investigations and the exchange of information between authorities. in addition, it is important to highlight the support of agencies such as europol, eurojust and olaf. i would like to conclude by recalling that, in this context, third countries play a key role and that the commission must therefore continue to include anti-fraud and anti-corruption provisions in all eu international agreements.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests - fight against fraud sees me in a favourable light. it is of great importance to give citizens the assurance that their tax money is being spent in a regular, transparent and consistent way. that is why sound financial management is and must remain a priority, to be monitored regularly. the diversity of legal and administrative systems is certainly an obstacle, but the problem of corruption, which affects all member states and costs billions of euros a year, must be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ fraud against the eu budget is a phenomenon that must not be tolerated. there are too many types of fraud and irregularities at different levels. it is worth investing in the fight against fraud because it is the only way to recover money that would otherwise be lost. i have expressed my support for this report because i agree that the eu must do more to recover our taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure that eu funds are protected from the risk of fraud, the commission and the member states have increased their effectiveness in combating the overall rate of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities through a series of measures. of course, eu funds must be managed properly and used as efficiently as possible. i am voting in favour of the report, given the success of the results achieved.
in writing. ‒ i believe that as european parliamentarians, and therefore as representatives of the citizens of the union, it is essential that we commit ourselves to financial transparency and regularity. in the present situation, with stagnant economic growth and populist and demagogic movements fanning the flames of anti-europeanism, we must be able to project the image of a responsible europe, one which works for the welfare of its citizens and which does not waste a single euro of the resources at its disposal. this parliament report for the year 2014 provides a clear picture of the situation and the main issues to be addressed and resolved with regard to the protection of financial interests in the european union. the increasing number of financial irregularities detected indicates that important progress is being made in the investigative field (and let me remind you of the good work done in italy by colaf in this regard). the legislative and judicial framework, however, remains very fragmented. only state authorities can investigate and prosecute fraud and other financial crimes affecting the interests of the union. and the rules that these authorities follow vary widely from state to state. the commission should therefore work towards harmonising the methodology for calculating error rates and establishing the european public prosecutor's office as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ article 325 of the lisbon treaty requires the commission to submit an annual report on the protection of the union's financial interests, indicating the measures taken to combat fraud in the use of eu funds. according to the 2014 annual report, member states will have to further step up their efforts to prevent, detect and report fraud affecting eu funds and to make greater efforts at national level to fight fraud. the annual report on the protection of the union's financial interests therefore recommends that member states review their controls to ensure that they are targeted and based on risk analysis. another positive aspect highlighted by the report is the satisfactory progress made at national level in implementing new rules and policies to strengthen the fight against fraud, and the successes achieved by olaf's investigative activities. finally, i would like to stress the importance of promoting a proper administrative culture which prevents the waste of important public resources, which should all be spent on the benefit of the european citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud. according to the report, the value of irregularities detected in 2014 amounted to eur 3,24 billion (+ 36% compared to 2013) with a 48% increase in the number of irregularities. at a time when there is a serious crisis of confidence among european citizens in the union's institutions and in their commitment to the project of european integration, action is needed on all fronts to restore and maintain that confidence. on the financial front, which this report deals with, i believe it is essential to take a stronger stance in the fight against fraud and to support the policy of the commission to protect the financial interests of the union. i believe that while the commission should strengthen its role in monitoring and supervising the implementation of the recommendations by giving full assistance to the member states, they should also commit themselves to implementing the recommendations. it is essential that member states ensure that the resources from the union budget are properly used for projects that make a real contribution to growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ the correct, effective and efficient management of the common financial resources is an absolute necessity and a clear duty for all the institutions. coordination, effectiveness and equal measures are needed across the union. member states must take the same measures to combat fraud affecting the eu's financial interests as they normally take to combat fraud affecting their own national financial interests. coordination of anti-fraud action between the eu and the different national authorities is required and measures must be able to ensure equivalent protection in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests 2014 sets out the measures taken by the commission and the member states to combat fraud and the results achieved. in 2014, the total of irregularities amounted to approximately €3.24 billion and out of a total of 16 473 irregularities, 1 649 were of a fraudulent nature, amounting to €538.2 billion. the report also points out that the level of irregularities in public procurement remains high and calls on the commission to monitor and enforce the rules, with the utmost transparency to prevent fraud. the commission has also adopted a number of amendments which i tabled on behalf of the efdd group, in particular those expressing concern about the lack of full transparency in the financing of major infrastructure projects, and i therefore invite the commission to consider a proposal to make the publication of all accounting and planning documents relating to major projects, including those relating to subcontractors, compulsory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am particularly pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of publishing all the documents relating to the project and its financing of the lyon-turin high-speed railway. that is why i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests. the objective of providing a clear and fair picture of the main challenges for the protection of the eu's financial interests against the risk of fraud has been achieved.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests in 2014, which we voted on today, is presented by the commission in cooperation with the member states and sets out the measures taken to combat fraud and the results achieved. in 2014, the total amount of irregularities reported amounts to approximately eur 3,24 billion and the overall financial impact of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2014 is 36% higher than in 2013. notes that fraud related to traditional own resources is on the rise and expresses concern about the vat gap and the estimated loss in its collection, which amounted to eur 168 billion in 2013; all member states are therefore required to participate in eurofisc in all its fields of activity. the number of fraudulent irregularities reported in the expenditure sector has increased steadily, with the number four times higher than in the previous year: the rural development sector had the worst record of fraudulent irregularities, followed by cohesion policy and public procurement. in general, the report offers a good critical apparatus and that is why i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. the report, which is presented annually by the commission and the member states, describes the measures taken by the institutions to combat fraud against the eu and shows the results achieved. in 2014, the total amount of irregularities reported amounted to approximately eur 3,24 billion, an increase of 48% compared to 2013. the report distinguishes between fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities. the commission has also received a number of complaints from third countries concerning the use of the euro in their national currencies. the sector which has recorded the highest number of fraudulent irregularities is rural development. almost 71% of irregularities reported in the field of natural resources (agriculture, rural development and fisheries) are attributable to hungary, italy, poland and romania. non-fraudulent irregularities are often due to insufficient knowledge of complex rules and requirements and simplification of those rules and procedures is seen as the way to reduce such irregularities. the resolution, for which i voted in favour, is the ep's response to the commission, with the contribution of us from the five star movement, calling for greater vigilance and action to be taken in the fight against fraud.
i too would like to thank the rapporteur for having presented this report to us and for allowing us to vote on it on 8 march. the 8th of march has a long tradition, a tradition of women's struggle for their rights. we know how far back this struggle goes, at least since olympe de gouges. i think the important thing is that we have taken another step in this direction today. i hope that, as the report calls for, we can also move towards full recognition of the rights of lgbtqi people, a recognition of full rights that unfortunately in italy is still very far from being realized. i think that this report does, however, give very clear and very definite directions in this direction too, and that is why i voted in favour of it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ gender equality between men and women is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right, a common and founding value, and an indispensable condition for achieving the european objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. gender mainstreaming is generally defined as the set of measures and policies adopted by the institutions to promote and ensure gender equality within the member states in the different areas of european competence. despite the importance of the subject, some committees are still delaying the implementation of the measures adopted in this area. for these reasons i voted in favour, hoping for further improvement in interinstitutional cooperation for the early achievement of gender equality.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mlinar report on the integration of the gender dimension in the work of the european parliament. the organisational structure of the ep currently includes several bodies dedicated to the development and implementation of gender mainstreaming at both political and working life levels. however, all these areas lack coordination capable of establishing cooperation on the basis of specific mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring the results obtained. in this context, political parties must also play a role by committing to promoting women in the recruitment, selection and appointment of candidates. the presence of numerous structural barriers in various dimensions remains a problem to be addressed in order to create a truly favourable environment for participation in decision-making at all levels. we need measures to reconcile work, private and family life, together with positive actions to ensure that there is an increase in the number of people of the underrepresented gender in positions where women or men predominate. integration is not a policy objective in itself but a fundamental means, which, combined with other specific actions and policies, can ensure the real achievement of gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the content of this report, which i find contradictory in several respects and decidedly unbalanced, and therefore did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that mainstreaming gender in the work of the european parliament is a long-term objective that must be achieved as soon as possible and that, although the situation has improved considerably, much remains to be done in this respect.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is recognised by the european union as a fundamental right, a common eu value and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. at present, the representation of women in the top positions of the european parliament is still low. the european parliament should adopt and regularly implement a policy plan for gender mainstreaming in the work of the parliament, with the overall objective of promoting equality between men and women through the effective integration of the gender perspective in policies and activities, including decision-making structures and administration. a gender-sensitive parliament can play an important role in correcting gender imbalances, facilitating equal participation for women and men and creating the conditions for the development of a policy framework for gender equality. only through cooperation between the committee on women's rights (femm) and the other committees will the integration of the gender dimension in the various policy areas be guaranteed.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report, considering that gender mainstreaming must include the rights, perspectives and well-being of lgbtiq people and people of any gender identity, calls for the establishment of a permanent rapporteur on gender mainstreaming. this person would work with the high level group to ensure that the gender mainstreaming objectives are achieved for both the secretariat and parliament's staff. the report calls on the commission to carry out a systematic gender impact assessment of any new legislative proposal or intervention on the basis of its in-depth assessment of its impact on fundamental rights, including for lgbtiq people. the committee stresses that gender-neutral language should be used in parliament's proceedings and calls for a procedure to be incorporated in the ep's rules of procedure leading to gender equality in each committee and delegation. in short, proposals which are nonsense and which i cannot help but vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to strengthen the community strategy for a more balanced representation of women in political life and in particular in the work of the european parliament. more than half of the european electorate is female. however, women continue to be largely underrepresented in positions of responsibility in all eu countries. in the european union, women represent on average 25% of national governments and parliaments. we therefore need more entrenched and effective equal opportunities policies. as regards the integration of the gender dimension in the work of the european parliament, i believe that qualitative research is needed to determine the scope and impact of gender policies on the outcomes of resolutions and legislative texts. in addition, the high level group on gender equality and diversity, responsible for adopting an action plan for the promotion of gender equality and diversity in parliament, should present a gender equality roadmap showing how to bring women's representation in senior and middle management positions to 40% by 2020.
in writing. ‒ the resolution concerns the outcome of a monitoring exercise on the implementation of measures and policies to ensure gender equality in the european parliament's legislative processes. the text stresses that there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve satisfactory objectives, but notes that only some parliamentary committees are active in this respect, while others have not yet implemented the necessary measures. finally, greater interinstitutional cooperation is needed to support gender mainstreaming and specific budget lines to support it. i agree with that position and consider it of paramount importance that the european parliament should be an example for civil society on gender equality, so i supported the resolution with my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ women's rights policy continues to be incorrectly identified with gender mainstreaming and gender policy, which is not about defending women but is part of a broader concept that seeks to integrate the gender perspective, that is, men and women, into all european and national policies. so who better than the european union to act as a stimulus, to become a model for the member states. although gender equality is recognised by the union as a fundamental right, a common value and a necessary condition for achieving development and growth objectives, it is regrettable that the principle has not been fully implemented, including at the level of the european institutions. this lack of transparency is not just a matter of fair distribution of decision-making positions; but there is also a lack of impact assessments of european policies which should better guide policy-makers in their decision-making. the report voted on today can be a useful tool to raise awareness at all levels and to guide us in our parliamentary work. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i share its underlying political objectives: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of equality bodies, which will be responsible for the implementation of the european equality strategy. the report calls on the parliamentary groups to propose in future a man and a woman as presidents of the european parties, the same groups and committees, a measure which will help to show how much the difference is not gender but personal characteristics. i believe that this document represents a clear and targeted response to the social inequalities which still plague europe today and that is why i could not but support it.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is the objective of the gender mainstreaming strategy. this strategy has two dimensions: integrate a gender perspective into the content of the various policies and address the issue of the representation of women and men in the various policy areas. both dimensions (gender representation and gender responsive content) need to be taken into account at all stages of the policy-making process. the european parliament has progressively established a structure for gender mainstreaming and i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposals to strengthen and make more effective the current structure for gender mainstreaming, including the creation of a strong interinstitutional network. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the state of play of gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. the integration of the gender dimension has a twofold dimension: integrate a gender perspective into the content of the various policies and address the issue of the representation of women and men in the various policy areas. both dimensions must be taken into account at all stages of the policy-making process. while numbers are important, it is also necessary to take into account how gender relates to the content of policy measures, to better understand how women and men would benefit. a gender responsive policy ensures that the needs of all citizens, women and men, are taken into account in the same way. however, structural gender inequalities still exist in our society. even though laws treat women and men equally, women still do not have equal access and control over resources and means. the current situation therefore demonstrates that gender responsive content of policies is an essential element of a sound gender equality strategy. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i vote against the report which is completely useless and which we have always opposed.
in writing. among the major challenges that europe is facing with economic investments and action plans, gender equality is one of the most important. the strategy for equality between women and men is a demonstration of the commission's concrete commitment to the issue. the european parliament, for its part, launched a questionnaire among the members of the network for the integration of the gender dimension. in addition to showing a desire for gender integration, even without an action plan and a concrete balance between men and women, it also highlighted some criticisms that have not yet been resolved. i therefore support the work done in this report, considering it particularly important to monitor the culture and education of integration and gender equality as a factor of economic growth and social cohesion and inclusion, which should continue to be promoted inside and outside our institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on mainstreaming gender in the work of the european parliament because it represents an important starting point for implementing a strategy to create the conditions for equality between men and women, especially in the european parliament, which is the beating heart of the european union. i am firmly convinced of the need to implement gender policies that promote and favour the female point of view in a field such as politics, which is very often difficult for women to access and partly still anchored in masculinist and discriminatory logic. the mainstreaming of the gender dimension in parliament's work aims not only to raise awareness among the public and the institutions on issues related to discrimination between men and women, but also to fully integrate women into various social spheres and particularly into political representation. i share the importance of a more integrated and shared approach with national parliaments to good practice and of looking at the national and regional level of the member states for best practices in gender mainstreaming. it is also essential to urge the european commission to define an effective and efficient regulatory framework for equality between men and women within the european institutions.
in writing. gender equality is a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. gender equality can be achieved by including the gender dimension in all political and legislative processes in parliament. the structural nature of gender inequalities must be addressed through the definition and implementation of specific measures to eliminate, prevent or remedy gender inequalities. i am aware that much remains to be done, despite the progress made in recent years, and i am confident that the european union, together with the member states, will do everything in its power to reduce and eliminate the still existing inequalities between men and women.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a fundamental principle for the european union. we must therefore show that the european parliament is also at the forefront of ensuring equal opportunities for men and women. that is why i have expressed my support for this report.
in writing. ‒ gender mainstreaming has been internationally accepted as a strategy for achieving gender equality. while numbers are important, it is also necessary to take into account how gender relates to the content of policy measures, to better understand how women and men would benefit. we all know that a gender responsive policy ensures that the needs of all citizens, women and men, are given equal consideration. i therefore vote in favour of this report because equality between women and men is a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ gender mainstreaming in eu sectoral policies is a key step towards achieving equality between men and women and towards an inclusive and sustainable society. this is a crucial dimension for the protection of human rights and the functioning of democracy. however, progress remains slow and uncertain, and the commission's assessment of the 2010-2015 strategy identifies several gaps, although there is renewed ambition for the 2016-2019 period. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that introducing a gender perspective at all stages of the political cycle is the only real action to be taken to achieve our goals of equality and cohesion, which are the founding goals of the union itself. i also believe that this is a crucial issue for the european parliament, which already has an organisational structure to promote gender mainstreaming in all its activities, but for this structure to be fully effective it needs to be strengthened through greater cooperation with the council and the commission, facilitating the work of the various bodies responsible for gender mainstreaming within the parliament itself.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right, a common value of the union and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. in the european parliament, the committee on women's rights and gender equality (femm) is the main body responsible for promoting gender equality and gender mainstreaming in all of parliament's political and legislative processes. the integration of the gender dimension has a twofold significance: integrate a gender perspective into the content of the various policies and address the issue of the representation of women and men in the various policy areas. unfortunately, once again, the text presented to the plenary is tainted by certain ideological views which prevent the adoption of a balanced report. therefore, although i continue to work for the affirmation of a real equality between men and women, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report describes the implementation of gender mainstreaming measures in the european parliament's work. gender mainstreaming is the set of measures and policies adopted to ensure gender equality between men and women in legislative processes. the resolution highlights that there is still a situation of inequality between men and women in parliament. there is still much work to be done to achieve satisfactory goals. it is clear that only some committees are more active in this area, while others have not yet implemented the necessary measures. the report calls for greater efforts between the institutions to achieve the objectives set, such as increased inter-institutional cooperation to support gender mainstreaming, as well as increased funds and specific budget lines. i therefore cannot but vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament because i believe that the institutions should be an example to follow. we are therefore calling on the commission to carry out a gender-based impact assessment when it presents a new legislative proposal. furthermore, as co-chair of the lgbti intergroup, i can only welcome the part of the text that suggests, in the context of human resource management, the development of lgbtqi-sensitive guidelines to improve well-being in the workplace. women and lgbti people are fighting the same fight to end discrimination.
in writing. ‒ on international women's day, i particularly appreciated the reports on the subject of gender: the road to full equality between men and women is still a long one and we must work every day to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. gender is not just a women's issue: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that is why i voted in favour of the report on gender work in parliament. in essence, the european institutions are asked to increase their attention to this issue by defining a legislative process that increasingly takes into account the opinion of the femm committee on equality between women and men. this change is necessary because, despite many declarations, the european union still struggles to use a gender perspective in its daily work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this report is very important and i should like to briefly explain the reasons for my vote in favour. we have had a debate in this house today which shows how serious the risks of racism and xenophobia are in this fortress europe which rejects people with walls and barbed wire and new fences. we know that we are talking about a migration phenomenon in which there is no distinction between asylum seekers, political refugees, economic migrants: we're talking about men and women who are looking for a life of dignity. that's right, ladies and gentlemen. a migration phenomenon very different from previous ones in which the prevalence of male migration was usually a very significant factor. today we see entire families, women, men, children and girls, crossing borders and risking their lives every day. this is why it is important - and this report does so adequately - to analyse and respond to this phenomenon from a gender perspective as well.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, all refugees face great difficulties and hardships, but women, often victims of gender-based violence and discrimination, are certainly the most vulnerable. the creation of safe access routes to combat illegal trafficking in human beings must be a priority in the light of recent events at europe's borders. the eu must not only commit itself to defining and expanding the cases that justify asylum applications, such as rape, forced marriages or crimes of honour, but also to setting up a system of reception and medical care, in harmony with respect for human rights. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report, confident in the power and the will of the institutions to do something to improve the plight of women refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ from the beginning of 2015 to november of that year, some 900 000 people reached europe's shores by crossing the mediterranean sea. thirty-eight percent of these were women and children. girls, fleeing conflict and persecution, represent a particular group within the large category of refugees, more exposed to the risks of early and forced marriage, sexual and physical violence and prostitution. i voted in favour of the honeyball report because i believe it effectively outlines the problems and possible responses to the difficult conditions facing women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. the report presents several measures to ensure that their specific needs are met both within reception centres and during the asylum application process. the main provisions include the creation of gender-separated sleeping areas and toilets, the presence of female staff and interpreters, counselling for gender-based violence trauma and the care of children during screening. the decision to increase information to explain to women the right to apply for asylum independently of their spouse is also particularly important for the purpose of women's empowerment.
in writing. ‒ the report is unbalanced and in some places not acceptable. that's why i didn't want to support you with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the refugee crisis crisis that is unfolding before our eyes every day, we cannot ignore the needs of some particularly vulnerable groups and the fact that they require specific protection. women asylum seekers and refugees arriving in the european union are fleeing discrimination, persecution and conflict in their home countries, forcing them to embark on a dangerous and uncertain journey. on arrival, these already vulnerable and often hard-hit women often face further abuse, violence and the risk, unfortunately not uncommon, of being trafficked, exploited and subjected to other unacceptable crimes. as stated in the report voted today, which i support, these risks should be duly taken into account in the management of reception and asylum procedures, and dealt with with due sensitivity. in reforming the union's migration and asylum policies, measures must therefore be taken to take account of the gender dimension in order to ensure the safety of women seeking asylum, many of whom are often single mothers or already severely disabled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is europe's task, understood as a system of values that puts human rights and their protection first, to create safe and legal access routes to the continent to prevent the exploitation by traffickers of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu.
in writing. ‒ women refugees are on the rise and are vulnerable at all stages of their journey in countries of origin, transit and destination. gender-based violence, as well as being an essential element in motivating people to flee, is a common feature of their journey to and within the eu. the european parliament, in a resolution of 13 april 1984, which was taken up by the subsequent conclusions and guidelines of the unhcr, was the first international body to recognise the need for a careful interpretation of gender issues for refugee status. many eu member states have adopted their own gender guidelines, but these have not been binding and have proved to be partial and uneven in their effectiveness. member states should ensure that asylum procedures at borders are in line with unhcr guidelines on international protection, in particular with regard to gender-based persecution. parliament must therefore adopt a comprehensive set of eu-wide gender guidelines, implementing a comprehensive policy reform on asylum and migration, which takes account of the social, cultural and political dimensions of persecution and also includes reception and integration measures.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report argues that the rise of far-right extremism and populism in europe puts refugee and asylum-seeking women at further risk of racist abuse, discrimination and violence. member states would be obliged to promote safe and welcoming environments for applicants for international protection and to combat all forms of discrimination. on the refugee issue, the commission should ensure that such changes take into account the situation of women, lgbti persons and other vulnerable groups, providing for specific derogations where appropriate. the commission and the member states should ensure full access to sexual and reproductive health and rights, including access to safe abortion, and additional resources need to be urgently allocated. women asylum seekers and refugees should have a greater say in the matter, and lgbti people should have more attention. i mean, there's a big lead to vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. the terrible conditions in which refugees are being received, who have been arriving at europe's doorstep in recent weeks, are plain to see. the first to suffer from this difficult situation are inexorably children and women, who represent on average one third of those who apply for asylum. women refugees and asylum seekers are the most vulnerable to all forms of violence, victims of all forms of discrimination, including sexual discrimination. europe cannot stand by or, worse, think only of erecting barbed wire walls. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include women in the labour market, and to provide support for the development of women's employment and the promotion of women's empowerment.
in writing. ‒ all refugees face great difficulties, but women and girls are more vulnerable and need special attention because they are often subject to gender-based violence and discrimination. i voted without hesitation in favour of this report which calls for the individual registration of refugee women and for specialist counselling for women victims of gender-based violence. it is also stated that rape, sexual violence, forced marriages, domestic violence, so-called honor killings authorised by a state constitute a form of persecution and must be considered grounds for seeking asylum in the eu. the report also stresses the need for a comprehensive approach to the health and reception needs of women and calls for specific measures to ensure and improve the inclusion and social integration of refugee and asylum seeker women.
in writing. ‒ the situation of refugee women is one of the most tragic issues in the serious migration crisis which is testing some of europe's founding values: i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. values that take on even greater significance when we think of refugee or migrant women: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and that the rights of women are protected. these are particularly vulnerable people with specific needs, who, in addition to taking care of their own survival, often have to take care of their children, their families. unfortunately, there are still no uniform procedures in the various member states for the proper reception of refugee women. the report therefore sets out guidelines to ensure consistent treatment of women who come to europe in the hope of finding help and protection. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on a sensitive issue such as the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu, there is unanimous agreement that it needs to be given the utmost attention. the latest figures show that 38% of asylum seekers in europe are women, and according to filippo grandi's speech in plenary, 20% of refugees are women travelling alone with their babies still in the womb. there is no doubt that the situation is dramatic and that it must be dealt with in the best possible way, first by inviting all those member states which have not yet done so to sign the istanbul convention.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the situation of women in the migration processes of refugees and asylum seekers in the european union. it highlights the violation of human rights, including gender-based violence and rape as a weapon of war. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. stresses, in particular, that more member states should participate in eu resettlement programmes; considers that legislation and policies on irregular migration should not hamper access to eu asylum procedures; stresses that the right to asylum is enshrined in article 18 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union; emphasise all women's health and care needs and requirements, including full access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. it also called for specific measures to be drawn up to ensure and improve the inclusion and social integration of refugee and asylum seeker women. it seems to me a good report, so i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution puts women refugees and asylum seekers at the centre of the agenda in order to improve their safety and protection against all forms of violence and abuse. i am voting in favour of the european parliament's position that greater attention should be paid to women and their children throughout the whole reception process, from their stay in refugee camps to border controls and, of course, after they have entered the eu. all measures and policies to improve the situation of refugees must take women into account and adequate funds must be made available to launch programmes for the greater inclusion and integration of women in the eu.
in writing. ‒ today, on the occasion of international women's day, the european parliament is paying particular attention to the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu, thanks in part to the adoption of the resolution by rapporteur honeyball on this subject. in 2015 and the first months of 2016, more than a million refugees arrived in europe. international conventions and member states' asylum policies have shown that they do not sufficiently take into account the specific position of women asylum seekers and gender aspects. i would also like to point out that many eu member states have not yet signed and ratified the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. today's resolution reminds us of the importance of eu resettlement programmes, in which all member states should participate, and reiterates that responsibility, costs and benefits must be shared among all 28 member states and not just between countries of first arrival, putting into practice the principle of european solidarity. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the plight of refugees has been in the public eye for months, but little has been done yet to help these people and to address the national dynamics that are opposing the full implementation of the commission's plan. in this context, it is important to remember that women refugees face a particular humanitarian and economic emergency that must be addressed at european and international level. a dramatic fact is that women face more obstacles to reach europe than men. in addition, a labour market which still discriminates between the sexes does not allow women to be fully integrated and, above all, reduces the possibilities of economic independence, including the support of children and elderly people in their care. finally, sexual violence has been an underestimated phenomenon in recent years and psychological and legal protection measures should be encouraged so that a system of defending women's rights can be built from the first moments of relief. i voted in favour of this text to make the european union the vanguard in defending women's rights.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it is certainly not 'right-wing populism' that is endangering women refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. i strongly support this report because i firmly believe that vulnerable people have as much and more right than others to a solid physical and social safety net. and i think that the eu has this very vocation by its very nature: the european parliament has a duty to welcome and protect those whose rights are in danger of being trampled on, those who are in danger of losing them, those who have never even seen their rights recognised. the europe of the charter of fundamental rights, of accession to the convention on the rights of the child, of the promotion of gender equality, cannot allow women refugees, fleeing violence that is inconceivable and monstrous to us, to be deprived of the guaranteed minimum measures that will allow them to feel finally safe and free to start over.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the ep resolution on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu because i believe that there is an urgent need to safeguard their psychophysical well-being and protect them from violence, abuse and any other form of exploitation. it is important to emphasize the gender aspect in the dramatic issue of asylum seekers. the un high commissioner for refugees estimates that in january this year alone, women and children accounted for 55 percent of the total number of people stranded on the balkan route through turkey. it is extremely tragic to note the conditions to which women are subjected in order to leave and continue their journey through europe, accepting as a last resort prostitution to pay traffickers and suffering all kinds of violence and discrimination. i therefore consider it a humanitarian and civic matter to ensure that women who are victims of persecution, rape, female genital mutilation and any kind of discrimination 'authorised' by their home countries are granted refugee status in the european union, while at the same time providing all the necessary information on the procedures to be followed to apply for asylum. finally, a range of issues concerning the reception and social inclusion and integration policies of refugee women in the eu need to be assessed.
in writing. ‒ today, 8 march, parliament strongly supported the resolution on women refugees and asylum seekers. responding to the refugee crisis means above all preserving the human dignity of hundreds of thousands of girls, women and children seeking international protection in our member states. women asylum seekers have specific and different protection needs than men. until now, asylum systems have largely been evaluated from a male perspective. with this important vote, we demand that gender considerations be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of our immigration and asylum policies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the procedures are being carried out, by ensuring that they are assisted by women; and especially at the stage of social inclusion and integration, by facilitating their access to education and the labour market. we also reiterated the need to provide safe and legal access routes to the european union in order to improve the safety of refugee women and discourage the smuggling of migrants.
in writing. the honeyball report is a sensitive subject which is given greater symbolism by the fact that it was voted on the day of the women's day. unfortunately, several member states have not yet signed the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention) and i find this unacceptable. despite the establishment of the common european asylum system, policy and practice in the member states continue to vary considerably. it is therefore clear that there is a gap in the protection of women seeking asylum in the eu. i therefore believe that the union has a duty to act forcefully in this area and the european parliament is and will continue to be the voice of this body with common objectives, albeit with different political positions, as is normal when talking about highly sensitive issues, such as the rights of women refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on this report. together with my political group, we recognize the humanitarian aspect and the tragedy of the thousands of migrants who see women and girls as particularly at risk on their journey to the european union. we are aware that women are often trafficked for prostitution, that many girls are fleeing countries where genital mutilation is practised or that they are fleeing from war zones where hunger and poverty are commonplace. there is no doubt that there is a need to adopt a gender perspective in the management of migration. i regret that the draft report includes references to asylum procedures in general, family reunification, reception and detention policies without focusing on the gender perspective. all these issues are outside the competence of the femm committee.
in writing. ‒ national asylum policies have historically tended to ignore the specific position of women and the gender aspects of refugee situations. in fact, in 2014, half of the world's refugee population was made up of women and girls, and unfortunately, asylum systems were largely evaluated from a male perspective. despite the establishment of the common european asylum system, the law, policy and practice in the member states continue to vary considerably and there is a clear gap in the protection granted to asylum seekers. women on the move are increasingly vulnerable at all stages of their journey in countries of origin, transit and destination. in addition to being a key factor behind women's decisions to flee, gender-based violence is a common feature of their journey to and within the eu. a new comprehensive set of gender guidelines at eu level will be appropriate as part of the wider reforms of asylum and migration policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly support the need to adopt new gender orientations on asylum and migration which should be taken into account in the design, implementation and evaluation of european policies. i also support the idea that gender violence and discrimination should be interpreted as a form of persecution and therefore a valid reason for seeking asylum in the eu. member states should ensure satisfactory and binding gender guidelines and ensure that their practices are in line with the unchr guidelines on international protection. the commission should establish a list of safe countries of origin, maintaining the principle of non-refoulement for women and girls arriving from countries with high rates of gender-based crime and violence, and ensure that they are welcomed by specialised staff to allow for the sharing of experience. it should be remembered that women are not vulnerable in themselves but are made so by the conditions in which they travel and the complications they face during transit. eu countries cannot help but keep a high profile of women's issues in dealing with the impact of refugee arrivals.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, gender-sensitive measures to ensure the safety of women seeking asylum, many of whom travel with young children and other dependants, should be part of proposals for reform of eu migration and asylum policies. the report also argues that asylum policies and procedures, including the assessment of asylum applications, should take into account gender issues, and that gender-based violence should be recognised as a valid reason for seeking asylum in the european union, to ensure that the specific needs of women are respected throughout the asylum process and in reception centres. i think that some of these measures are perfectly legitimate and acceptable, but here too the text rejected by the femm committee is marked by a certain ideological pressure, is far from reality and is full of misunderstandings. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of women in the context of the current migration crisis today: i believe that action is necessary and urgent, especially in view of the high proportion of women and children crossing the mediterranean in 2015, accounting for 35% of the total, and the sharp increase in the number of women among asylum seekers in the first months of this year. the situation of women refugees and seeking protection in europe is particularly alarming because of their vulnerability both during the dangerous journey to the countries of destination and upon arrival, for example in reception centres, as they are exposed to risks of violence and abuse, trafficking or sexual exploitation or other violent and hateful crimes. we therefore call in this resolution for the implementation of asylum policies and procedures to take into account the gender issue and the dangers faced by refugee women, by providing tools to improve the safety and protection of asylum seekers, including by opening safe and legal access routes to the european union to improve their safety and discourage the illegal trafficking of migrants.
in writing. ‒ the data on migrant women in these years of high migratory pressure are alarming. the report highlights the situation of those who are forced to emigrate and seek political asylum in europe because of war conflicts in their country. the report focuses on the violation of human rights, especially gender-based violence and mass rape, which are increasingly being used as improper weapons. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in particular, it notes that more member states should participate in eu resettlement programmes, which are not currently being undertaken by member states. we believe that legislation and policies on irregular migration should not hinder access to european asylum procedures. the report emphasizes all the needs and requirements of women in health and care, such as full access to health care and sexual and reproductive rights. it seems to me a good report, so my vote can only be in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing one of the most serious migration crises in history, we must demonstrate our firm intention to manage this phenomenon and our commitment so that the images of children and women covered in mud and in the cold are no longer seen. in this crisis we seem to forget women, who are abandoned or victims of violence, and who suffer helplessly the consequences of their forced choice to flee war and hunger. that is why i strongly supported this report, because i believe that in the context of urgently needed reform of eu migration and asylum policies, the safety of women seeking asylum, many of whom are travelling with young children and other dependants, must be guaranteed. rape, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriage and domestic violence must be recognised as valid grounds for seeking asylum in the european union. the specific needs of women should also be addressed throughout the asylum process and in reception centres by ensuring gender-segregated sleeping areas and toilets, female staff and interpreters, and childcare during screening and asylum interview.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs honeyball's resolution on women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. the report, adopted today, sends a strong message to the governments of the member states to take measures to meet the needs of women coming to our shores. in 2016 alone, 55 percent of those who reached europe by sea and sought refuge were women and children. women forced to leave their country in search of a better future in europe too often face various forms of violence. we must make 8 march much more than a useful occasion.
in writing. - this is a report that has particularly interested me. in my own city, padua, the leghista administration is actually preventing family reunification by a series of deplorable expedients such as the delay in granting citizenship to resident immigrants and the forced checks on their homes to assess, with excessively strict criteria, their habitability. the league is lagging behind, and today i received further confirmation: we have voted in favour of a text which provides for greater and specific protection for women refugees, who are a sensitive target of the wars and tragedies that are affecting so many parts of the world. women, and with them the lgbt community, are fleeing not only the widespread violence of war, but also the fear of war rape, the practice of genital mutilation, domestic violence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the return of these women should be avoided by recognising the specific nature of the problems they are experiencing and, last but not least, the practice of family reunification should be encouraged, not only for their own safety but also as a guarantee of legality and well-being in the host countries (important studies show that the presence of women reduces the aggressiveness of migrant men and creates a positive climate of integration and tolerance).
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, we are seeing some tentative signs. the truce appears, although violated several times, to be holding up overall and more and more rebel factions are joining the negotiations as well. and it is certainly very positive that the new climate of cooperation between russia and the united states, as well as, i stress, the victory of the reformists in iran, can further push towards a negotiated solution. the biggest problem is perhaps the lack of cooperation on the part of other allies of the turkish and saudi arabian factions. in fact, i do not see the turkish agenda in particular as being very much in line with our foreign policy, given the priority objective of having direct control over syrian kurdistan, which is also being pursued with intense bombing, precisely against the kurdish militias that are fighting daesh. i also see too few serious and credible efforts to stop the illegal oil trade, which is one of the main sources of income for daesh. the risk of our acquiescing to turkish demands, with a new agreement for an additional 3 billion and further concessions, including the opening of negotiating chapters, i would not like to be misunderstood as a sign of weakness, with which we seem to be giving turkey a little leverage in the management of the migration crisis which we are not succeeding in achieving at home, perhaps by passing over in silence what is happening in the south-east of turkey itself and in syrian kurdistan. i think that the two packages you mentioned earlier, lebanon and jordan, which are making considerable efforts, should be further strengthened, and above all the union's role should be even more fundamental, not only for humanitarian aid and future reconstruction but for a roadmap for a final ceasefire and a political process, which is why these our main allies must be part of the solution and not part of the problem. we must push hard in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the fragile truce in syria has created an extraordinary opportunity for the european union and that, after five very difficult years of conflict and humanitarian emergencies, the temporary freezing of violence allows for a much broader and more targeted humanitarian intervention, but also for the relaunching of a political process which must put aside, so to speak, prejudices and give the syrians the opportunity to start thinking about a future which they themselves will build. i think that the european union has been doing an extraordinary job for months at the un. now he has to prove he can handle a renewed lead role. it must therefore assume the crucial responsibility of leading a humanitarian response that is equal to the conditions it has created, while it must be stressed that the european union, with more than 5 billion euros for humanitarian assistance, is the leading regional donor, but also continue to act diplomatically to build bridges between international and regional and local actors involved in the conflict. as you rightly pointed out here, there is a strong demand for a european political presence in syria, in a context where our credibility has a specific tangible weight. these opportunities, and the hope that they will provide a boost to national peace in syria, are part of a regional context in which the european union has already shown that it can play an important role, as in the case of the iranian nuclear programme. however, what has been done so far cannot be enough. in fact, i fear that the european union is becoming more and more inward-looking, as the handling of the refugee crisis shows. we must give a real twist to the whole of european foreign policy, which, while maintaining its fundamental values, must finally take a clear direction and show consistency. if we as europeans want to play a decisive role in syria, we must be prepared to give up national egoism, the ambiguities of certain countries and start thinking big, promoting the peace process that is more indispensable today than ever.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i would like to start by saying to members very sincerely that sometimes i have the impression that it is relatively easy to sit here and highlight all the shortcomings of a situation that i described myself as being very far from being – not even perfect – but good. it is as if we were complaining that this glass is half-full. it is actually much less than half-full. the point is that two weeks ago it was empty. so our task is to try to build, drop by drop, a glass that is full and becomes a little bit fuller every day because every single drop is a life we save and every single life we save has a value, whether it is here in europe, in the aegean, inside syria, in lebanon or jordan. so my job – i do not know about yours – is not to argue about whether this is perfect or not enough. my job is to try to make it better every day with what we can put at the disposal of an international community that needs to come together – finally –because five years of war are also the result of five years of international divisions and regional clashes on syria, in syria and around syria. so i really believe that the european union’s role here is this: to try – as many of you have said – to bridge different agendas. we have so many actors here – inside syria and outside syria – that have completely different agendas. we would disagree on almost everything but as our vital interests – political and, i would say, even moral – and also our interest as europeans in security – because the longer the war lasts, the more daesh spreads – and also in the refugee crisis – i know frans timmermans is having a debate on migration after me so i will not spoil his exercise and i will leave this aspect to him – but also our interest in relation to management of the flows, but first of all our humanitarian and political interest, is to try to identify the common ground among very different agendas. these are going to stay different, but maybe we can enlarge, step by step, the common ground that allows the international community and the regional players to facilitate, rather than make it impossible, for the syrians to try to build peace instead of having five years of civil war. so war is not over. we cannot even call it a ceasefire; we call it a cessation of hostilities and we had hours of discussion about the words here, just to let you understand how sensitive these things are. so it is clear that war is still there. it is not going to disappear next week and, as i said very clearly at the beginning, things can return to being very bad at any time if we do not continue to align all the possible elements that push in the right direction, which is a very complicated job to do every single day. so what is still there? we have a cessation of hostilities. we are trying to open the spaces we have to have more and more humanitarian access, to have more and more delivery of humanitarian aid, and to have more hope for the syrians. one of you said that our task is to turn despair into hope. that is true and also to try to build bridges among the different actors, identifying common grounds – that is diplomacy and that is the european spirit. sometimes we have difficulty in doing this inside the eu; outside we still have a little bit of credibility in doing this and i will try to keep it – the inside might help, i have to say; sometimes that is not always the case. we are trying to build the road towards peace, political transition inside syria and a syrian-led and a syrian-owned future for the country. when we say syrian-led and syrian-owned, we are not referring only to the syrians who are still inside syria, but also those who have left syria because they also have to have a say in the future – and the present – of their country. so indeed, as mr preda was saying, we need to try to stick – and to push all the actors to stick – to the roadmap that we decided together, that was endorsed by a security council resolution, unanimously adopted for the first time. this is the precious result of the difficult work we have managed to build. i heard some words about the lack of unity among the europeans here. let me tell you very clearly: i chair and participate in five different formations of the european council, i take part in the european commission college every week, i am very often here in parliament – that it is quite clear and obviously you have divisions and different views – but on this the european union is not only united in words and in thoughts, but is also acting united. every single week, every three to four days, we coordinate actions, messages and we coordinate our work every day in the task forces we are in. do not portray the european union as divided even if you do not really see the division here. there are fields where we are divided – plenty of them – but at least in the fields where we act together and we think together and we are politically on the same page, let us also try to highlight the positive that we have. we should at least do this ourselves because, if we do not do it ourselves, it is difficult for others to see this. but in this field – on our actions in syria – we are indeed united and acting as europe. on three things, firstly lebanon and jordan, i agree one hundred percent – and even more – on the need to stress not only the financial support we can give them, but also the work we can do together to increase the resilience of societies and of their systems and to work together for this. i will visit lebanon and jordan in a couple of weeks’ time, 10 days, and this will be one of the elements of our common work. they sit, together with us, in the international support group. we work extremely well together with both jordan and lebanon because i believe we share the same objective, namely that of trying to find a solution to the war and for the country to move forward and find peace. one other thing that was mentioned was accountability. this is something on which we are already starting to work, in particular with the ngos that are working on the ground every single day. this is an issue which we can perhaps come back to in more detail at a later stage, either in plenary or in one of the committees. i would be glad to do so. let me finish with one element. some of you referred to the role of women, especially on this particular day. i like to do it especially on the other days too, but it true that 8 march is somehow a very significant day. when we say that the future of syria has to belong to all the citizens of syria – all the syrians inside and outside the country – we always also refer to women. when we say that we are thinking – not only thinking but trying to build a perspective – of a secular country in syria, we also refer to the fact that so many women in syria have expectations of the role they can play in their country. the work that we do with the ngos in supporting their daily work, inside and outside syria, with the syrians, is partially, but significantly, going towards the work of ngos that work on empowering women. but let me also say something that i find really sad. i am sorry to finish on a sad note. around the table of the international support group for syria, i am the only woman sitting there. this perhaps gives the european union a special role but it tells us a lot about the state of play of the role of women in international diplomacy still in such a large part of our international community – and not only in certain parts of the world but in many parts of the world, including the european union. to finish on a positive note, i will tell you that indeed, when women are not only at the table, but also in negotiating teams, as was the case for the iranian deal, i think that we sometimes have better chances to build something, maybe pragmatic, maybe, as i said at the beginning, stubborn, but that at the end of the day might work.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes a joint debate on the commission's statement on the implementation of the european agenda on migration.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still unfortunately obliged to talk about small steps forward. small steps forward and as a follow-up to the migration agenda. we are still talking about 10,000 unaccompanied children who have disappeared across europe and whose traces have been lost. we are still forced to talk about the lack of reliable data on dismantled criminal networks and i hope that the european centre for the prevention of the smuggling of migrants at europol will soon report to us on the results of their operations. we are forced to talk about an agreement with turkey to deal with the migration crisis but we cannot give in to turkish blackmail: we cannot trade the management of migration flows for turkey's accession to the european union. is turkey really a safe country? protect her basic rights? no, it is not! it 's not , but we 're forced to think it is . we want to make sure that it is, because there is a lack of will at european level to deal with the migration crisis. there are certain member states which refuse to take a united approach to the management of migration flows. so as long as there is a lack of willingness on the part of certain member states to cooperate, nothing will change. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. he absolutely finds support from our group in clarifying the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. i myself, along with other colleagues, have put questions to the european commission to try to clarify and to ask for a better protection programme for this extremely vulnerable group of people. it is unacceptable that thousands and thousands of unaccompanied minors are still disappearing into thin air without anyone claiming their protection. so we will absolutely be supportive of that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the european union is at stake in this migration crisis. on our ability to respond we will be judged by future generations. but instead, we keep talking and holding summits without ever reaching a genuine common european solution. in 2015, again, 6 out of 28 member states alone handled 80% of the asylum applications that arrived in europe. if everyone did their part, these numbers would be manageable. greece cannot and must not be left alone, nor italy and the other countries which are making the greatest efforts. externalising the borders is not a solution and our governments would not be blackmailed by turkey if they had already found common solutions based on solidarity and a holistic approach. but today we're talking about the implementation of the european agenda on migration: well, how is it that the relocations were only a few hundred, compared to the 160,000 promised? this is unacceptable delay! a few weeks ago i was in lampedusa, where people are stuck on the island for weeks, not even with shoes on their feet. they are paying for the inability of european governments to implement the decisions of the council in which they themselves sit. until a clear perspective is given to these people on the future, the whole hot spot system cannot work, because they are afraid of being caught up in the dublin hypocrisy. we need bold and ambitious reform of dublin, with a permanent redistribution mechanism and a strengthening of the asos: we expect this from the commission and we are only prepared to work on this, not on cosmetic retouching!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of today's debate, i would like to tell you about my experience as mayor of an italian city. there are refugees or illegal immigrants, as you call them, even from me, and there is no one who escapes from the war. they come from countries where there is no war. that's to say there are many situations. i would like to make a proposal, however, since there are two very important figures who are deciding the fate of europe. every country in europe has fought, with its fathers, with its grandfathers and its great-grandfathers, for its freedom. here we see many people, especially many men, fleeing the so-called war and coming to europe. so in the face of helping women and children - we'd be missing something else because it feels really fair to me - why don't we train these men quickly and send them back to their home countries so they can fight for their land and really help put things back where they belong? i mean: let's train them and send them back to their country to fight for their land and their freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on the refugee crisis many proposals have already been put forward, some of which have already been adopted by parliament and the council. other measures are being prepared and i trust in your sense of responsibility to bring forward a system of amendments to the dublin regulation which overcomes the untenable link between asylum seekers and the country of first arrival. a real response to the phenomenon of migration can only be based on the principle of solidarity, respect for human rights and the principles enshrined in international law. however, the humanitarian response is only one part of that strategy, based on a comprehensive approach which parliament has been urging for many months. without a european vision, we will be victims of an unprecedented political failure. i would like to conclude with the words of the high commissioner for refugees this morning: 'it is time to reaffirm the values on which europe was built'.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in this house, discussing the issue of immigration and the various emergencies that are before us. i hope, however, that once and for all these torrents of words which are being spoken will be matched by concrete facts. the most important of these is certainly the amendment to dublin iii, which represents the real anomaly in the european reception system. it is the only way to help greece today, italy yesterday, malta or spain tomorrow. the european commission had committed itself to presenting an amendment to dublin iii by 31 march this year. i hope that this deadline will be respected and above all that the national states in the council will be consistent in the future, unlike what has happened in the recent past.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for presenting today the new legislative proposals, for which i assure him of our commitment to tackling the migration crisis. we must make a clear distinction between refugees, who deserve international protection, and economic migrants, who we can no longer accommodate. president tusk also called last week for economic migrants to stop making the journey, because they would not be able to be accommodated or even welcomed. we must continue our diplomatic work to resolve the various crises, especially the syrian and libyan crises. we must not underestimate the intelligence that we have that there may be terrorists among the migrants using the balkan and mediterranean routes. we must therefore make the most of the specialised agencies we have, first of all europol and eurojust, and push for a real exchange of information with and between the member states to stem the phenomenon.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are about to dismiss is the result of a compromise downwards and we, as the european parliament, the only institution directly elected by the citizens, could and should have asked for more. the procedure followed to arrive at a compromise text was not the best. we in the five star movement would have called for greater transparency, for example, in relation to trilogies: it is not enough to know what has been decided ex post facto. citizens need to know what is being negotiated and by whom. enhanced citizen involvement through specific tools, for example electronic ones; maximum publicity and transparency for delegated and implementing acts too much opacity and lobbying interests surrounding these acts, see volkswagen case; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the register of delegated acts is established immediately. finally, we would have called for the establishment of a register for transparency which would be mandatory and binding for all the european institutions. i mean, we would really protect the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the signing of this interinstitutional agreement is very good news for the european union at a time of crisis when the boundaries of competence between the various institutions are shifting and are becoming increasingly blurred. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, president hübner, our shadow rapporteur, richard corbett, and the three negotiators who worked to get a positive agreement. i think this is a good deal: it makes amendments updating the previous 2003 agreement; the dialogue with social partners and small and medium-sized enterprises will be maintained and developed; their input will be given greater consideration in the legislative process; the commission will also be able to take account of the social and environmental impact of the acts, especially in the course of the procedures. the new agreement also ensures greater transparency in the negotiations and, finally, gives parliament a greater say in the annual programming, something we have been asking for a long time. in the light of all this, i feel i can say that this is a good agreement, which represents an important step towards, if not ever closer union, then certainly an ever closer institution. we expect a lot from the implementation work that will start in the institutions from tomorrow, which must be by mutual agreement. i'm asking you for a minute, mr. president. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this interinstitutional agreement and consider it a good basis for establishing and developing transparent relations between the institutions with the aim of better legislating in the interests of the citizens of the union. i am pleased that it has been decided to hold an interinstitutional exchange of views on the amendment of the legal basis of an act. it is important to use all available tools to better legislate (and therefore impact assessments, public and stakeholder consultations, analyses, specifications, etc.) in order to ensure informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making. i therefore acknowledge that the measures agreed to improve the exchange of views and information between parliament and the council as legislators are undoubtedly a step forward. however, i believe that more work is needed, particularly as regards mutual access to information and meetings, so that we can ensure a real balance and equal treatment between legislators throughout the legislative process, while ensuring that the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions is respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we asked ourselves at the beginning of this debate was 'is it better to have a glass half full or half empty?' depending on your point of view, this deal could be both. i'm afraid i agree with those who see it as half empty. it is true that there have been some advances, for example in the area of programming. there is also talk of impact assessment, but then we should actually see who will do it in the name of the commission. and as far as smes are concerned, it is clear that this is a very important issue for the movement i represent, but we would not like to see a trojan horse hidden behind the false eye of concern for legislation to reduce their bureaucratic burden, aimed at dismantling the body of rights and principles for citizens which the acquis communautaire represents and which are rather unknown to the large multinationals. we also have some criticism about the procedural aspect. the choice of a single negotiator, who has not been given a mandate by parliament on the individual issues, was not the best choice. and then we also ask for more transparency on trilogies. it is not enough to know ex post, we need them to be more in line with the spirit of the treaties. the principle of transparency and political accountability is not negotiable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in 2014 the european commission issued an implementing directive to prevent social dumping against workers temporarily posted to another member state and to expose the fraud carried out by so-called 'letterbox' companies. unfortunately, however, discussions within parliament and between member states have held back and prevented a serious assessment and solution of the problem. the directive unfortunately still leaves important vulnerabilities uncovered, as member states have too much freedom to apply or not apply the control measures and the related sanctions to punish cases of abuse that have been clearly discovered. in addition, there is unfortunately too much confidence in the ability and willingness of the member states to provide that assistance, that information to the host states to detect and punish irregularities and fraud, and, in addition, there is a lot of confusion about the principle of proportionality, and it will undermine, if not addressed correctly, the effectiveness of the directive. there are so many points to be analysed that we must work on in an extremely correct, complete and effective way this time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have at last the text of the long-awaited reform of the directive on the posting of workers, a targeted reform, as defined by commissioner thyssen, which operates on three main fronts: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency'). it is obvious that we must analyse very carefully the scope of these provisions, and in particular whether these few amendments which have been tabled are capable of actually achieving the stated objective of an effective right to equal pay for equal work at the same place, which is a fundamental objective for our group. my first impression of the heat is mixed. i am certainly glad that the commission has decided to take up the secondment directive instead of giving in to the pressure of those who, even in this house, would have preferred to wait for the results of the 2014 implementation directive, thus ignoring the seriousness of an already all too obvious problem. i am, however, sceptical that the proposed measures are sufficient in view of the scale of the problem. i am convinced that we as a parliament will be able to strengthen the text together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the commission's efforts have undoubtedly been useful. the result is very disappointing. i have no ideological objection to free movement, but i think that mobility can be an important tool in competitive models, in business systems or in individual companies. but only if there is equal pay, equal contributions and equal regulations. otherwise mobility becomes a tool for social dumping, with significant damage to competition as a whole and also, of course, to the people involved. equality, in your proposal, is not in any of these issues. we'll have to start over. and we must do so very carefully because the situation is not going to remain stable in the meantime. i want to say two very quick things about the time for stabilization: 24 months is not just a lot of time; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also like to remind all of us that the agreement between the european union and the united kingdom contains rules which alter the protection of individuals and that is also a problem we will have to deal with.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am sorry to say that we are not here. i was convinced that what was an indication and a rhetoric, as usual, from president juncker would never be put into practice. you speak of 'social triple a', as if a label were what is needed for a europe which is hungry, which is really at the end of its rope and where poverty and the risk of poverty are no longer the conditions in which millions of citizens live, but misery, absolute poverty. we cannot talk about "triple, quadruple, quintuple a social": we must talk about the problems and we must talk about the concrete solutions that the starving families need. you say that concrete proposals have been made. that's right! you know what the latest proposal is? that the european commission has today requested the amendment of the 2016 budget from italy, spain, finland, romania and belgium. why would you do that? for serious and serious deviations from the agreed austerity targets. these are the triple a's you're asking for. we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, politics must provide sensible answers to the overwhelming demand for social justice. the lack of opportunity cancels out the demand for quality of life for women, children, the elderly, the unemployed of all ages. poverty is restricting the horizon of growth and the commission is therefore called upon to give answers quickly, going beyond what is now experienced by european citizens as unnecessary and even annoying propaganda. a robust social pillar for new policies on employment, rights and opportunities and for the most vulnerable is needed without further delay. it will also help us to cope with the hostility not only of governments but also of the weaker citizens towards the new poor who are knocking forcefully at our doors, to whom we want and must give answers of civilization, democracy and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is important because it makes it clear that any attempt to reduce the european union to a purely economic dimension must be firmly rejected and that it is not possible to build a single market without a political and social europe. we must work together to achieve binding social indicators, of course in agreement with the trade unions and by strengthening the social dialogue, to combat dumping and reaffirm that fundamental rights take precedence over economic freedoms. all workers must be guaranteed the same opportunities to improve their working and living conditions, wherever they live in the european union. this is why it is urgent to define, where applicable, a minimum wage mechanism at european level, defined in agreement with the social partners, aimed at eliminating differences in treatment. i also think it is essential that the commission commits itself to tackling as soon as possible the issue of the impact of the digital single market on employment and social protection.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you for this rich debate. we've heard a lot of comments. i note that your support for achieving a social triple a is very strong, but that there is no consensus here either on what exactly is needed. but it does say that everything is needed and that we must make it work. we do have quite a few problems to deal with at the same time. we are dealing - and i hear we share that concern - with the aftermath of the crisis. we are dealing with increased poverty in europe. the crisis has increased poverty, whereas the aim was to reduce it. we are happy to see that youth unemployment is falling every month, but it is still far too high, with 4.5 million young people unemployed and unable to find work. we know that half of our unemployed are longterm unemployed. we cannot accept that either. we see our labour market becoming more and more segmented and we take that for granted without acting against it. we are trying to counter it. we also need to look at the challenges we face. we are in the aftermath of the crisis, but in the meantime the world has not stood still. we are facing long-term challenges, long-term trends in society, in the economy and in our labour markets. in society, we have to look at demographic change, at the change in family structures, at the ageing of the population. but if we look at the economy and the labor market, we see globalization, digitalization, new models of work. then we're going to be faced with new business models that we're not going to stop and that we shouldn't stop. but we must respond to this in a way that ensures that we maintain a social policy and that the people who deserve our protection, who need protection at more important moments in their lives than in the past, can also count on that assistance, on that activation. we also need to look at what is needed to combat greater inequality. we need more convergence, because we know that more inequality in society is a hindrance to economic growth and that does not help us in any way. less inequality, more convergence, upward convergence, that's what we want to go for! of course, this is not an easy matter. we must look at what is needed for equal opportunities and equal access to the labour market. we're going to have to look at our skills agenda, at the training that's needed, not just when people are young. lifelong learning, upskilling, reskilling, these are all things that need to be reviewed in the future and that we will address in our skills agenda. we also need to look at how we are going to improve social protection and social security. it is not only important that the systems be sustainable and financially viable, but also that they be adequate. they have to cover the risks we want to cover. and we also need to look at fair labor conditions. it is very clear - and this has been shown here by the various interventions - that this is not a matter which we can tackle only at european level. we also need the member states. we need to develop an idea, a vision together of where we want to go, and then implement it in mutual cooperation. it is not a matter which can and must be inspired by the minds of political leaders alone. we also need the social partners - and you have rightly pointed this out. they know the field. they can help us to refine the correct diagnosis, but they can also help us to devise the right solutions and, if we have solutions, to help implement them in concrete terms. so it's going to be a work of all of us together. we will have to do it together at different policy levels, with the social partners! i therefore invite you once again to study in depth the package of documents launched today, which explains what we mean by the european pillar of social rights. in the annex to that document we show a first sketch of what it could look like. questions are asked and suggestions made. but there are also two working documents, one with an overview of the social acquis so far, primary and secondary law, international law, soft law, and one with the financial instruments at our disposal with which we can strongly support the good things that the member states should and want to do. we need to look at all of that very carefully. the economic trends, the economic developments that are taking place, are also analysed. the package also includes a document on this subject, and i invite you, as well as the national parliaments, the governments, the social partners and the economic and social committee, to really contribute to the development of a new plan together on how we can ensure that in the future - as tom vandekendelaere and others have said here - the children and young people of today can still live together in a good way. how can we make sure that we maintain a social market economy worthy of the name? and if we can map out that social market economy and realize it, then we'll have earned our social triple a. because what is important - and i will say this again and again - is that we have to create economic growth, that we have to enable it and that we have to create it. economic growth that creates jobs, quality jobs and good social protection for people. that's what we do! not for the sake of words. it's a commitment. it is a commitment that we will have to make together with many, that we will have to fulfil together with many. first, however, we must determine exactly how we view things. the european pillar of social rights, which we have launched today, is a good reason for this. we call for a broad debate. there are those who say that there is no social europe, that no work is being done on it. well, in all the years that i have been active in europe and in this parliament, i have never seen so much preparation and so much work being done for such a wide-ranging debate on the future of our social europe. so i say, let's get to work. let's work together. let's draw that together. we will then be able to do good things for people and we will then be able to ensure that those who come after us will also find a europe here where life is good, where people have equal opportunities and where people who are a little less fortunate in their lives, who may have been a little less talented or who have already committed a stupid act, can be kept on board. that people who need social protection, at whatever stage of their life, can get it. i thank you for this debate, madam president, and i look forward to our cooperation, including on this matter.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner jourová, allow me first of all to thank the commission, the shadow rapporteurs and the latvian and luxembourg presidencies, under which the negotiations took place, for the constructive approach they took during the course of the work. it is almost a year since i was given the mandate to negotiate following the approval by the libe committee of the text of the directive we are discussing today. the work carried out during this period was inspired by the desire to create a measure which, for the first time, took into account the specific nature of the juvenile process at a supranational level, accompanied by clear guarantees for the children involved. it took nine trilogues, sometimes very difficult, and many technical meetings before a final agreement was reached, which i very much welcome and on which i hope there will be a broad consensus in this house. with over one million children subjected to criminal proceedings in europe each year, there are still significant differences between the legal systems of the member states in the treatment of children at the various stages of the proceedings. the directive seeks to bridge these gaps by defining and identifying clear rights for children who are being investigated or accused through a body of minimum standards which, however, establish a high level of safeguards. the best interests of the child were at the centre of the case, a principle also enshrined in article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is already well known in civil and administrative matters and thus enters criminal proceedings for the first time. i believe that the added value of the directive lies in the fact that it has accompanied the proceedings of minors, in addition to the fundamental safeguards provided for criminal proceedings involving adults, also those required by the specific nature of minors who must always be the recipients of specific appropriate protection. there are many aspects of the procedure covered by the directive, but i cannot dwell on them for reasons of time. i would like to refer to article 6 of the directive, which provides for the right of the child to be assisted by a lawyer. this is the most delicate issue to be dealt with in the negotiations and i must say that i am satisfied with the compromise reached in the text which describes, in an accurate manner, the situations in which the presence of the lawyer is essential to ensure that the child receives technical assistance, that all the guarantees provided for are properly applied and that he is helped to understand the course of the proceedings in which he is involved. for this reason, while providing for reasonable possibilities for derogation, in view of the lesser gravity of the offence, the less complexity of the case and the measures that could be taken as a result, the directive requires states to ensure the presence of the lawyer from the earliest stages of the investigation and in particular when the child is questioned by the judicial police and, above all, in any case where he is deprived of personal liberty. another important provision is that which requires member states to subject the child to an assessment by qualified staff in order to support decisions on possible measures for the benefit of the child, on the adequacy of any precautionary measures and in the context of sentencing. i would like to stress once again the importance of training those involved in the proceedings, starting with the police, the judiciary and the defence counsel. the directive provides that they should have access to specific training to ensure that they are able to act in the best interests of the child. finally, in view of the specific needs of the child and his or her social reintegration after the end of the criminal experience, detention is always considered as an extreme measure to be used when alternative measures are not effectively feasible. where it is unavoidable to deprive the child of his or her personal liberty, the state must do everything possible to safeguard his or her psychophysical development and his or her re-education needs. i therefore believe that one of the most significant aspects of the directive is that it establishes for the first time at european level the principle of separate detention for minors. for all these reasons, i am convinced that the directive is moving in the right direction in defining a common model of fair trial for juveniles, and also contributing to the establishment of juvenile justice in the criminal field.
member of the commission.– madam president, i thank the honourable members for this discussion. i can only summarise that this directive is indeed another important contribution to strengthening the rights of suspects and accused persons by setting common minimum standards on fair trial rights. it is true that this arrangement on common minimum standards is something which is still missing in the member states of the european union and this is why we are coming with these harmonised rules. this proposal provides for special safeguards for the most vulnerable persons, who are children. you know that recently we adopted here the directive on the presumption of innocence and, among the three recently proposed directives on procedural safeguards, only the directive on legal aid is to be adopted. what we see as the main added value of this proposal is that it introduces measures which are in the best interest of a child. it covers cases when a young person commits an act which society punishes by means of penal law; but the same society must not deprive him or her of the opportunity to start again, and this is in the best interest of society.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues for their speeches and for the many expressions of appreciation for the agreement reached, and i hope to be able to count on their support and that of their political groups. i would like to thank commissioner jourová again for her attention to the directive, for her words here today and for the technical support provided by the commission. tomorrow we will vote on a text which establishes specific rights for children who are the subject of investigations and accused in criminal proceedings, and we will vote in the knowledge that we have contributed to the creation of a european area of criminal justice. it will be a piece of legislation which, together with others already adopted, will form part of the overall architecture of procedural rights, but above all it will be a directive aimed at bridging the gaps between the legal systems of the member states, taking into account the specific nature of children and their vulnerabilities in criminal proceedings, especially if they are children in difficult situations, and stating that the rights of children must be protected in all circumstances. i would like to conclude, mr president, with a personal note. this year marks 20 years of work in the field of juvenile justice and i must therefore say that i am particularly pleased to have been rapporteur for the report on this directive, which paves the way for the establishment of a fair juvenile process in the countries of the union.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european budget is in difficulty, as are many of the budgets of european countries, especially those in the eurozone, which are being forced to endure the constraints of brussels and the blackmail of a crazy single currency. if we do not start from this basic concept, it is very difficult to try to improve the present situation. an increase in the union budget is utopian, although it is undeniable that some programmes probably need more resources. i believe, however, that there are very few programmes in which the union can be more effective than the member states in dealing with the challenges and the critical issues of the day. the juncker plan, according to the commission's triumphant announcements, was to be the example of a great european project, but it is only proving to be a different way for individual member states to decide on long-planned projects, without any added value. at this point i wonder whether it does not make sense to allow countries to use their investment capacity more freely without having to respect absurd constraints or european superstructures. the european states consider the union budget to be something foreign to them, useful only to recover funds for initiatives and spot measures, such as the juncker plan or the train of billions to be sent to erdogan, vainly hoping that this will solve the immigration issue. europe is sick and the union budget is the thermometer that certifies this disease. if you want to get better, you have to take action, completely changing your treatment and your approach.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr geier for his excellent report and i shall concentrate for a moment on a particular subject which has already been touched upon, namely the question of turkey. as the commissioner knows, we are working very hard in the committee on budgets to help the decisions taken by the commission and the council. after that, they cannot forget - and i say this to you, as vice-president of the commission, mrs georgieva - that there are still serious problems with respect to fundamental rights in that country. i think about freedom of the press and i think about civil rights issues. we must of course make a great effort to meet turkey's demands, but we cannot forget these events. secondly, i would like to say that 2017, as in 2016, 2015 and the years before, will be a year that we will devote, also in terms of budget and resources, to the issue of migrants and refugees and asylum seekers. we will do a great job of this but we can no longer consider this an emergency matter: it is a stable issue. we need to find resources that are stable within our budget.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report. i would have commented on the deal, but the deal is not there yet. and that is the sign, let me say, of a europe of governments which can no longer decide. the agreement with turkey is a necessary step to save europe and especially the thousands of syrians fleeing the war, provided that all ambiguity is avoided. those people -- and i'm thinking particularly of girls and children -- are men and women, not numbers, not commodities. i 'll make this clear: this agreement cannot be a bargain or a bargaining chip on the backs of refugees, human rights, freedom of the press and of expression; the fact that the european parliament is not negotiating and that the zaman newspaper is being closed down, and the treatment of the rapporteur of the european parliament, kati piri, are all facts which president schulz did well to stigmatize at the summit. the attitude towards the kurdish minority is a negative sign which weighs on the negotiations. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is right that the union should make a financial commitment to support syrian refugees by funding ngos for project management and not the syrian authorities. but this is not a blank check: the european union must be able to take action to help the refugees and migrants in the region. and i cannot forget greece, which is in danger of becoming a cage for refugees, a doorway without doors out. the greek people and the greek authorities must be supported by concrete action, by humanitarian aid, as the european commission is doing, and by the resettlement of tens of thousands of refugees in other member states, as already decided. when the first resettlement of refugees from greece begins, all clandestine routes will have to be closed, not only the one from macedonia but also those passing through albania and bulgaria. and then there's the root of the problem: syria, which is now the periphery of europe. what happens in that country has a huge impact on our countries. well then cease fire in syria. we are now working on a political agreement with a leading european player, federica mogherini. the refugee challenge is first and foremost a european challenge. however, we must look to the mediterranean and africa if we do not want to live in a perpetual and painful emergency. whether it is turkey, russia or any other country, we are against the transfer of european problems to other countries. it's not up to others to solve our problems. it is time for the member states to assume their responsibilities through binding decisions. we do not expect others to do what we have to do. the decline of european civilization will be halted only by recovering our moral strength, the dignity which has made us appreciated and esteemed throughout the world.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with situations which are becoming a constant feature of our debates: the migration crisis and the economic crisis. these two issues are very different in nature and dynamics but they require our attention both in urgency and in importance. we must now recognize that they are also imposed by the ineffectiveness of the solutions adopted so far. despite all our efforts to combat the economic crisis, we have not succeeded in bringing the majority of our fellow citizens to safer or more peaceful waters. the example of insufficient solidarity, especially in the method, which has been given to the greek people, cannot reassure those of our fellow citizens who are particularly weak. the migration crisis has also revealed the tools and mechanisms that the response to the financial crisis has been able to rely on. we have even seen governments, faced with numbers of migrants that are not huge, demanding the scrapping, if not the abolition, of rules that have been taken for granted by everyone and presented to the world as irrevocable achievements of the process of european unification. the results of the last council again confirm a situation of substantial paralysis: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this inability to plan ahead in the face of known problems has even put the european union in the position of being placed in an unsuitable position by a government, the turkish government, which, a few days after blatant actions contrary to the values which the union upholds, such as freedom of the press, is demanding the acceleration of the accession negotiations. it is now clear to anyone who wants to see that the governments of the european union are in a capacity stalemate in the face of the current challenges. it is up to us, as the direct representatives of our fellow citizens on issues affecting the whole of the continent, to show that it is possible to think, plan and want a different and even more effective approach to the crises that challenge us. so what do we do? first of all, recall the values. the european union has declared to the world that it wants to offer an area of freedom, justice and security. let's start from here. freedom of movement: we are aware of the efforts turkey is making to welcome syrian refugees and have already allocated considerable resources; but we cannot accept that this welcome, which is also a duty of the turkish government, should be exchanged for the continued denial of freedom of expression and of the press. this is an improper negotiation and those who want to join the european union must be clear about this distinction, in principle and in action. justice: we are in the european union, more than 500 million people. in 2015, we received 1 200 000 asylum seekers and we cannot accept that our governments are in crisis over such numbers. we have other capabilities and it is not right to accept humanitarian situations, such as those we are seeing these days on the greek-macedonian border. safety and security: to act with justice also means to distinguish and give a name to things. it is necessary to make it clear to our fellow citizens, in word and deed, who will be accepted and why, how they will be managed and integrated, who cannot be accepted forever and how this decision will be enforced. and we need clear rules that are applicable and certain throughout the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i think this curiosity was resolved a few months ago when i stood up in the chamber and said that the efdd was divided on the migration issue because, as italians, we have a different view. maybe she was absent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, in order to avoid the consequences of your grave mistakes in the matter of the great openings of this german-led europe, the solution you have found is simply indecent: to open the doors and rely on erdogan and a totally untrustworthy regime as a good blackmailer. i do not want the politically correct to censure me as well, as they do their greek colleague, who used rather strong words to describe not the turkish people - i am convinced of that - but this aggressive and arrogant policy of a turkey that blackmails europe. and so, certain terms may be not say right or acceptable but understandable. i repeat: the blackmail that originally - the newspapers don't write about it - was 20 billion, but then the ability of those who have to defend us has reduced to 6 billion, which then will become maybe 10 or 12 billion. but what good did they do? we have to go check it out. they were no use. the landings continued. and how does the turkish regime use the money that the european taxpayer gives it? it uses them to keep poor refugees in sub-human conditions, as amnesty international has denounced, in conditions not of poverty but of poor sanitation, etc. a disgrace to europe! and this from someone who has always been rather vocal against immigration: but faced with a solution like this, even those who are against immigration on principle because they see it as a challenge to our identity must agree that it's nothing but shameful! the founding fathers of europe would surely be ashamed to see such a mercenary. it's a disgrace!
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to know from my colleague what he would do if he had the chance to decide at the next meeting that will take place at european level, what main action would he take to counter what he said just now?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 more than one million people arrived in europe and more than 3 700 people died in the waters of the mediterranean, from the strait of gibraltar to the aegean sea. unfortunately, policy in this area always seems to lag behind the rapidity with which migration flows have developed and the events that have triggered them and which unfortunately continue to trigger them. we are talking about an agreement here today which, let us be honest, we do not like. we do not know the details yet, we will know after the council on 17 and 18 march, but we do not like it. it is also clear from what has been said today: the perplexities among the 28 states are many and varied. the sad feeling is that we are faced today with a step that is forced by the emergency and we have to admit that someone or something has gone wrong. because we have known a different turkey. there was a turkey that was truly a country committed to modernization. we are at the negotiating table today in a different country and i think we have made some mistakes. let me say something, though, as an italian, that i am truly sorry for. because, for some time now, it's been all about the aegean. well, the agreement between frontex and nato to patrol the aegean sea; i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. but why is there no more talk of the central mediterranean and the routes from tunisia and libya? in libya, we know that isis is there, and we know that the revenue of the traffickers is one of the biggest revenues of these terrorists. so i think we really have to get out of the logic of emergency response and the logic of short-term policy. we need to recover the capacity for a common long-term vision. only then, i am convinced, can we conclude an agreement that does not resemble a surrender. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. look, maybe i didn't understand your question. but i'm going to go back to what i said, which i think is the heart of the answer. we must find a way to be europe. the member states must get out of their nationalist logic, because we cannot have an effective response to a phenomenon and to the many phenomena we are facing. i don't know if i answered! in case we can continue this in private.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to recall some of the words that president tusk recently said to the refugees. he said that on 3 march, "don't come to europe, it's all for nothing", as if they had a choice when they flee. yesterday he said: "the days of irregular migration in europe are over". it's a fake, and tusk knows it. 91% of the people arriving in greece are fleeing wars, and you turn them all back to turkey, calling them illegal immigrants. you are accused of illegality, of refoulement by the un high commission, by the council of europe, by amnesty international... give erdogan everything, twice as much as he promised: the silence on the massacres in kurdistan and the attack on the media, as well as a safe zone in syria that erdogan will use to hit the kurds, saving al-nusra. and what will you get? the fugitives will take deadlier paths, and you will be left with your shame. i call this appeasement.
i want to underline that the blue card is only for a question, because many members utilise the blue card for a speech. the blue card comes after the speech and not before.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this divided and therefore weak europe is negotiating with turkey on conditions that are too subservient. we need an agreement to stem the tide of refugees but the problems in our home remain all the same. let us not be fooled into thinking that an external solution will relieve us of our responsibilities for reception and resettlement. the preliminary agreement seems to us to be very, very critical and too ambiguous. first of all: the idea of resuming - i say to the commission and the council, from whom i would like to see some attention paid - the asylum applications from the turkish camps is acceptable only if the procedure and the choice are guaranteed to be within the competence and under the responsibility of europe and with a role for the international organisations. secondly: it must be very clear, mr president, to the netherlands and the presidency of the council, that the agreement must not concern refugees who have already arrived in europe. we cannot accept the return to turkey of refugees who are already in greece after a hellish journey. it would be cruel and contrary to all human principles, as well as to all international conventions. it's like a children's game of goose. it's a return to the starting box. we won't accept it.
the debate is closed. before the vote, president schulz will make a statement. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. europe's failure to address and manage migration is forcing it to face blackmail from the turkish government. another 3 billion and requests to facilitate the accession negotiations with the european union represent turkey's counter-offer to contain the flow of refugees who, through its territory, reach greece and the countries of northern europe. there is little guarantee that funding for cooperation with turkey will strengthen, rather than undermine, the rights of migrants and refugees. the eu not only has the illusion that turkey can stop those fleeing war and persecution to save their lives, but is adamant about dealing with a country that has entered a spiral of authoritarianism and repression that threatens the fundamental rights of its citizens and migrants and stifles press freedom. the european union, also because of the prevalence of national selfishness in the member states, continues to have little impact at international level on the real causes of the migration problem, risking instead to renounce the principles on which it is founded and to show itself to be an accomplice of a state accused of serious violations of human rights.
in writing. ‒ sulphur is naturally present in small quantities in oil and coal. with directive 93/12/eec, the eu has tried to combat sulphur dioxide emissions, which are considered to be one of the main causes of acidification and the formation of particles harmful to human health. the procedure for codifying european law, provided for in article 103 of the regulation, allows the law to be merely codified, thus avoiding any substantial change to the text or content of the law. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal for codification, considering it essential to encourage collective action by all member states to protect the ecosystem, biodiversity and the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the ferrara report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. this is a technical measure which merely codifies existing texts without making any substantial changes. the text presented was adapted in particular to the recommendations made by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. i have decided to support the proposal, considering it useful to simplify the legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ the ferrara report, which calls for the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, is acceptable and free of criticism, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the codification of the rules on the reduction of sulphur content in certain liquid fuels will eliminate duplicates and help to simplify the legal order.
in writing. ‒ in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and the outcome of the council and commission meetings of 25 september and 14 october 2014, it is considered appropriate to approve the proposal in question, which does not envisage any substantial changes but constitutes an act of codification of existing texts.
in writing. ‒ provision of a mere codification of community legislation for the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions. voting in favour
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to codify the numerous and substantial amendments to directive 1999/32/ec on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels. such codification is essential for the purpose of clarity and rationalisation of the regulated matter, namely the maximum sulphur content allowed for heavy fuel oil, diesel oil, marine diesel oil and marine diesel oil used in the union. i voted in favour of the proposal for codification because, as confirmed by the legal service of the european parliament, the text is merely a rationalization of the legislative changes which have taken place over time without introducing any substantial arbitrary changes.
in writing. ‒ it was easy to vote in favour of this proposal as it is a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. this is a proposal which, in my view, represents an improvement in the quality of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report for the simple reason that the proposal in question is limited to a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes being made to them.
in writing. ‒ the reports concern proposals for the codification of eu law. the technical procedure provided for in article 103 of the regulation is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the sulphur content reduction of certain liquid fuels.
in writing. limiting sulphur content of acidifying pollutants emitted to the atmosphere by certain liquid fuels, such as the maximum sulphur content in marine fuels in europe, and focusing on alternative low sulphur fuels are actions with a single goal: the protection of the environment and the health of citizens in the eu. i am therefore voting in favour of the report, convinced that the union's first task is to ensure that people living in europe receive the utmost attention and protection for their well-being and health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels because i am in favour of a codification of the existing texts which ensures legal certainty and ease of understanding. i believe that the commission's decision to require the codification of those legislative texts which have undergone numerous and significant changes over the years since their first adoption is in the right direction with regard to the clarity and transparency of eu law. directive 1999/32/ec setting maximum sulphur levels for heavy fuel oil, diesel oil, marine diesel oil and marine diesel oil used in the union is an important piece of eu environmental legislation: i am therefore in favour of its being codified, given all the changes that have taken place since then.
in writing. sulphur dioxide emissions contribute to the problem of soil acidification, with direct effects on human health and the environment. sulphur, which is found in small quantities in oil and coal, has been identified as the main source of sulphur dioxide emissions. the latter is one of the major causes of 'acid rain' which, in addition to affecting human health, can cause significant damage to buildings and architectural heritage, as well as to agriculture, precisely as a result of acidification of the soil. i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i share the objective of gradually reducing sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels in order to reduce the harmful effects on public health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal to reduce the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. the report, which aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by setting maximum sulphur levels for heavy fuel oil and diesel fuels such as heating oil and light diesel used by ships, is a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ considering it useful to codify the existing texts on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, i am voting in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. ‒ this report consolidates the existing directive 1999/32/ec on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels without making substantial changes. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always played a key role in facilitating access to essential medicines for developing countries through innovative trade policies. providing medicines to countries which are already suffering from serious economic problems is certainly a key objective. the proposal to codify existing legislation on this subject, in accordance with article 103 of the regulation, categorically prohibits any substantial amendment of the rules which might affect their meaning or scope. i therefore voted in favour of codification, since making the rules clear and uniform will undoubtedly make it possible to achieve the objectives proposed more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ferrara report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union. the purpose of the measure is to codify existing legislation without making substantial changes. i believe that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the legal framework is properly applied and that the legal basis is properly applied.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs ferrara on the diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union is balanced and acceptable, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the codification of the rules on diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union will eliminate duplicates and help to simplify the legal order.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, and having regard to the outcome of the meetings of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission which met on 10 july 2014 to examine, inter alia, the proposal in question submitted by the commission, the adoption of this proposal is considered to be appropriate as it does not contain any substantive amendments to the regulation but only codification adjustments.
in writing. ‒ provision of mere codification of community legislation separating trade in certain essential medicines in the eu and developing countries. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report expressing parliament's agreement to the codification proposed by the commission on the diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union. the community framework in this area has been subject to numerous amendments since 2003. the codification in a single text is therefore essential for the purpose of rationalizing and clarifying the provisions.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for recoding existing texts on essential medicines allows for greater codification order and thus improved regulatory consultation without, on the other hand, any substantial changes. that is why it was easy to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report for the simple reason that the proposal in question is limited to a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes being made to them.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical procedure provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report to avoid the diversion of certain essential medicines to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union because i am in favour of a codification of the existing texts which guarantees legal certainty and ease of understanding. i believe that the commission's decision to require the codification of those legislative texts which have undergone numerous and significant changes over the years since their first adoption is in the right direction with regard to the clarity and transparency of eu law. council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 to ensure that developing countries can obtain medicines against communicable diseases at graduated prices and to prevent such low-cost medicines from ending up on the european market is an important piece of eu legislation on medicines: i am therefore in favour of its being codified, given all the changes that have taken place since then.
in writing. ‒ considering that the codification of the existing texts on the diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union is appropriate, i am voting in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. ‒ this report consolidates the existing regulation (ec) no 953/2003 to avoid diversion of certain essential medicines to the european union without making substantial changes. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the issue of fiscal and financial cooperation is relevant from the point of view of compliance with tax obligations at international level. the european union and the principality of andorra have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, which should lead to an improvement in the current situation. nevertheless, the agreement still contains regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the principality of andorra and the european union signed, on 12 february 2016, an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes to bring their relations into line with the new eu legal framework and the new standards set by the oecd in 2014. as early as 2004, the two entities had concluded an agreement providing for the application by the principality of measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the viegas report, which i supported with my vote, effectively underlines the main objective of the agreement: improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. it will ensure the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts held by residents, thereby countering attempts to conceal funds through tax evasion. the agreement is undoubtedly a positive element in the union's strategy to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between andorra and the european community on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes represents an improvement in international cooperation in the fight against tax evasion, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the fight against tax evasion is a priority for the european union and i believe that the eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes is an important step in the right direction by making the work of the authorities easier.
in writing. ‒ on 12 february 2016, the european union and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and improves on the 2004 agreement which ensured that andorra applied measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the european parliament should support the agreement, which aims to ensure that andorra applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework as updated in december 2014 and complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. the agreement will also benefit andorra, which has recently reformed its national tax system by introducing a personal income tax.
in writing. ‒ on 12 february 2016, the european union and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. similar to what was done in the last session for san marino. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra, as i believe that the agreement signed on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i have spoken on this subject on several occasions and i believe that cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations are of paramount importance for the development of a healthy european economy, and in particular for the banking union. the automatic exchange of information between the eu member states and andorra on financial accounts held in their territories by their respective residents is an effective tool to combat taxpayers seeking to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the report expresses the european parliament's agreement to the international agreement whereby the eu and the principality of andorra commit to an automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents in order to step up efforts to combat fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. the principality of andorra, together with other neighbouring countries such as switzerland, lichtenstein, san marino and monaco, is one of the countries most vulnerable to european tax evasion. although the conclusion of an agreement on the exchange of financial information is to be considered as a necessary instrument for the purpose of combating fraud, the final text resulting from the negotiations between the eu and andorra is highly unsatisfactory. there are still many loopholes in the rules which can be easily overcome and a more comprehensive agreement could have been reached. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement is designed to ensure that andorra applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework. as a result of this agreement, the tax administrations of the member states and andorra will be able to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax legislation in cross-border situations, to assess the likelihood of tax evasion, and to avoid further unnecessary investigations. i am always of the opinion that the burden of public service should be reduced from the shoulders of citizens and businesses, but at the same time i do not accept that those who evade competition unfairly compete with those who contribute to the financing of public services in a country.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this proposal because, as a result of the new agreement between the eu and andorra, the tax administrations of each other will be able to apply and enforce their own tax legislation in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion and avoid further unnecessary investigations. this agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and to improve the 2004 agreement which ensured that andorra applied measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this is the fourth of a package of five agreements, covering switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, andorra and monaco. although these agreements bring improvements over the status quo, they are still far from resolving in practice most of the existing problems with all these countries. under the agreement, the eu and the principality of andorra will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, thereby stepping up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which they consider to be among the most sensitive areas in the eu. the text is unsatisfactory, incomplete and lacking in depth, as it still leaves several loopholes in the rules which can be easily overcome. that is why i abstained during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the protocol represents an important step forward in the eu and the principality of andorra's efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. i am pleased that the agreement has been brought into line with the global standards of the eu and the osce and that, in the case of information exchange, rules are applied in favour of the principle of transparency. i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe it will bring mutual benefits to both parties concerned, in particular the ability to enforce tax laws in cross-border situations and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the eu-andorra agreement to ensure greater cooperation in the field of community taxation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, because i strongly support the improvements made by the new agreement. the agreement is intended to ensure that andorra applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework as updated in december 2014 and complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of information concerning financial accounts promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. andorra, for its part, has reformed its national tax system by introducing a tax on resident income. the agreement is in line with the oecd standard, the additional provisions of the agreement aim to ensure that the information exchanged covers not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the new agreement also provides for the unconditional exchange of information on request, in line with the latest developments in oecd and eu work in this area.
in writing. on 12 february 2016, the european union and andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. i have decided to vote in favour of mr viegas' report because it aims to combat tax evasion and fraud by means of stricter monitoring of financial accounts held by residents. the commission will also consider the possibility of extending the scope of the measure to include the territory of andorra, which is not covered by the 2014 oecd standard. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and the commission on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the competent authorities of the member states on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the commission on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the commission on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the commission on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the commission on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the commission on the exchange of information between the competent authorities of andorra and the commission.
in writing. ‒ cooperation on financial matters with andorra is a step in the right direction. this deal is certainly in the interest of our taxpayers. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-andorra agreement signed on 12 february 2016 to combat tax evasion and fraud is a significant step forward. to that end, the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts held in their respective territories allows the correct identification of the persons concerned, avoiding further investigation. i welcome the strengthening of discipline and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of andorra, in order to ensure compliance with international tax obligations, have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts of their respective residents. the aim of this agreement, which will officially enter into force as of 2017, is to address the situation where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion. i voted in favour of approving this agreement because it represents a further step forward in the fight against fraud and tax evasion at european level.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions continue their work to promote transparency, coordination and cooperation of tax systems between member states and small 'tax havens' in the european union. the project of fairer and more transparent taxation is gradually moving in the right direction, despite a thousand obstacles, thanks in part to the oecd guidelines.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the principality of andorra will exchange automatically tax information to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. i have decided to support the conclusion of the agreement as it represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. from 2017, the eu and the principality of andorra will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, with the aim of addressing situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the agreement, which has been brought into line with global oecd standards, also ensures that the information exchanged will cover not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and income from financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, which aims to improve cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the agreement ensures that andorra applies measures equivalent to those contained in the eu savings tax directive, in accordance with the oecd procedures for the automatic exchange of financial account information. under the new agreement, as of 2018 and for information collected as of 1 january 2017, eu member states and andorra will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held in their territories by their respective residents, to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. i would like to stress that the agreement approved today is part of the wider context of cooperation between the eu and certain third countries in the field of taxation, in line with the oecd-g20 guidelines, in which parliament is constantly working towards greater transparency and fairness.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of andorra signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. this is the fourth of a package of five agreements, covering switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, andorra and monaco. although these agreements bring improvements over the status quo, they are still far from resolving in practice most of the existing problems with all these countries. on the basis of this agreement, the eu and the principality of andorra will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, in order to step up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which the principality is seen as one of the most sensitive countries in these respects. i think this text is unsatisfactory because a more complete and thorough agreement could and should have been sought without leaving any easily circumvented legal gaps. for all these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) was proposed by the board of supervisors and, following his hearing, the appointment was approved by the econ committee. eiopa's tasks shall be to ensure the stability of the financial system, the transparency of financial markets and products and the protection of contractors. unfortunately, in our view, there are many doubts about the usefulness of eiopa for european citizens and its actual ability to protect the target markets. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ eiopa is the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. it was established in 2010 and its main objectives are to improve consumer protection, restore confidence in the financial system and promote wider harmonisation and enforcement of rules for financial institutions and markets within the eu. the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa, mr carlos montalvo, will expire on 31 march 2016, but already on 28 january 2016 the board of supervisors of eiopa, following an open selection procedure, proposed to appoint mr fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years. on 23 february 2016, the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr fausto parente, hearing his statements and answers to questions put to him by the members of the committee. the committee has given a favourable opinion and has brought the matter to the attention of parliament. the gualtieri report, which i supported, welcomes the committee's proposal and provides for the appointment of fausto parente as eiopa's executive director.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional capacity of this candidate, but as he is to be the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), he will have to apply rules recently approved by the ep which i strongly opposed; i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting in favour of the candidacy of mr fausto parente. the question is not about professional qualifications, but about a subject which will in fact be called upon to apply some of the rules recently approved by the european parliament and which we have strongly opposed. i am thinking of the recently adopted balz report.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have given my favourable vote to the report on the proposal for the appointment of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) on the basis of the following considerations: - the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa will expire on 31 march 2016; the board of supervisors of eiopa has proposed to appoint fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years, in accordance with article 51 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010; - the selection was carried out by an open procedure, in compliance with the public record, and at the end of the selection fausto parente was heard, during which he made a preliminary statement and answered questions put to him by the members of the committee. for these reasons i have voted in favour of the appointment.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa will expire on 31 march 2016; on 28 january 2016, following a hearing before the competent committee, the board of supervisors of eiopa, following an open selection procedure, proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years. there are no negative comments on the proposed application, but there are doubts about the actual need for the authority in question and its functioning. for this reason, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) of fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because i personally consider him to be a brilliant person and also to have an exceptional international track record in the field of regulation and supervisory policy. i take this opportunity to wish him well in his new job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of dr fausto parente as the new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the new director has a highly respected record in regulatory and supervisory policy. i therefore wish to congratulate him most sincerely and to wish him a good job.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa will end on 31 march 2016. on 28 january 2016, the board of supervisors of eiopa, following an open selection procedure, proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years. on 23 february 2016, the econ committee held a hearing with mr fausto parente, during which he made a preliminary statement and answered questions from the members of the committee. the econ committee subsequently approved the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa. there are no particular problems to be raised with regard to the candidate, but there are still many doubts about the usefulness of this authority and its effective functioning. for these reasons i have decided to abstain during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution appointing the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority because i believe that the candidate selected, fausto parente, has the right skills, both managerial and leadership skills and professional experience at national and international level to play this role.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the eiopa director will have to apply certain rules which i am opposed to.
in writing. the proposal in question concerns the appointment of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for a term of office of five years. the mandate of the current executive director of eiopa will end on 31 march 2016 and we are therefore called upon to decide. in this respect, the board of supervisors of eiopa, following an open selection procedure, proposed dr fausto parente. i support this choice, which was made through a transparent selection process. i therefore congratulate the new director, mr fausto parente, on his personal achievement and wish him well in his work.
in writing. ‒ given the brilliant national and international regulatory and supervisory policy track record of dr fausto parente, currently head of the regulatory and supervisory policy service at ivass, i consider his appointment as head of eiopa (the european insurance and occupational pensions authority) for a five-year term to be very welcome news. i therefore vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is a body of the european union. eiopa's primary objective is to protect the public interest by contributing to the stability and effectiveness of the financial system, for the benefit of the economy of the european union, its citizens and its businesses. on 28 january 2016, the board of supervisors of eiopa, following a selection procedure, proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years, in accordance with article 51 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010. i hope that, also as a result of my vote in favour today, the new executive director of eiopa will be able to work with the utmost independence and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the draft decision voted today provides for the appointment of the new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, mr fausto parente, for a period of five years. since the candidate was considered sufficiently qualified, i decided to vote in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ on 28 january, the eiopa board of supervisors, following an open selection procedure, proposed the appointment of fausto parente as executive director for a five-year term, taking into account that the term of office of the current executive director of eiopa will expire on 31 march 2016. on 23 february, the econ committee heard the candidate and approved his appointment as executive director. there are no particular problems to be raised with regard to the candidate, but there are still many doubts about the usefulness of this authority and its effective functioning. that is why i preferred to abstain during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ in the area of freedom, security and justice, the stockholm programme had already highlighted the need to develop common rules to ensure that procedural guarantees for children who are being investigated or accused are respected. according to the latest research, over 1 million children are involved in criminal proceedings. despite the high percentage, member states continue to provide for different systems and treatment, often resulting in convictions by the european court of human rights. the directive defines a fairly organic catalogue of rights, with minimum standards, respecting the specific needs of minors, at all stages of the procedure. i have chosen to vote in favour of the proposal for a directive because ensuring that the rights and procedural guarantees of minors involved in criminal proceedings are respected must be not only a commitment for europe but a responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is part of the process of strengthening the rights of suspects and accused persons promoted by the council since 2009. the data confirm that over 1 million children are subjected to criminal proceedings in europe each year, with treatment varying considerably from country to country. i felt it necessary to support the chinnici report because i believe it is essential to deal effectively with the issue of safeguards in legal proceedings by providing a common european model of due process for minors. the directive adopted requires member states to guarantee the inalienable right to be assisted by a defence lawyer by identifying deprivation of liberty as an extreme measure, to be imposed for a short period of time only. the text reiterates the need to ensure that children are held separately from adults, while strengthening the right to be accompanied by parents or other appropriate adults at hearings and at the various stages of the trial. it is a good proposal in general terms and it is a significant follow-up to the good italian experience in this area.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the arguments made in the report by my colleague on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. it is important to guarantee, through a common basic legislation, the right to a fair trial for persons under the age of 18. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today is an important milestone in the final adoption of a directive which is a key part of the european package on procedural guarantees in the judicial field. the report stresses the importance of harmonising existing rules and establishing common minimum standards for the safeguards of a particularly specific category, namely children involved in criminal proceedings. given the profound diversity which currently exists in this area between the member states, i welcome a text which aims to bring about greater harmonisation within the union on such a sensitive subject, acting first in the interests of the child, as required by article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union. the minimum standards and norms identified in the report are aimed at standardising and extending the level of protection of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings within the eu, including the right of the child to a lawyer, to an individual assessment of the measures and penalties involved in the proceedings, to greater protection of privacy during the proceedings and to a detention regime separate from that of adults, aimed at facilitating their reintegration into society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that the situation of procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings in europe must be substantially improved. the enormous diversity of the provisions in this field in the various national legal systems and the lack of the most basic procedural guarantees in some of them make it necessary to create a system of minimum guarantees which will allow, on the one hand, greater uniformity and, on the other, greater protection for children accused.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that over 1 million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu each year, or 12% of all people involved in criminal proceedings in the same territory. research carried out at european level shows that, at present, the rights of minors at the various stages of the procedure are not sufficiently guaranteed within the union, and there are numerous cases of condemnation of states by the european court of human rights. the european parliament must help ensure that the right to the compulsory assistance of a lawyer in the case of minor offences is automatically guaranteed. there are no offences which do not have consequences for the child which justify disregard for his or her rights of defence. it is therefore for parliament to approve the proposal for a directive on 'procedural safeguards for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings', which is part of the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings adopted by the council on 20 november 2009, together with some measures already adopted and others currently under discussion.
in writing. ‒ currently, only 6 member states have specialised prosecutors for minors (belgium, the czech republic, greece, italy, luxembourg and the slovak republic) and 9 countries do not even have specialised courts. in some countries, the assistance of a lawyer is not guaranteed; in others, it is only possible in court and not in police stations. in other cases, the decision is referred back to the competent court. we therefore see no attempt to undermine the sovereignty of our member state. the report needs to ensure, through common minimum standards, the effective and sufficiently uniform enjoyment of the right to a fair trial by persons under the age of 18 at all stages of the proceedings. the report reflects the general approach and inspiration of the proposal, including the following highlights: the inalienable right to be assisted by a lawyer, in close connection with the right to legal aid and the right to an individual assessment. the report had our support and mr fontana's vote in favour in the libe committee, where it was adopted by a single vote against. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on procedural safeguards for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings because the child is in a particularly vulnerable situation when detained. particular efforts are needed to prevent the deprivation of liberty of the child, given the risks to his physical, mental and social development and to his reintegration into society. deprivation of liberty must be a last resort and must be for the shortest possible period. with this measure we introduce the obligation for all european countries to recognize legal assistance to the child at all stages of the proceedings, an individual assessment of the child which takes account of his or her background and personality, separate detention between minors and adults, medical assistance and special training for judges who work in the field of juvenile justice.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is part of the roadmap on european procedural rights. the need to ensure common minimum rights is complemented by the need to promote the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions in criminal matters; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children are protected. the proposed text is positive and identifies a structured body of minimum standards calibrated to the specific needs of children; my vote was overwhelmingly in favour.
in writing. ‒ i consider this an important vote in favour, as this proposal for a directive on 'procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings' introduces first of all certain rights which i consider to be fundamental, such as the inalienable right to be assisted by a lawyer, the right to an individual assessment or even the provision for the participation of the minor in the proceedings and the provision for a specific training obligation for those such as judges, lawyers and prison authorities who work in contact with minors. all these elements are necessary in my view to ensure that minors effectively enjoy the right to a fair trial and to guarantee them the proper functioning of the european area of justice. for these reasons i could only vote in favour: the protection of the rights of minors is a sensitive subject which this report, in my view, deals with in a concrete way.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that over one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu each year, representing 12% of all persons involved in criminal proceedings in the same territory. in addition to the numbers, there are also major differences in the treatment of children undergoing this procedure between member states. research carried out at european level shows that, at present, the rights of minors at the various stages of the procedure are not sufficiently guaranteed within the union, and there are many cases of condemnation of states by the european court of human rights. in this proposal for a directive, attention has been paid to the requirement that the recognition of special safeguards on the grounds of the minority and the vulnerable status of the suspect or accused person does not lead to distortions of what is and should remain the proper function and structure of criminal proceedings, linked to the objective and impartial ascertainment by the judicial authority of the criminal responsibility of a person for a given offence. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the resolution deals with the importance of protecting the rights of minors in criminal proceedings, which apply to persons under the age of 18. the protection of children's rights must be a key objective of the european union, which is why children's rights are also enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. the rules and principles contained in international instruments for the protection of children, such as the united nations convention on the rights of the child, must continue to guide the policies and actions of the union. the resolution is included in the 'roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings' adopted by the council on 30 november 2009, which establishes a catalogue of the rights of minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. i believe that the commitment to the rights of children must be translated into concrete political action, and i therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that uniform legislation on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings is indispensable. the european union has successfully defined an area of free movement and residence for its citizens who increasingly travel, study and work in countries other than their country of residence, thus eliminating internal frontiers. this situation has inevitably led to an increasing number of persons being involved in criminal proceedings in a member state other than their member state of residence. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should, in the case of a child, be able to give its opinion on the matter. at present, only six member states have specialised prosecutors for children, nine have no specialised courts and only 12 have specific mandatory training for legal practitioners dealing with children. in this highly heterogeneous context, the parliament's effort to introduce common minimum standards of particular importance to be adopted by all member states is appreciated. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft directive which will guarantee that children who are investigated or accused of a crime will receive a fair trial in any eu country they are in. the text sets out a list of rights and guarantees for a common european model of fair trial for minors, in which a balance can be struck between the need to establish responsibility for the crime and the need to take due account of the vulnerability of the accused. the provision to ensure that minors always have the inalienable right to be assisted by a defence lawyer is particularly important.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on 'procedural safeguards for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings' is an important step forward in the implementation of the eu programme on the rights of the child. it is of fundamental importance that appropriate legislation be introduced to ensure juvenile justice, the safeguards of which are fully and uniformly applied in the member states. the outcome of the negotiations with the other institutions involved in the legislative process is, on the whole, satisfactory: the directive defines a narrow but organic catalogue of the rights of minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (or who are the subject of a european arrest warrant), through a structured body of 'minimum' rules, interconnected and calibrated to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings. i therefore declare that i shall vote in favour of this legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive has as its primary objective the strengthening of the procedural rights of minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings within a member state of the european union. i voted in favour of the directive. the need to ensure, through common minimum standards, the effective and uniform enjoyment by minors of the right to a fair trial at all stages of the proceedings is closely linked to the objective of promoting the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions in criminal matters, ensuring the proper functioning of the european area of justice. the directive also puts the protection and safety of children at the heart of the matter, providing for special guarantees during the dramatic period of detention.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i am in favour of the need to ensure common minimum standards of protection for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings.
in writing. every year over 1 million children are subjected to criminal proceedings in the eu and unfortunately too many children are still denied the basic right to legal aid: in fact, only six member states (belgium, the czech republic, greece, italy, luxembourg and the slovak republic) have specialised prosecutor's offices. these are unacceptable figures for the europe of rights, for the union which supports the protection of human dignity and which promotes the rights of the child. i am very much in favour of the complex work carried out by mrs chinnici in this legislative report, which promotes minimum measures to ensure that children are assisted in criminal proceedings against them and which is committed to reaffirming europe's commitment to protecting the rights, especially those of the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted with conviction in favour of the report by mrs chinnici on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings because i believe it is important to have a core of common rules on the protection of minors who are guilty or suspected of offences as vulnerable subjects. i believe that it is essential to take action to resolve the great differences in the legal systems of the member states, which today see some states offering courts and magistrates specialised in juvenile offences and others which do not even provide for the basic right to legal aid without the authorisation of the judicial authority. i believe that the report makes considerable progress in strengthening the safeguards and rights in relation to the commission's initial proposal and the council's negotiating position, with important achievements in relation to the right to comprehensible and clear information on the procedure, individual assessment and medical examinations, extension of the scope of application to offences committed by persons who have reached the age of majority and a call for the best interests of the child. finally, i fully support the obligation for a child to be assisted by a lawyer at all stages of the proceedings and the definition of this right as inalienable: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty.
in writing. i would first like to congratulate mrs chinnici on her excellent work and on the agreement reached by a large majority on an important directive. it aims to ensure, through common minimum standards, the right to a fair trial for persons under the age of 18 at all stages of criminal proceedings. at present, there is no common legal definition of the basic elements of a fair trial for juveniles at european level. i would like to emphasize some important priorities which are part of the final package, such as the guarantee of the child's assistance by a lawyer from the earliest stages, a right not recognised today in some member states, and measures to achieve the child's rapid social reintegration and to discourage the phenomenon of recidivism. in general, it is a balanced text, which lays down the minimum conditions for a fair trial for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. at present, there are still too many differences in the treatment of children in criminal proceedings in the various member states and, too often, the rights of children in proceedings are not sufficiently guaranteed in the european union. the proposal aims to ensure that european citizens have the right to a fair trial throughout the union and to increase mutual trust in the justice systems of other member states, with a view to facilitating the mutual recognition of their respective judicial decisions. it is of great importance to ensure that the right to a fair trial of minors is guaranteed throughout the criminal proceedings and thus to ensure the proper functioning of european justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive because it strengthens the safeguards for minors who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings, by establishing new principles for the fair trial of minors. children are not and cannot be prosecuted as adults. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒given that an estimated 12% of criminal proceedings in the eu involve minors and that only 6 states have specialised prosecution bodies, i believe that the proposal for a directive creating a structured body of 'minimum' standards is necessary in order to ensure a fair trial for the child. i also welcome amendments which lead to a strengthening of discipline and therefore cannot but vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report builds on the commission's already positive proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, part of the 'stockholm programme' to ensure the effective exercise of the right to a fair trial. according to commission estimates, more than one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the union every year. there are wide differences between member states in their treatment of children and in many cases they are not sufficiently protected, as is shown by the numerous judgments of the european court of human rights against the member states. in this situation, it was essential to intervene, to establish a minimum but indispensable catalogue of rights. i think that the main measures proposed by the commission are acceptable, including the right to legal aid and free legal aid, the obligation to provide training for all those who work with children, measures concerning deprivation of personal liberty, etc. i also think that the improvements, such as the extension of legal aid at every stage of the procedure, which was the subject of strong opposition from the council, but on which parliament was able to extend the scope of its action, are equally important.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that over 1 million children are subjected to criminal proceedings in the eu every year. in addition to the numbers, there are also major differences in the treatment of juveniles in criminal proceedings between member states. at present, only six member states have specialised prosecutors for children, nine member states have no specialised courts and only 12 member states provide for specific compulsory training for judges and lawyers working with children. as a result, a substantial number of minors in the eu are not recognised as having a basic right to legal representation. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a directive because i believe that defining a catalogue of the rights of minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings through a structured body of 'minimum' standards is necessary to ensure the right to a fair trial during all stages of the judicial process.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this report is based on the need to provide greater procedural guarantees to children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. although these are rather sensitive situations, i believe that as minors we have a duty to protect them adequately in order to give lessons in justice to these young people who may one day return to crime. to this end, they must be guaranteed the inalienable right to be assisted by a lawyer; the right to be assessed individually; the commission has already proposed that the court of justice should provide specific training for judges, which are some of the elements that will help these young people.
in writing. ‒ statistics show that over one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu every year, very often in a country other than their own. the problem is that the treatment of children in criminal proceedings differs considerably between member states. the proposed directive aims to establish common minimum standards for the rights of minors who are the subject of investigations or prosecutions in criminal proceedings and in proceedings for the execution of european arrest warrants, in order to facilitate mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions and cross-border cooperation. the provisions concern in particular the right of the child to be assisted by a lawyer, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination and the right to request the audio-visual recording of the interrogation. i hope that this strengthening and broadening of rights will provide a further guarantee that the child will be treated in the same way in all countries of the european union with the care and sensitivity appropriate to his age and his particular needs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal for a directive laying down procedural guarantees for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, providing this particularly vulnerable group with adequate conditions to understand and follow the procedure involving them, to exercise their right to a fair trial and to facilitate their social reintegration. the directive introduces a series of safeguards to deal with the particular situation of the child involved in criminal proceedings: for example, strengthening provisions on the inalienable right to legal assistance, ensuring a thorough individual assessment to identify the specific protection, education and training needs of the child with a view to social reintegration, and ensuring full respect for the integrity and human dignity of the child at all stages of the proceedings. i believe that these are necessary measures to preserve the potential for growth and reintegration into society of minors involved in criminal proceedings, while allowing the normal functioning of the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ this directive aims to create an ad hoc measure, which for the first time considers the specificity of juvenile proceedings at a supranational level, providing clear guarantees for the juveniles involved. the directive aims to define rights for children who are the subject of investigations or prosecutions through a set of minimum standards that focus on the best interests of the child. it is extremely important, as this report rightly points out, that the directive stipulates, always in view of the specific needs of the child and his social reintegration after the end of his criminal experience, that detention should always be considered as an extreme measure to be used when alternative measures are not effectively feasible. where it is unavoidable to deprive the child of his or her personal liberty, the state must do everything possible to safeguard his or her psychophysical development and his or her re-education needs.
in writing. ‒ the positive note of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget is the financial support for large flows of people and the migration emergency. the report also talks about the need to continue coordination between the european budget and economic governance policies, and weak responses to the eu's support for the fight against unemployment. in my view, this report represents another missed opportunity for the eu to play a significant role in the european recovery. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mr geier's report on the guidelines for the 2017 budget. the difficult economic, social and international environment requires careful reflection on the prospects for the european budget for the coming year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main objective of the budget must be to ensure a recovery in economic growth, a definitive overcoming of the crisis, while at the same time addressing the challenges posed by security problems and the consequences of a likely prolongation of the refugee crisis. these are ambitious objectives, requiring the allocation of additional resources and a strengthening of investment. the coordination between public and private resources needs to be improved, while encouraging the commission to clearly define how the planned expenditure can be covered within the ceilings provided for in the 2016 and 2017 budgets. today's vote is an important first step in defining the broad lines of the next budget and calling for a careful assessment of the choices.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the commission tries to make what is negative look positive: it is not possible to ask the member states to do austerity and not cut unnecessary expenditure by the european institutions. i also believe that the subject of work should be given much more prominence in the union's programmes, given the serious discomfort faced by the citizens, who do not see the alleged recovery announced by brussels. the eu's failed policies are plain to see. for these reasons i did not support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, for a number of reasons, the 2017 budget will be a turning point for the european union. the worsening of the various crises (migration, economic, etc.) and the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) will require a major effort from the union budget and i believe that effective and permanent solutions must be found to enable the eu to deal with them in an appropriate manner.
in writing. ‒ tommaso padoa-schioppa used to say that 'strictness is for the states, development is for the union'. the union must become the institution that promotes growth and development in europe, both as a catalyst for the positive realities already at work in the union and as the architect of macroeconomic initiatives to give europe the direction it needs. for us progressives, the investment plan of the juncker commission is not the end point but the starting point of the shift towards growth and development that we want to give the union: we must provide it with its own fiscal resources, because only by having its own revenue can we loosen the suffocating grip of national governments on federal policies: in particular, there is an urgent need to move in this direction to support the important role of european agencies in ensuring the implementation of community legislation and in achieving its strategic objectives on competitiveness, growth and employment on the one hand, and in managing the current migration and refugee crisis on the other; the persistence of socioeconomic inequalities and the difficulties in achieving socioeconomic convergence are of concern. i hope that the union budget will promote convergence, integration and cohesion policies pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable, inclusive and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i vote against it. the resolution on the draft budget for 2017 offers no interesting insights. it is not that the european parliament is not interested in the future of the union, but that it is not interested in the future of the union. moreover, given the serious situation of mass illegal immigration to the eu, there are several references to the (in our view) failed policies proposed by the commission. in short, once again, as every year, we are faced with a text that is not very courageous and does not highlight the real needs in relation to the eu budget: the commission has also proposed a net cut in expenditure, also to meet the needs of increasingly fragile member states. there are too many positive references to the union's so-called 'own resources' (including the high level group chaired by mario monti), the 'junker plan' and the eu's monetary policy. apart from some particularly fanciful requests, several amendments are acceptable, but very few will be supported by the two main political groups.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to enable the eu to overcome the crisis and accelerate economic recovery. the community budget for next year must focus on the refugee crisis and economic recovery, with a quantitative and qualitative increase in investment. it must in particular tackle the problems of long-term and youth unemployment and close the gaps in economic development in europe. on the migrant emergency, the european budget has already provided an immediate response to the ongoing refugee crisis. however, the crisis is still far from being resolved and therefore additional financial resources are needed to address it. i am deeply concerned about the low level of contributions by member states to the regional trust fund for syria and the emergency trust fund for africa and the lack of uniformity in the solidarity shown by member states in the face of the refugee crisis. it seems clear that once again there will not be enough resources to enable the eu to tackle all the tasks that the member states have assigned to it. i therefore ask the council: the european union's budget must be able to cope with crises in a tangible way!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european parliament's annual report setting out the guidelines for the establishment of the budget for the year 2017. while it is certainly to be welcomed that for the first time the issue of immigration has been placed at the centre of the european budget (as was loudly requested by the delegation of the five star movement during the previous two budget years), the report contains a number of critical and unacceptable aspects. among these were the many considerations on the need to continue coordination between the european budget and the failed policies of economic governance, the absence of references to the fight against unemployment and concrete solutions to the problem of late payments, and an excessive praise of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i share the political priorities of the european commission for next year's budget, calling for a greater boost to investment for growth, competitiveness and employment. it was an important vote because the union budget in this document proves to be an essential resource to deal with the recent crisis. i could only vote against the request for more flexibility in member states' expenditure on, for example, investment to combat unemployment, poverty and inequality or even investment to deal with emerging security threats and the migration and refugee crisis as current problems too important to be dealt with freely by individual member states.
in writing. ‒ the political priorities of the european parliament for next year's budget have been highlighted in this report. the most important factors which have led me to vote in favour are: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the budget of the european union has proved to be an essential resource in dealing with recent crises through, for example, the use of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi).
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for the eu budget for 2017 that will be presented by geier should be able to respond to the most urgent needs of the member states, while continuing to play a key role in the development and achievement of the eu's objectives. but there is no mention in genier's proposal of the support that the union's budget and guidelines could provide for the labour crisis, immigration, the issue of late payments. although eu policies should provide the resources needed to address the major issues facing the current european situation, no concrete solutions are proposed in the 2017 budget guidelines. i believe that more attention should be paid to the areas which create added value for the eu and to the terrible conditions in which small and mediumsized enterprises, workers, the unemployed and young people find themselves, through concrete commitments and actions which will effectively and efficiently change the current state of crisis. i think that the guidelines presented by the rapporteur are neither sufficient nor adequate, and i certainly appreciate that immigration has been placed at the centre of the european budget, but otherwise i do not see any concrete action in the report. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it once again fails to highlight the real needs of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general guidelines for the 2017 eu budget because, without prejudice to the payment and commitment appropriations already set in the multiannual financial framework, they clarify the ep's objectives for 2017. with this important parliamentary step, the budgetary procedure for 2017 has come into force. however, there is an urgent need to review the multiannual financial framework as part of a broader reform of financial resources. it is clear that to deal with the migration emergency and the need to accelerate the slow recovery and finally exit the long crisis, through strategic actions in favour of long-term unemployment and to address the growing social inequalities and disparities in economic and therefore territorial development within the eu and between regions, greater financial resources are needed. the union budget cannot be seen as an adjustment variable subject to macroeconomic conditions but rather as a tool to promote a faster recovery by stimulating investment in strategic sectors capable of creating quality development and employment and ensuring better coordination between public and private investment. the ep strongly supports greater coordination of economic policies within the european semester, which takes account of economic forecasts.
in writing. the union budget is of fundamental importance as it is, for the most part, an investment budget. as we all know, economic recovery is slow and it is essential that we strengthen the instruments that can promote growth and create new jobs. agriculture, structural funds, growth and migration management are among the main priorities for 2017. with the report adopted today we have highlighted parliament's wishes for the procedure that is about to begin and we call on the commission to take due account of this in the drafting of the draft budget, ensuring that the necessary appropriations are allocated to important programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme, life, the sme funding programmes and erasmus+, as well as to policies related to the phenomenon of migration.
in writing. ‒ the document voted on today contains useful guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget. the inclusion of funds to improve the problem of youth unemployment is particularly crucial at this time. i am glad that the mention of size has been included. gender equality can be a huge economic benefit. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in view of the budgetary objectives for 2017, it is important to bear in mind that the recovery we are hoping for is still far from being achieved. i believe that the revitalisation of growth and employment through the possibility for member states to take advantage of a more flexible policy and the use of part of the quotas as a response to the refugee crises and geopolitical tensions in the middle east are imperative priorities for parliament's political activity. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this year too, the debate on the eu budget is likely to be very difficult, especially given the very small figures in relation to the challenges facing the union. while the commission must undoubtedly work more effectively with a lighter administration, it must never be forgotten that 94% of the union budget is earmarked for investment in employment, the environment, migration flows, enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, and research. our budget is the only real support for the real economy and in particular the efsi will also help to revive in 2017 those strategic investments that have been missing from the european agenda for too long. the migration crisis and the neighbouring countries on both the mediterranean and the eastern borders will also have to be addressed: a strong and sufficient eu budget will allow much more effective political action by the union itself. the challenges remain global and common and i hope that with these first guidelines for what the 2017 budget will be, we will be able to give a clear and strong response to these challenges.
in writing. ‒ the priorities for the 2017 budget include the problems of long-term youth unemployment, the disparities in economic development in europe and the refugee crisis. the report shows that the funds will not be sufficient to meet all the commitments. for example, the level of contributions paid by member states to the two trust funds dedicated to some of the existing crises (the regional trust fund for syria and the emergency trust fund for africa) is too low. furthermore, as regards turkey, it is not clear how the community contribution will be made available within the ceilings of the union budget for 2016 and 2017. despite the obvious difficulties, the eu budget remains a very important instrument and must be used to the full, especially to meet the needs of security and economic growth. that is why i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as is the procedure, each year in this month the european parliament prepares a report setting out the guidelines we all want to be taken into account by the other co-legislators when they draw up the budget for the following year. we have of course called for greater impetus to economic growth, which means a reduction in unemployment and greater economic stability for the whole of the european union, but we know that the most serious and major problem at the moment is the migration crisis. in order to put an end to this apparently unstoppable flow, we must ensure that a share of the budget is allocated to the various instruments we have put into practice and to those which we are preparing to adopt in the future, also in the light of the conclusions of the european council in mid-march.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the document setting out the european parliament's main political priorities for the 2017 budget and providing an assessment of the current financial situation in relation to the challenges we face today as the european union. in parliament's view, the 2017 budget should focus on more investment in economic growth and job creation, which are still struggling to recover, while ensuring a balance between limited financial resources and the new emergencies the eu is experiencing. the text therefore calls for the council's full support for the use of flexibility instruments, which imply a reform of the multiannual financial framework (mff). personally, i believe that this transition is crucial if the eu budget is to be a real tool for managing current crises, including in particular the migrant and refugee crisis, but also supporting economic growth (for example through the efsi) and climate policy. i therefore strongly support the need to insist that the revision of the mff 2014-2020 be implemented in a legislative proposal by the end of 2016 in order to allow for a timely revision.
in writing. this report, which outlines the guidelines for the 2017 budget, is also in disconcerting continuity with previous ones, confirming the inability of the establishment to question what has not worked and thus identify concrete and effective measures to improve the economic situation, especially in the most vulnerable sectors and regions. the report, as in previous years, is based on a distorted interpretation of the current economic situation and the causes of the crisis, and on the belief that the technocratic and neoliberal mechanisms for coordinating the european semester, in which absurd economic recipes have been prescribed, must be taken into account and integrated into the preparation of the next budget. i also believe that this report fails to express adequate and concrete solutions, or at least to suggest alternatives to an approach which has produced no tangible benefits, although i appreciate the fact that the text makes appropriate references to the fight against unemployment, the migration crisis and also the problem of late payments. finally, our amendments, which are highly critical of the current economic governance policies and instruments, the controversial juncker fund and the misuse of the youth guarantee fund, and our calls for a reduction in administrative expenditure, were rejected. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the rapporteur-general for the eu budget presents guidelines for the establishment of the budget for 2017. the approach to this text has changed very little from previous years, following a pattern which is now well established. it starts with some economic considerations, which i strongly criticise, on the need to continue the coordination between the european budget and the failing economic governance policies, and then goes into some of the priorities and issues to be tackled, with a particular focus on the immigration issue. there is no lack of references to the support that the eu budget could give to enterprises and in the fight against unemployment, and a proper reference to the problem of late payments, without, however, proposing any concrete solution. on the one hand, we can be satisfied that immigration is finally at the heart of the european budget, but on the other hand there is little new, if not beautiful but useless words and intentions that are then hardly translated into concrete action.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the interinstitutional agreement is to 'produce better, more effective rules', but also to 'de-bureaucratize' the european union: fully shared objectives. in fact, although there are improvements, the agreement is weak on issues that are fundamental to us: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i have decided to abstain because we believe that the study of these three issues is fundamental to the development of a healthy and participatory democracy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the hübner report on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. this is an important text which aims to improve the planning, transparency and quality of the legislative production process. this updates the previous agreement of 2003, which did not provide for the institutional framework established by the lisbon treaty. the new agreement provides for an impact assessment of the legislation. the commission will not only cover economic, social and environmental aspects but will also assess the impact of the laws adopted on competitiveness, particularly in relation to regional realities and smes. as regards programming, at the beginning of each term of office, the three institutions will coordinate their efforts to define multiannual priorities, which will be followed by a similar process on an annual basis.
in writing. ‒ although the text is largely agreeable, there are passages in it which i consider controversial and which could cause criticism in the future, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that this new interinstitutional agreement will finally take due account of the social dimension of the union's policies. the role of social dialogue and social and environmental impact assessment will make it possible in the future to improve the quality of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions have a number of tools to improve and simplify european legislation. the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making commits these institutions to cooperate together to better legislate and to ensure that eu policies and rules achieve their objectives with minimum cost and administrative burden. the european parliament should support and implement the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and thereby strengthen cooperation with the european council and the european commission in order to improve the way the european union legislates and ensure that eu legislation better serves european citizens and businesses. this agreement will make the eu legislative process more transparent, open to input from stakeholders and easier to follow. it will also contribute to the assessment of the impact of eu law on small and medium-sized enterprises, local industry and citizens. the new agreement between the eu institutions will also aim to make cooperation between them easier and clearer.
in writing. - i abstained. the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and the attached memorandum of understanding on delegated acts contain practical arrangements, agreed between parliament, the council and the commission, for the conduct of the ordinary legislative procedure and the ensuing delegated and implementing acts. the main innovation compared with the previous eia is the introduction of a preventive impact assessment of each legislative proposal and more in-depth and timely ex post evaluations of existing legislation, with the ultimate aim of avoiding over-regulation and unnecessary burdens, with particular reference to smes. the commission also aims to ensure a more uniform and transparent application of delegated acts. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the content and objectives of the iia are shared, apart from the well-known considerations about the inherent democratic deficit of the eu. it should be noted, however, that in the afco report 'the need for greater flexibility in the application of the eight-week period available to national parliaments to give a reasoned opinion on the non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity', as underlined in paragraph 12, is in open contrast to the support shown for the 'one-fits-all' approach, because '1 costs less than 28' (paragraph 7) - in other words, the malevolent idea of the 'cost of non-europe'.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this agreement, which aims to improve the way the eu legislates and to ensure that eu legislation delivers better services to citizens and businesses. this agreement will involve smes, local industry and citizens more closely in the decision-making process, in particular through the creation of a web portal to follow initiatives and new public consultations during the evaluation of existing policies or possible new proposals. a permanent platform for stakeholder dialogue is also being set up to involve business, civil society and social partners in the effort to reduce regulatory and administrative burdens. this agreement makes cooperation between the eu institutions easier and clearer. finally, measures are agreed to improve the exchange of views and information between parliament and the council as legislators. however, i believe that more work is needed, particularly as regards mutual access to information and meetings, so that we can ensure a real balance and equal treatment between legislators throughout the legislative process, while ensuring that the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions is respected.
in writing. ‒ the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making introduces improvements over the 2003 agreement it replaces, but it has two major criticisms, one of method and one of substance. the parliament's authorized representative conducted the negotiations without the guidelines for the individual chapters and the substantive issues being discussed in the committee responsible. it has therefore effectively been deprived of its powers. in addition, the text of the agreement often contains vague and imprecise commitments, in particular on the introduction of greater transparency and the issue of monitoring contacts between lobbyists and institutions. i therefore voted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making is yet another confirmation of the commitment of parliament, the council and the commission to a clearer and more transparent legislative process. 'better lawmaking' will involve greater cooperation between the three institutions and will simplify existing legislation, avoiding over-regulation and the resulting administrative burden on citizens, administrations and businesses, including smes, and ensuring that the objectives of the legislation are achieved. the legislative proposals will be accompanied by impact assessments which will support the legislative process with the aim of improving and rationalising existing and future legislation. i welcome the text voted in plenary because it is aimed not only at speeding up the decision-making process but also at drawing up legislation that is more understandable and clearer for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it represents a renewal, in my view, of the previous interinstitutional agreement of 2003. it has been a long process of important negotiations between the council, the commission and the european parliament, which in my view has achieved important objectives such as avoiding excessive regulation and updating and simplifying legislation which in turn have led to better interinstitutional relations. i also spoke in favour of this agreement because it is a clear commitment by the institutions to respect the general principles of union law, to promote simplicity, clarity and consistency in the drafting of union legislation and, above all, to promote the utmost transparency in the legislative process, all of which are, in my view, fundamental elements aimed at simplifying the whole of legislation by making it more understandable and clear, thus enabling citizens, businesses and administrations to understand their rights more easily and avoiding excessive administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ the last agreement in force on 'better regulation' was in 2003, when the european union comprised only 15 member states. the better regulation package published by the commission in 2015 and adopted politically at the end of last year allows the current rules to be updated to the regulatory framework created by the lisbon treaty. the agreement covers three areas: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i voted in favour of parliament's proposal for a decision because it will help to consolidate best practice and bring it into line with modern concepts of 'better lawmaking'.
in writing. ‒ while the idea behind the interinstitutional agreement between the council, parliament and the european commission on better lawmaking is certainly shared, we cannot unfortunately be fully satisfied with the way in which the agreement was reached. the negotiator appointed by parliament was given a general mandate by the afco committee, but no guidelines were laid down for the individual chapters and the substantive issues. this has in fact left a very wide margin of discretion to the negotiator, reducing the prerogatives of the parliamentary committee. the agreement reached, while containing some good points, is still lacking in certain respects: firstly, there is no guarantee of greater transparency in trilogues, nor in delegated and implementing acts. it is also regrettable that the question of the control of lobbyists and of contacts between them and the institutions has not been dealt with in practice. finally, the opportunity to call for greater direct involvement of citizens in the decision-making process was lost. for these reasons, and as i am not entirely satisfied with the agreement reached, i shall refrain from approving this proposal for a european parliament decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, despite the doubts i had about the way the negotiations were conducted. the agreement addresses key points of the issue, including references to sme and competitiveness testing, impact assessments for substantial changes, maximum duration and review clauses and a commitment to burden reduction. this agenda is a step in the right direction towards informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making and the correct application of legislation.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the report contains contradictory and unclear elements.
in writing. i support the interinstitutional agreement on improving the quality of legislation that was concluded a few weeks ago, a text that improves the transparency and functioning of the eu and better involves the social partners. among the particular highlights of the agreement i would stress the guarantee that the impact assessments carried out by the commission before a legislative proposal also include the consideration of social and environmental standards and also take into account the so-called 'costs of non-europe', i.e. the cost to citizens of delay in the implementation of common measures at eu level. i think it is important to include various measures to increase transparency in the council's work and to increase the control of the actual correct transposition of community directives in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission because i believe that the issue of the effectiveness of the european regulatory process and of better law-making is a key issue in regaining the trust of our citizens and our businesses in the eu. i share the position of the s&d group which supported the agreement negotiated by parliament with the other institutions, an agreement which is necessary to bring the eu legislative procedure into line with the lisbon treaty and to ensure the quality and timing of eu law while ensuring a level playing field between the different institutions and thus greater involvement of parliament. i welcome the reference to the cost of non-europe in the commission's impact assessments and the need to take account of the social, environmental and labour effects of eu rules before they are adopted, because this is an important step in protecting the rights and interests of our citizens. finally, i agree with the call for the sme dimension in the decision-making process and the link with national parliaments, which are also called upon to play an important role in a europe which legislates less but with higher quality.
in writing. the better regulation agreement aims to improve the way the eu legislates and to ensure that eu legislation better serves citizens and businesses. another important objective, which i fully share, is to make the eu legislative process even more transparent, open to input from stakeholders and easier for non-specialists to follow. the provisions of the new interinstitutional agreement aim to continue to promote informed, inclusive and transparent decision-making. i would also like to stress that the measures to improve the mutual exchange of views and information between parliament and the council are a great step forward. i have decided to vote in favour because the framework outlined shows that the three european institutions are fully convinced of the importance of a more open dialogue, of fair and transparent cooperation, in order to legislate better in the interests of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. that agreement lays down the general principles and arrangements for cooperation between those institutions, in particular during the legislative process, with a view to improving the drafting and application of union law. the agreement will enable the institutions to better coordinate the legislative process, improve transparency and accessibility of information for citizens and produce clear, simple and effective legislation.
in writing. ‒ transparency in our role is crucial. as the only eu institution directly elected by citizens, we have a clear responsibility to our constituents. improving legislative procedures is more important than ever to assert european values. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the 'better lawmaking' agreement signed on 19 may 2015, which replaces the current 2003 interinstitutional agreement, will lighten the interinstitutional legislative process and make it even more responsive to the needs the eu faces on a daily basis. i therefore welcome the agreement between the institutions and the simplification of legislation and i say that i will vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this decision in support of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking because i believe that a qualitative leap is needed at this time and that europe needs to improve in many ways, one of which is certainly transparency in its legislative processes. the union is a machine which too often does not tell its citizens what it is doing for them or which is even too often ineffective because of the too much fatigue of its procedures. this agreement calls for greater transparency and a more important role for parliament, the only institution that directly expresses the voice of the citizens. i also think it is important to include the cost of 'non-europe' in the impact assessments, because it is good to remember how much the european union's action has saved citizens and businesses in many areas and that the lack of a common policy will lead to us all losing, not only politically but also and above all economically. i therefore support this agreement in the hope that europe will once again be the dream of civilization and solidarity that the founding fathers had in mind 60 years ago.
in writing. ‒ the better regulation agreement aims to improve the way the eu legislates and to ensure that eu legislation better serves citizens and businesses by making the eu legislative process more transparent, open to stakeholder input and easier to follow. the better regulation agenda covers the entire programme cycle: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the following: specific principles, objectives, tools and procedures will be defined for each phase of the cycle to ensure that the eu has the best possible regulation. i voted unanimously in favour of approving this interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, the european parliament, the commission and the council concluded the better regulation agreement with the aim of improving the way the eu legislates and ensuring that regulation responds to the needs of society and business. with today's report, the better regulation agreement is being revised and updated. the proposal concerns, in particular, the joint commitment of the three institutions to promote the simplicity, clarity and consistency of union legislation, the strengthening of cooperation between institutions and the use of better lawmaking tools such as impact assessments and public consultations of all stakeholders and national parliaments. it also refers to the importance of assessing the needs of smes during the phases of the legislative cycle and the commitment to reducing administrative burdens. although i think the agreement lacks ambition, i believe that this report is a step in the right direction towards clearer and more transparent european legislation, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the european union should have clearer, more understandable and thus closer to the citizen rules. reducing excessive regulation and red tape is necessary to achieve a better functioning of the european institutions, but this should not result in a reduction in basic protections for citizens and businesses. this report also appropriately emphasizes the role of national parliaments, with which we must continue to maintain a constant political dialogue. the agreement between the institutions to cooperate with the aim of updating and simplifying legislation and to exchange views on this matter before the finalisation of the commission's work programme is very important. we are now following up on these commitments.
in writing. ‒ in july 2004, philip morris international and the eu signed an agreement to combat counterfeiting and smuggling of cigarettes. the initiative provided for extensive product traceability and traceability procedures, which enabled the competent authorities to easily identify where genuine products were being diverted from authorised sales channels. while the agreement reduced cigarette smuggling, the market and regulatory environment have changed since then and the agreement with smes should not be renewed, extended or renegotiated. the commission's commitment to ratify the protocol on the fight against tobacco is undoubtedly an important step towards strengthening the legislation on this matter. for these reasons i voted in favour, considering it essential that the eu should take action to combat the practice of smuggling in order to protect the health of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, the commission and the member states have negotiated agreements with tobacco producers to strengthen anti-smuggling and anti-counterfeiting measures. under the agreements, the producers would have to pay a collective contribution of €2.5 billion, in return for the eu ending legal proceedings against them caused by the loss of revenue from the illegal cigarette trade estimated at over €10 billion a year. i have serious doubts about the effectiveness of the agreement and have decided today to vote in favour of the joint resolution calling on the commission not to renew the agreement on tobacco with philip morris. the eu's path must be the one indicated by the 2014 eu tobacco directive, which provides for more effective tools to combat smuggling, such as a community traceability and monitoring system for cigarettes, in force from 2019.
in writing. ‒ the resolution analysing the agreement to combat smuggled tobacco between the eu and philip morris international, while partly agreeable, does not offer concrete and clear solutions to overcome the regulatory vacuum that will be created between the end of this agreement in 2016 and the application of the new european legal framework that will come into force from 2019. for these reasons i have opted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the sme agreement should not be renewed because i am convinced that the benefits it brings are less than the positive aspects. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. - abstention from the vote. the eu has signed agreements with the four multinational tobacco companies to make them actively involved in the fight against smuggling. the first of these agreements in chronological order was concluded with philip morris international (pmi) in 2004 and expires this year. in its assessment report, which was submitted to parliament with considerable delay, the commission argues that, although the agreement has helped to bring about a sharp drop in smuggling of sme products (which is questionable), the volumes of smuggling have not decreased at all. it was agreed that bilateral agreements with producers were an outdated instrument and, moreover, considered by the who to be a potential source of conflicts of interest. the anti-smoking organisations claim that the renewal, extension or renegotiation of the agreement would allow the tobacco industry to maintain control over traceability and traceability through codentify, at a time when no independent safety assessment of the system (which is an integral part of the sme agreement) has yet been carried out. but there is also the risk of rendering traceability systems already in place at national level useless, unless they are reintroduced at eu level.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by s&d, greens/efa and efdd to urge the european commission not to renew the anti-smuggling and anti-counterfeiting agreement with philip morris, which expires in july 2016. i am deeply concerned that the budget of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is partly financed by the annual payments of the tobacco industry, as indicated in the agreements themselves, as this situation could lead to a conflict of interest. i have serious doubts about the real effectiveness of the agreement with philip morris in reducing smuggling, because the increase in sales of non-brand cigarettes, the so-called 'cheap white', immediately compensated for the decrease in sales of counterfeit brand cigarettes. rather than renewing agreements with philip morris, the commission should focus on implementing the 2014 tobacco directive, which provides for more effective tools to combat smuggling, such as a community traceability and monitoring system for cigarettes, in force from 2019. member states should also ratify a protocol adopted under the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, which provides for a similar requirement at global level and is expected to enter into force in 2022.
in writing. ‒ the commission's commitment to ratify the protocol on tobacco control is undoubtedly an important step towards strengthening the tobacco control legislation. for these reasons i voted in favour, considering it essential that the eu should take action to combat the practice of smuggling in order to protect the health of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the decision not to renew the agreement between philip morris international (pmi) and the eu as this agreement was created to combat the smuggling of illicit products and therefore i considered its extension necessary. i believe that the renewal would not have created an inappropriate relationship between the eu and the tobacco industry, but on the contrary, an important coalition in an attempt to combat a common enemy, smuggling, which directly affects the health of our citizens and our economy. i also believe that the continuation of this agreement would represent an important step forward in the fight against tobacco, in which the eu is a world leader, in line with the position of the italian customs and monopolies agency which stresses that in the italian case the agreement has given good results in the past, particularly in the fight against smuggling.
in writing. ‒ the illicit trade in tobacco, in addition to leading to a substantial economic loss, contributes to the financing of the activities of international organised crime. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i spoke against the renewal of the agreement concluded in 2004 between the eu and philip morris international (pmi), which provides for the latter's commitment to cooperate with the european commission, specifically with the anti-fraud office (olaf), and with the member states to prevent its products from entering the channels of smuggling in europe and the rest of the world. the agreement, which expires in june 2016, should not be renewed because, as the evaluation report submitted by the commission shows, its primary objective - the reduction of smuggled products of smes - has been achieved, with an 85% decrease in the trade of illegal cigarettes. although further efforts are still needed before a general reduction in this phenomenon can be achieved, i believe that the fight against smuggling cannot be delegated to the tobacco industry but must be conducted on the basis of the legal instruments available, such as the who framework convention on tobacco control and the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products and tobacco products directive 2014/40 which introduces, in particular, a legal obligation for product traceability by companies in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tobacco in the first place because i believe that the current agreements with the tobacco industry are a flagrant example of a complete lack of transparency. these agreements were concluded because the european commission took legal action against philip morris international and other companies, accusing them of smuggling cigarettes: a large proportion of the smuggled goods came directly from the farms producing them. philip morris has paid the member states one billion euros over 12 years, but we do not know how this revenue, and the revenue from fines for seizures of original material, has been used. the resolution therefore calls for these agreements not to be renewed, and also calls for an independent traceability system to be set up: at present, the same manufacturers own the system for tracing cigarette packets, so that controllers and controlled are the same. the resolution also calls on the commission to ratify the who protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products and to deal with the issue of 'cheap whites', i.e. cigarettes which are illegal in europe and are sold on the black market, with serious damage to the health of citizens.
in writing. the european commission signed an agreement with the us giant philip morris (pmi) in 2004 which expires in july 2016 and could therefore be renewed. the aim of the agreement, worth over one billion euros, was to help combat cigarette smuggling by using the cooperation of the multinational tobacco company. however, it was found that a large proportion of the illicit goods came directly from the producing companies, which smuggled their own product from secondary sites where more was produced than was required by the legitimate market. the classic paradox where the controller and the controlled coincide. the eu institutions and tobacco and cigarette multinationals are thus becoming increasingly intertwined. doubts are being raised as to why the european commission has repeatedly delayed the publication of the evaluation of the cartel with the tobacco giant. i could only vote in favour of the resolution which, thanks to the action of the five star movement, will commit the european commission not to renew the agreement with philip morris. we in m5s have worked to get the whole of the european parliament to stand up for some of our most important battles: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products.
on behalf of the s&d group: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, in your passionate speech you spoke of democracy and cooperation. i mean, he talked about values. i believe that the real battle for the future of europe is not fought on the military front. in syria as elsewhere, the battle for europe is first and foremost a battle of values. we must show that we can adapt the european union to the global changes of the last few decades, without losing, or even strengthening, our values. and there is one value above all: the value of solidarity, a word which in this europe torn by nationalism and selfishness may no longer be fashionable but which remains the foundation of the european union. solidarity and dignity were two values dear to olof palme, whose death we commemorated 30 years ago. i like to remember a phrase of his. palme said, "for us, democracy is a matter of human dignity, and human dignity is political freedom". dignity and solidarity. solidarity means, first of all, solidarity with those who are oppressed and fleeing wars. you gave some impressive numbers: 80,000 refugees accepted by sweden. thank you, prime minister! it is clear that in the face of the new international context, the states alone cannot do it and europe is needed. sweden, germany, italy or any other member state cannot do everything alone. we need a common european asylum system that goes hand in hand with a review of dublin, as you have indicated. solidarity today means fighting for that social europe which you rightly recalled: the european parliament has already said that it will not vote for the report. this means that all workers, regardless of their nationality, should be paid equal pay for equal work. our group, thanks also to the important contribution of your country's delegation, has secured the support and commitment of the juncker commission to the presentation of the directive on posted workers and we welcome this presentation and will endeavour to ensure that this vision is in line with all its most positive developments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to ask you for some clarification, taking advantage of your presence. because you in the council support the pnr, that is the passenger register, while your party and government colleagues here in parliament continually reject it. and how do you explain your country's change of course from an open door policy to a closed door policy, with restrictions on asylum seekers which are totally at odds with the socialists and the greens, who are also here in the european parliament? but above all, i have one question to ask you, mr. prime minister: how is it possible that even in sweden, a model country of acceptance of tolerance, of equal opportunities, we are witnessing the dramatic rise of the phenomenon of anti-semitism? even in malmö, the city that welcomed thousands of jews fleeing nazism in 1943, there were several incidents of intolerance. but so alarming that the few hundred jews who still live there, according to a television documentary, are afraid to leave their homes, they don't feel safe and are thinking of leaving the city. of course, stockholm is another story, but we're worried. i would like to know what your government intends to do, apart from the fine and correct words you have spoken here, because a minister has also said things which, if true, would be disturbing. but i say to you, dear prime minister, that if the jews, who have helped to build european culture, think that europe, that sweden, is no longer a safe place for them, is no longer even their home, believe me, the lights of hope will go out and the winter of despair will be long and dark.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dialogue in foreign policy is always essential, and choosing with whom to dialogue is even more important. the eritrean government has so far proved to be a very unreliable partner. in addition to the suspicions of support for the al-shabaab militias in somalia, we must remember the very serious case of forced conscription, including of minors, who are then forced to emigrate, alone, on the dangerous route to sudan, libya, europe and if caught fleeing are arbitrarily detained by the authorities, with intolerable violations of human rights. the european union has a duty to help the victims of the war in afghanistan. it is right to use the trust fund for european union aid but only if we see concrete steps to respect conditionality. that doesn't seem to be the case. we are for strong support for the eritrean people, to fight against the poverty that is the cause of emigration. but we want to see real progress. uncritically supporting a government like this often means openly condemning its people. who do we want to defend today? i think this parliament has a very clear line: the council must take this into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eritrea is the country of origin of many of the refugees who arrive in europe. according to the un and human rights watch, the exodus is fueled by human rights violations. there is talk of summary executions without trial, disappearances, torture and forced conscription. a un report says the government is also using tensions with neighbouring countries as a pretext to ignore human rights and to subject every aspect of daily life to military control. in the past, due to the very harsh conditions in the country, amnesty international has called on many states to stop the practice of forcible repatriation of eritrean exiles. this was also discussed at the eu-turkey summit on the migration emergency. the european union must resolve the issue of migration flows with asmara and make economic aid conditional on a significant improvement in fundamental freedoms in the country.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was march 2004 when macedonia was beginning its accession process; so 12 years ago. this path has been abruptly interrupted: the democratic spirit has been lost, political factions have started to clash. now, it is clear that we have a task and a duty to try to bring macedonia back on that path and we have to do it on the basis of certain assumptions, such as media reform, that it is a free media, that it is no longer under government pressure, such as effective and multi-level fight against corruption, such as support for justice to run its course, with the special prosecutor and with the courts, that give the right sentences to the guilty. but also by providing the conditions for regular and free lessons, and therefore by cleaning up the electoral registers which are necessary to get to the polls. we hope that macedonia will soon be democratic and that it will once again be a friendly country with which to work together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is concern about the deteriorating situation in fyrom, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, freedom of the media and fundamental rights, which are fundamental parameters for the european union. there are still strong inter-ethnic tensions across the country and the non-cooperative approach to the migration emergency is not helping. thousands of migrants, many of them children, are crammed onto the border with greece, a border closed by barbed wire and where only a very small number of migrants are allowed to pass, many of whom have their documents issued by the greek authorities contested. skopje needs europe's help, but aligning the country with the decisions of the european union is a fundamental element in the process of european integration. i think it is difficult to support the accession of countries which have not made their fundamental political and strategic choices sufficiently clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague ivo vajgl very much for the excellent and excellent work he has done with this report, which is as honest and balanced as ever, a report which does not conceal either the progress made or the serious criticisms still facing the government of fyrom, in particular the reforms which still need to be carried out more consistently in the areas of justice, which is still accused of being selective, the politicization of public administration, corruption, the problems of interethnic coexistence and, most importantly, media freedom. we are firmly in favour of a future and an enlargement perspective for the whole of the western balkans. but we also see a serious political mistake being made by the european union and the commission at the moment: we cannot think of pushing macedonia to become a kind of policeman, so that greece, and then perhaps in the future italy, too, because if this strategy passes, they will become the warehouses of souls, because of the inability of the european leadership today to seriously deal with a redistribution mechanism for the migration phenomenon. this is a mistake: we call for free and transparent elections in macedonia and a more balanced process.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr charles tannock, for his work on this report, which shows the great experience and knowledge of the country. in my view, montenegro is certainly an example in the western balkans and among the candidate countries, and it is also the one which, taking into account the steps taken in recent years, is closest to the union and to accession to the union in its process of rapprochement. it is true that enormous progress still needs to be made on the issue of corruption, including the functioning of public administration, which continues to be a plague common to many candidate countries in this area, and which is still too politicised and too closely linked to the activities of political parties. i would like to stress the problem of high unemployment, especially among young people, which is affecting the country. unfortunately, i cannot agree with the part where he welcomes nato membership very positively, especially in its timing, which in my view risks fuelling tensions and divisions, very deep with the neighbouring countries, but even more is dividing and contributing to the split in the domestic political landscape. but we need a great deal of cohesion to continue on the path towards accession and we need a strong and democratic montenegro, capable of carrying out the reforms which will eventually lead to its joining the european family.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the resolution on montenegro is balanced and useful for the path of this strategic country towards the european union. there is, however, a sensitive issue, which concerns the issue of montenegro's requests for nato membership. the s&d group has tabled a very clear, logical and unassailable amendment. we cannot, as the text of the resolution does, overlap the path to eu membership with that of nato. the eu is a political, cultural, economic and social body. nato is a military alliance. we cannot distort europe and misunderstand nato. they are different and must remain so. otherwise russia would be right to denounce our association and stabilisation agreements with its neighbouring countries as a trojan horse, to pave the way for the atlantic alliance close to its borders. we don't need to make anyone suspicious, to foster misunderstandings, to show our muscles unnecessarily. i think there is already a lot of tension in international relations and certainly europe is showing that it is not coming to terms with it easily. russia is an indispensable ally in the fight against isis, if only in a diplomatic and tactical sense. we avoid unnecessary words and do not touch understandable susceptibilities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i take note, without concealing my many misgivings, of the positive comparison on the stabilization agreement with montenegro. it is essential that every effort be made to ensure free and democratic participation in the forthcoming electoral consultations. i also continue to stress the need for full recognition of the rights and protection of workers. to ensure safety at the workplace and adequate social protection for workers at rest. finally, i raise my concern about the limits we have seen so far in the level of protection of religious, ethnic and political minorities in the lgbt community. i think that a final recommendation should be extended to the promotion of the right of women to participate in political life, in institutional life and in the labour market.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues, and in particular mrs grossetête, with whom we have done a long and important job in committee. there were many amendments, but i think that a point of balance has been reached, a point of significant compromise. what i think should be noted is that we are obviously talking about new rules, new regulations, and some people may immediately be afraid of new rules, of europe imposing new rules in a sector which is already heavily bureaucratized, unfortunately, such as agriculture and livestock. the approach adopted in this work is exactly the opposite, in the sense that we are dealing here with new rules which have been tested in the field, so that they do not constitute any further bureaucratization of the system but, even more, they are rules which are aimed at overall european harmonization, and i think that it is also appropriate for these committees, on this occasion, to recall how we, when we speak of farmers, are talking about a sector such as the milk sector, which in italy, but not only in italy, in several european countries, is really on its knees today. she's going through a very dramatic crisis. these new rules will help this sector in some way. firstly, because these are new rules which will create the same regulations for everyone in europe, so that all european companies which will have to produce milk and raise animals will have the same regulations. because, you see, if the rules are not the same or if they are not enforced in the same way, it ends up that someone can produce milk at a lower price than what can perhaps be produced in italy. in this context, however, i believe that a new regulation which brings everyone together under the same roof can be an advantage and above all a further sign that we cannot leave our farms alone: we must support them, because the crisis they are experiencing is a very hard and difficult one.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the text adopted by the envi committee to be a good text and i thank mrs grossetête for allowing all the groups to make amendments to improve the content of the commission proposal. it should be noted that the commission has repeatedly stressed that the main purpose of the proposal was to stimulate competitiveness, stimulate innovation and, above all, improve the functioning of the internal market. we believe that the main objective of future legislation on veterinary medicinal products must be to protect public health and animal welfare. i have already mentioned in my own-initiative report on patient safety the importance of tackling antibiotic resistance also in the field of veterinary medicine. so we are very pleased that routine prophylaxis is banned and that the use of antibiotics in metaphylaxis is restricted to clinically ill animals. however, in our view, in order to find new effective antibiotics, the use and abuse of the pharmaceutical monopoly, which sets its price by virtue of copyright laws, must be prevented. the aim of industry is to exploit certain substances for as long as possible without stimulating real research. the current text on this point needs to be improved, because it extends from 10 to 18 years the period during which industry can exploit a new drug exclusively. this is contrary to the rules of competition and prevents small and medium-sized companies producing generic medicines from entering the market, thus lowering prices. we are against evergreening because it means limited access to generic medicines, with unacceptable impacts on animal health and welfare.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank very much the two rapporteurs, mrs grossetête and mrs françoise, for the extraordinary work they have done. but mr liese and the other speakers have also spoken at length about your report, and i would like to focus on another aspect, if i may. because we, with tomorrow's vote, will be taking a first step, also towards changing the process by which medicines are approved at european level and we will be able, by voting on the amendments to the regulation, to take a first step towards a drastic reduction, i hope, of the time that elapses between the authorization of the marketing of a new medicinal product and the decisions of individual countries on reimbursement. the current procedure creates very marked differences in the timing of access to new medicines, because the same medicinal product is assessed for its efficacy 28 times, once for each member state, although always on the basis of the same data. it's been a classic and dramatic case of trastuzumab, a drug that's effective against a particular breast cancer, so effective that it's become the standard of care for this type of breast cancer, so effective that it's on the world health organization's list of essential medicines, the list of medicines that should be available in every country in the world, but to get to some countries and actually be used and reimbursed, it's taken sometimes more than 10 years. so i really hope that this first step, it shows us a new way to overcome these difficulties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the existing legal framework in the veterinary medicines sector needed to be improved, particularly as regards the functioning of the internal market, the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance, the lack of incentives for innovation and the administrative burdens imposed in the pharmacovigilance process. this report fills many of these gaps. the fundamental problem is undoubtedly antibiotic resistance: in this context it is essential that member states take account of the guidelines developed by the commission for the prudent use of antibiotics. more complete data on how antibiotics are used are needed and plans need to be put in place to discourage their use for prevention or prophylaxis. but antibiotic resistance must be tackled by reserving some of them for humans only, and the ban on the internet trade in antibiotics must be ensured, and the possibility for veterinarians to prescribe antibiotics and sell them at the same time must be further restricted. the solution, then, is to be found in the concept of one health: we are also protecting human health by protecting animal health.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the 1950s and 1960s, the drug thalidomide was prescribed to pregnant women in europe as a medicine against nausea. then it turned out that it had caused thousands of children in italy, germany, spain, england, to be born with severe deformities, especially in the limbs. today, almost 4 000 people in europe are living with the consequences of this unfortunate drug on their skin. whose fault is that? a large german company, which has not taken responsibility for what happened. but the german government is mainly to blame for hiding the truth for over 50 years. germany, which wants to lecture everyone, which is the master of europe, has been hiding the wrongdoings of the german company for decades, and for me, whoever hides the truth is an accomplice. the german state is complicit. it is time for germany to admit its guilt in the face of the thousands of thalidomide users who are fighting for their rights. finally, this problem is being discussed in this house. but i and especially the national president of tai onlus, vincenzo tomasso, who is in the gallery, nadia and many other thalidomists who are following this debate on the stream want the truth. we in germany want a formal apology and we demand recognition of responsibility with adequate compensation. stop hiding the truth! we want justice . we also want justice for those mothers who felt guilty, unjustly, for taking that damn drug.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the thalidomide tragedy has affected several member states and many of the victims are still waiting for compensation today, half a century later. the manufacturer of the drug, the german pharmaceutical company grünenthal, only in 2012 resigned itself to apologizing to the thousands of people who were victims of the drug, but refusing to compensate. it is essential to take initiatives at european level to provide support and assistance to victims and their families, by providing for a framework protocol, in order to enable all european citizens who are victims of thalidomide to receive adequate compensation regardless of the member state of origin. the commission and the council should endeavour to urge the member states to find a solution to ensure adequate compensation for these persons. thalidomide victims and their families are in dire need of practical financial help.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the victims of thalidomide are a matter which weighs heavily on the consciences of the political and institutional actors, and especially on those who have the responsibility of providing moral compensation for these innocent victims: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. this is a matter which deserves attention and therefore comes up in this parliament, which is always open to questions of social justice. parliament and the institutions are therefore called upon to take responsibility for a decision. we must demand concrete action from those who have been the protagonists of this tragic event.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe the tragic consequences of giving pregnant women thalidomide drugs after more than 50 years continue to be a problem for many people who, having survived, end up in such health conditions, also due to age, that they require specialised and continuing care. the commission is certainly aware of recent studies which provide an up-to-date picture in 21 countries of the specific needs for assistance, benefits and entitlements of certain thalidomide survivors. while respecting the division of powers between the union and the member states, i believe that the commission can and must take action to demand forcefully and insistently that all thalidomide patients be treated equally, and that the unfair disparities which still exist, not only between member states but also within the same member states, for example, depending on the year of birth, be overcome. the thalidomide scandal was said to have given rise to the first european legislation on drug safety to prevent similar tragedies from happening again. we must not leave our fellow citizens and their families behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin, not with the data which have already been mentioned, nor by recounting this tragic story which we all know, but with the words of the president of the italian association of thalidomide practitioners, who recalls: "it was thanks to the action of us victims - the commissioner also mentioned this - that pharmacovigilance was invented and that rigorous testing of medicines was introduced before they were put on the market. last year we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first european law on medicines. let us bear this in mind, because we are discussing today an unresolved tragedy for more than 50 years, marked by silence, lies and omissions, which have weighed and continue to weigh dramatically on many families and on the daily lives of thousands of victims. so after 50 years of silence, it's time to act. the french philosopher gilles deleuze wrote that we are not responsible for the victims, but we are responsible to the victims, and to these victims, apologies are not enough. we have to pay for the damage. it's impossible to repay this damage. but we must give them compensation to enable them to face the costs of their physical condition, which will become even more burdensome as they get older. well, let's just say it was. they would have preferred a vote. let us make this debate more than just a debate and i ask you, commissioner, with a heavy heart, on behalf of all of them, to play the role of mediator, to find a fair agreement between all the survivors, the german government, the german company and all the governments involved, so that all these victims have justice and dignity.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. thalidomide is the pharmacologically active substance developed by the chemie grünenthal company in germany in the 1950s it was marketed as a tranquilizer and anti-nausea and was erroneously declared safe for use in pregnancy. it is estimated that over two million doses were distributed in 50 countries and under 40 different trade names. it was withdrawn from the market only in 1961, when its devastating effects on fetuses became clear. unfortunately, women treated with thalidomide gave birth to babies with severe congenital malformations of the limbs, namely amyloid or various degrees of focomelia, estimated to have affected at least 20,000 children. after more than 50 years, survivors are still trying to find a solution that will allow them to cover the costs of their physical and medical condition, which has unfortunately worsened over the years. nothing can erase what has happened, but i believe that providing effective support and assistance to the victims of thalidomide and their families is the least the european union can do.
the agenda includes the commission statement on the international protection of whistleblowers (2016/2579 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whistleblowers play a key role in the fight against corruption, tax evasion and organised crime, which today move very easily across national borders. they are european phenomena and that is why they require european solutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of whistle-blowers. we cannot be credible in fighting these phenomena if we do not protect those who speak out. unfortunately, at european level, only eight member states have complete legislation on this subject. this parliament, already in 2013, in the framework of the crim committee report, had asked, by a very large majority, that the european commission, by 2013, prepare a legislative proposal that would go in the direction of an effective and comprehensive european programme for the protection of whistle-blowers. three years have passed and we have still not seen any sign of this proposal. i therefore ask the commission why this delay and resistance. finally, i would like to recall that since january 2014 the european institutions have made it mandatory to introduce internal rules on whistleblowing, including whistleblower protection. the european ombudsman has conducted an inquiry into the situation and it has been found that, apart from the commission and the court of auditors, the other institutions, including, alas, this parliament, have done very little to protect whistleblowers. this is a missed opportunity to demonstrate to the public that the european institutions are committed to transparency and to supporting and protecting whistleblowers.
member of the commission.– mr president, it was very interesting to listen to the debates. i would like to thank you warmly for today’s very interesting discussions, especially for me. be assured that i will inform my colleague, commissioner jourová, who is in charge of this file, on the content of today’s debate. let me stress once again the following. we all agree that we should protect whistle-blowers. the question is how? in other words, what is best and what is realistic. it is a very complex question and, of course, we are speaking about human rights and the possibility of a framework covering all the european union. to conclude, commissioner jourová asked me to convey the following message to you: she looks forward to continuing and deepening these discussions with you. once again, thank you very much for a very interesting debate.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes a debate on the question with a request for an oral answer to the commission on the zika virus epidemic, by annie schreijer-pierik, matthias groote, boleslaw g. piecha, josé inácio faria, katerina konecná, martin häusling, piernicola pedicini, joëlle mélin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000030/2016 - b8-0119/2016) (2016/2584 (((rsp)).
president of the envi committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the zika virus epidemic began in brazil in may 2015 and has since spread to 40 countries. the virus has infected about four million people in south america. on 1 february 2016, the international health regulations emergency committee declared that the zika virus epidemic constitutes a public health emergency of international concern. experts agree that a causal link between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly in newborns is highly likely, although this has not yet been scientifically proven. unlike ebola, which is much more dangerous and requires human contact to spread, zika is transmitted through mosquito bites. that is why we have asked for this debate and the debate in the house with the european commission. the subject of our oral question is the request for an overview of the current situation regarding the outbreak and incidence of microcephaly in the union and the actual risk of transmission of zika virus infection in the european union. in this connection, we know that the vector, the aedes aegypti mosquito, is not currently active. but we also know that in the summer, and already in the spring if we think of the countries of southern europe, it will become active. in addition, the presence of the olympics in brazil should be considered, an event that, due to the already expected movement of large numbers of people, will and could generate the proliferation of the spread of the virus. in addition, when the rio 2016 event begins, there will be, due to climatic conditions, a greater development of mosquito populations, which are precisely the vectors of the disease. in view of this, the commission, envi intends to ask the commissioner what actions are being taken to prevent the spread of the disease in the european territory and whether the necessary measures have already been prepared to deal with a possible emergency, should this also occur in europe. i ask, for example, whether the commission considers that it is advisable for the health authorities in the union to cooperate with the transport sector in order to ensure the disinfection of cargo, cargo carriers, cabins and passenger compartments of aircraft coming from areas affected by the virus. i would also like to know whether it is possible to extend the use of insecticides and whether, as has been proposed, efforts will be made to sterilize mosquitoes to prevent their production by means of the so-called sterile male technique. as regards the financial part, i would ask the commissioner whether he considers the sum of eur 10 million made available to be sufficient to meet the scientific challenge posed by the virus and its neurological complications, and the need to develop diagnostic tests, vaccines and cures for the disease. finally, we know that the ema has organized a task force of experts in vaccines and infectious diseases to provide pharmaceutical companies with scientific and regulatory input for the development of drugs or vaccines against the virus. on this subject i would like to ask the commissioner where we are with the vaccine study, whether we are making progress and whether we can expect positive results in the short to medium term. as you can see, commissioner, a number of issues are being brought to the commission's attention in order to prevent, because we know very well that prevention is the best strategy to avoid damage to the health of european citizens and, above all, to reduce the possible effects of an infection such as that of the zika virus.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of this epidemic leaves many questions unanswered. there is no solid scientific basis yet to explain the connection between zika virus and microcephaly, or even between zika virus and barré syndrome. it seems clear to us that diagnostic tests are still needed to reduce the number of dengue fever misdiagnoses and it is not yet clear whether the virus can also be transmitted through sexual contact or blood transfusion. yet, with all these undeniable uncertainties, the development of the usual vaccine is proceeding, even though we know that a complete vaccine coverage would not eradicate a virus that can be transmitted, mutating from mosquito to mosquito and even though we know that the time to test it is, in any case, too long. so let's avoid further and unnecessary enrichment of these pharmaceutical companies with a vaccine that is not a response to this epidemic and instead look at alternative strategies, such as the sterile mosquito technique, that would have a real and effective effect on the spread of the virus.
member of the commission.– mr president, on behalf of the commission, i have listened very carefully to this debate. it seemed to me that there were some recurring themes, themes of urgency, of comprehensiveness, and the importance of coordination, prevention and information all playing a vitally important role. i can say, on behalf of the commission, that we will certainly take all of those into account as we continue our action to address zika in the months to come. i do believe that our experience of past epidemics and the structures that we already have in place stand us in good stead to make an effective and swift response to developments. right now, as many honourable members have stressed, we need to focus on preparing for the summer and on finding effective vaccines and medicines, both to prevent and to treat zika virus infection. so far as the question about the sum of the money that we are able to make available is concerned, one part, as i have said, is to mobilise eur 10 million from the eu budget. this call for research has been approved by the member states, is expected to be launched on 15 march and will address several knowledge gaps that we have regarding the zika virus. most importantly, it will examine the potential link of the virus with the epidemic of congenital brain malformations and other neurological complications observed across latin america and french polynesia. additionally, it will allow for diagnostics development and the testing of potential treatments and vaccines. that is going to be done in cooperation with the world health organization and other agencies, including the cdc. i think that this research should provide evidence to public health authorities on the best prevention and clinical management strategies, particularly for pregnant women, which is another of the themes that we have heard today. this call for research will be complemented by other open horizon 2020 calls on vaccine development with a budget of eur 40 million euros, on vector control infrastructures with a budget of eur 10 million and by continuing projects, including on dengue. i was asked particularly about the sterilisation of mosquitoes. my understanding is that the issue is still at the research stage, but it is one of the options on the table. so i think i am happy to pledge the commission’s full support in addressing the challenges posed by zika virus infection and raised today. we will of course want to keep parliament informed. i think that this resolution is a very important element in this debate and i would like to thank parliament for the contribution that it has made.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline.
rapporteur.– mr president, the banking union is the most important step towards a genuine emu since the introduction of the euro. a single supervision and a single resolution involves a significant transfer of responsibility from euro area member states to the european institutions. this is necessary to ensure stability and restore confidence in our banks and in order to reduce and share risks by enhancing financial integration. such a transfer or responsibility requires, however, an appropriate level of parliamentary scrutiny, of which this report represents the first concrete expression. i would like, in this regard, to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, as well as the secretariat and all the staff for their work. i also appreciate the transparent and open dialogue we had with the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the commission. the report considers the establishment of the ssm a success, both from an operational point of view and in terms of supervisory quality. at the same time we identify some problems and margins of improvement in both areas. in particular, we underline the importance of effective coordination between micro and macro-prudential policies, as the ssm is fully part of the eu macro-prudential framework, the need for stabilisation of the supervisory and regulatory framework, as well as improving the comprehension among banks of a common supervisory approach underlying the concrete individual micro-prudential measures. we stress also the need for proportionality. the markets need clarity and predictability on the setting of capital requirements; this has not been the case with the maximum distributable amount (mda) threshold. the report says that the legislation’s lack of clarity on this point should not prevent the ssm from using a margin of flexibility in order to avoid too-rigid solutions that can negatively affect the at1 bond market. for this reason, we call for a legal clarification of the mda and the function of pillar two, which is to address only ‘bank specific’ risks. we welcome the note provided yesterday by the commission in order to start the review process, and we think that the ssm should take it fully into account, in particular where it makes a distinction between pillar two capital requirements and capital guidance. we support the revision of options and national discretions in order to achieve a homogenisation of practices and standards. we make also some specific comments on some of the issues which have been put into the consultation. further steps are necessary to reinforce supervisory scrutiny of banks’ financial activity, in order to improve the capacity to look beyond credit risk to all forms of bank risks, including an in-depth analysis of financial portfolios, especially level 3 assets. the report supports the bail-in principle and its implementation. at the same time we recommend that the various choices at the disposal of the board on the basis of the eu legislation be assessed carefully, including different resolution tools as an alternative to the liquidation of the bank, and to apply always the appropriate proportionality, fairness and flexibility which is in-built in the legislative framework, keeping in mind the importance of safeguarding financial stability and maintaining confidence in the banking system. finally, the report calls for the completion of the banking union, guarantee of deposits and a common backstop. parliament welcomes the recent package from the commission, the european deposit insurance scheme (edis) proposal on the one hand and the commitment to work on risk-reduction on the other. on the former, we are working in the appropriate legislative procedure format; on the latter, it is important to emphasise that risk reduction is a broad concept which refers to a number of different possible measures. on the most controversial, related to sovereign exposures, we take note of the work of the basel committee and consider that any possible change should carefully be assessed and, in any case, should be done in the medium-terms in the framework of international bodies (basel committee on banking supervision) and should not affect the financing capacity of member states and financial stability.
let us take note of your remark.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to say to mr giegold that the german taxpayers are still very much exposed to banking risk, even with the introduction of the first two pillars, because, having failed to make the first real pillar - and i am addressing commissioner hill - a real banking separation, we still have the universal banks which can speculate on the one hand and then have the guarantee of credit and savers. this one still exists. the separation has not been made. the strong powers have been heard and so now we have a second pillar which introduces the concept of the current account as an investment. a company, say, which has more than 100 000 euros in its account to pay its employees once a month, is exposed to bail-in, that is, it can be "shaved" above 100 000 euros, provided that a solution is found for precisely this 100 000 euro, since the ecb cannot be a lender of last resort. so we're left with an extremely fragile system. we acted without thinking of the causes of banking crises but of the consequences; i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. markets are not stupid, they've figured it out. 40% off the stock as of january 1st. this is the situation we find ourselves in. and the supervision doesn't work the way we're doing it now, because we focus on credit and credit risk and not on financial products - and i'm always quoting deutsche bank and french banks that are full of derivatives. we're not going anywhere this way. the first pillar should be banking separation.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. you know, they've introduced some banking regulations? since 2013, state aid is no longer possible. four banks in italy have recently been rescued and the commission has been very strict with them. what i am wondering is why it was not as strict in its rescue of a german regional bank, hsh nordbank, which, in october, at the same time as the commission was being strict with our banks, received 3 billion in state aid from the german bank. i wanted to know if the rules apply only to mediterranean countries while germany can do whatever it wants? how do you interpret these decisions?
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask my colleague whether he thinks that in this increasingly globalised world a few very large banks are better than many small banks in a given area? what we're actually seeing is that the smaller ones in the territory are being absorbed to create bigger and bigger monsters. do you think that in economics what is happening now is better or is there another solution?
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for the debate, which i think has covered a range of issues, some of them on the banking union. i think it is worth reminding ourselves, as mr von weizsäcker did, of this question of whether the glass is half-full or half—empty. i think it is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of how far we have actually come and to think of the process, for instance, of the stress tests and the fact that our banking system is stronger, more resilient, better capitalised than it was before this work started. in terms of the question that was raised about trust, i think this lies at the heart of how we are going to be able to address the work we need to do on banking union if we are to go forward. i think that underlines the approach we have taken with the edis proposal and the associated risk reduction communication, because we are going to have to build trust and take both sides of the equation forward together. i agree with the points that were made about the importance of implementing existing legislation and honouring commitments that have already been entered into. as i said before, there is progress being made on the transposition of that regulation. we return to it regularly in the ecofin council every time we meet and the member states are nearly there with that. on the question of sovereign exposure, which was raised by mr gualtieri in his remarks, i concur with the prudent line that i think was set out in his report on possible prudential treatments of sovereign exposures. our approach should be part of a coordinated effort at the global level and that issue is currently being discussed at the economic and financial committee and in the basel committee. any future commission action would obviously be informed by those discussions. the important issue of the backstop was also raised. member states agreed on an approach for bridge financing and have agreed that there needs to be an appropriate backstop by 2024. that issue was also mentioned in our communication on risk reduction measures. with regard to the question of shadow banking, i will make a couple of points on that. firstly, the securities financing transaction regulation came into force last year and that is a big step forward for monitoring shadow banking. the mifid legislation will also play a role. i hope that we will be able to make some more progress on the money market funds file in the council where i think we have greater prospects of progress. obviously, i will stay alert to any emerging risks that there are on the shadow banking side. finally, one of the recurring themes there has been from all sides of the house is points made about proportionality and that does lie behind the thinking for having the call for evidence and wanting to look at the effect of the legislation that we have already passed, not to bring the architecture of that legislation –architecture like the banking union – into question, but to ask ourselves, as mr hayes said, whether we have got everything right and whether the legislation is working in the most effective way to encourage investment, make it possible for businesses to lend, make it possible for capital to flow to businesses that want to invest and grow. that issue of proportionality will be looked at as part of that call for evidence. it will also be looked at as part of our crr review and i think the need that we have to balance micro- and macro-prudential requirements is one that i have very much in the forefront of my mind. i am very grateful to mr gualtieri and the shadow rapporteurs for the report and for the work they have done for this debate. i look forward to future reports and i hope that we will be able to demonstrate more of the progress that i know colleagues are keen to see and that we keep up the pace on strengthening our banking system.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it was a lively debate, which touched on many aspects, and which should not, of course, make us lose sight of the fact that the main feature of the report and its fundamental purpose was to analyse in a very detailed and precise way the various aspects of the actual exercise of this first year of single supervision, to identify what worked but also what worked less well and which needs to be corrected. there are many specific proposals in this respect, as sven giegold has said, and we naturally expect the commission, the ssm, the srm - which we would also like to invite to a special meeting of the econ committee - to give us precise answers to the points we have raised. i also understand that the srep methodology, the optional and national discretion, the mda threshold - and i very much appreciate what the commission has said - the need to maintain the sme support factor are perhaps less passionate topics in a debate in the house than the great ideological disputes about bail-in, bail-out, the separation of the banks and all the other issues that we should be discussing, even though this discussion should be based on reality, on facts and a little less on ideology. so we must not lose sight of the fact that the report says that the rules must be respected but that at the same time the rules fortunately also contain the possibility of taking measures which do not have a negative effect on financial stability and this flexibility, which mr balz has mentioned, is a positive one. it is good that something is happening in germany where an institution is being set up which can prevent bail-in and in some cases even provide relief to bondholders. that's a good thing. we must welcome the intelligent use of the rules we have set ourselves, because i believe that financial stability is a primary good. it is also good to recall the facts, namely that the edis (euro-area wide deposit insurance scheme) does not provide for any use of taxpayers' money, and finally i very much welcomed the fact that the commissioner appreciated the cautious approach taken by the report to the question of sovereign debts, a question which should be dealt with only in the basle framework.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kazakhstan remains serious despite the recommendations and the trade relations. minorities continue to report harassment by police and local authorities. some opposition politicians continue to be arbitrarily detained; security service officials have been accused of systematically using torture and ill-treatment against civil society activists. the kazakh government severely restricts freedom of assembly, speech, and religion. despite numerous calls from the international community to make progress on freedom of expression, the government has passed new legislation that de facto restricts it even more. we express deep concern about the state of civil society, anti-government opponents and journalists in the country. we call on the european union, including through existing bilateral agreements, to demand that the kazakh authorities carry out effective investigations and impose appropriate sanctions on those responsible. we should not like to think that the different sensitivity we show in similar cases of human rights violations is dictated by the presence of interests which are placed on a higher plane.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the arrests and detentions of journalists and bloggers last december, in some cases just days before the signing of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and kazakhstan, which contains clear clauses on respect for human rights and freedom of the media and expression, are a very worrying signal for the european community. in addition to the recent cases that are mentioned in the text of the resolution, it seems that the kazakh authorities are also moving internationally, trying to silence media that were already banned in kazakhstan, but continue to work abroad, such as res publica, which is currently fighting legal cases initiated by kazakhstan in american courts. the frequent use of the article of the penal code on the incitement of social hatred, which is very vague and often used in the absence of valid evidence and arguments, against individuals critical of the authorities, remains of particular concern. that is why it is essential that this resolution be adopted.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as always, we are dealing with a very serious situation of gross violations of human rights. inhuman and degrading treatment, torture, an increasingly pressing denial of freedom of expression, media that are effectively controlled by administrative maneuvers, under the guise of national security. not to mention the constant harassment and intimidation of journalists who somehow try to continue doing their job, as happened for example to the newspaper adam-bol in december 2014. now, the prosecutor general in kazakhstan even has the ability to block access to internet content if it is deemed extremist and harmful to national security, even without a court ruling. in 2015, the new penal code introduced the crime of incitement to dissent, which also punishes representatives of ngos, who are effectively prevented from expressing their role in civil society. this is the picture of kazakhstan. i would now ask you, colleagues, as always, not to use double standards. as always, we must not allow our values and the defence of human rights to be sold for a cubic metre of gas or a barrel of oil, and i hope you remember this as you do in many other cases. consistency!
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, giulio regeni was a young european, a young man driven by the desire to contribute to the building of a better society, a free society. his research work has led him to tackle topics that are uncomfortable for the egyptian authorities, dangerous truths that are systematically obscured by the media and politics. his desire to give a voice to those who cannot have one led him to be brutally tortured and killed under circumstances that are still unacceptably dark. giulio regeni could have been our brother, your son or your grandson, a european boy thirsting for truth. the european union must, despite its very strong ties with egypt, take a firm and decisive stand, which will lead us to ask for clarity on the circumstances of the death of giulio regeni, because there must be no doubt that the stench of power and interests covers the stench of regeni's blood. we dedicate this sign to his friends and family. truth for giulio regeni.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of course, truth and justice for giulio regeni: i tried to ask the afet commission but i was blocked. high representative mogherini was present, but did not say a word about the regeni case. the resolution we did not sign, signed by all parties, is a bit lame: it seems to be an indictment only of this regime, which in this case has certainly been responsible for very reprehensible behaviour. but i wonder, when egypt was under morsi's leadership and those democrats from the muslim brotherhood were in power, the european union didn't raise any criticism: they were democrats, they were for freedom of the press, they were protecting human rights. well, we are tired of this ac protection of human rights and we should also say something about the attempt to involve a poor boy, a good person like regeni, in activities that were probably teleguided by research centres linked to british intelligence. but these are sensitive issues and therefore should not be discussed.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, five weeks have passed since the death of giulio regeni and every week the egyptian authorities have changed their version of this tragedy, which now has all the appearance of a political assassination carried out on the orders of the al-sisi regime against a young and courageous european researcher. in this time my government has not found the dignity to denounce this macabre mockery and the strength to act accordingly, severing many political and economic relations with the al-sisi regime, signed in the name of a common fight against terrorism. a promise that sounds grotesque coming from the mouth of a dictator who makes daily terrorism his main instrument of government. today this parliament votes an act of dignity: that's good, but it's not enough. we must stop considering freedom-threatening regimes such as al-sisi's egypt or erdogan's turkey as allies of europe and stop providing them with resources which are used to oppress their own peoples. by denying our values in this way, we are not fighting against but in favor of terrorism.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament not only condemns the torture and murder of giulio regeni but also calls for the italian authorities to be given all the documents and information necessary to conduct, together with the italian investigative authorities, a prompt, transparent and impartial investigation to establish the truth. egypt must end the practice of enforced disappearances and torture, and review the repressive protest law of november 2013, which has been used to suppress peaceful dissent. egypt must release those detained solely on grounds related to freedom of expression and guarantee the free operation of civil society organisations and independent trade unions. i want to say to you, commissioner hahn: egypt is undoubtedly an important partner for the european union. but it can't be at all costs. we cannot and will not turn a blind eye to what has happened and is happening.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the situation in egypt, which is a very important one. giulio regeni was a young researcher, a fellow italian full of hope and with his whole life ahead of him. giulio had gone to cairo to further his studies, but sadly died there after being tortured beyond words. egypt has returned the body but has not yet returned the truth and i think there is nothing in your commercial or strategic relationship that would allow us to back down in the face of the search for the truth. i believe we owe this to him, to his family, to his friends, to the community of fiumicello, his country of origin, but i also believe we owe it to the many young people who still have to believe in freedom and have to believe in the right to life, which no one can take away.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to condemn a barbaric and heinous murder, a senseless horror. we consider intolerable the attempts to mislead people within hours of their death, the ambiguities and the clumsy manoeuvres to cover up the obvious signs of cruel and unforgiving torture, which make us think of a possible internal power struggle between different state apparatuses in egypt. today we are asking egypt to demonstrate its willingness to shed light on the death of giulio regeni, to punish those who are really responsible and not those who are convenient, to put an immediate end to the very serious violations of human rights and freedom of expression and opinion, because geopolitical and energy interests cannot justify the unjustifiable, because extremist terrorism is not fought with state terror. we call on the union and the member states to share all the information they have because silence cannot be maintained at any price. today, colleagues, it is not enough to commemorate the death of julius: today we must act and demand that everyone does his part. we want truth and justice for giulius regeni. truth and justice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, egypt is an important partner of the european union, a country which is important for stability in the mediterranean area. but we cannot trade our values for commercial or political interests. the dialogue with a country like egypt is also based on the necessary and indispensable cooperation for the respect and protection of human rights. it is the duty of the european union to defend human dignity and human rights also outside the union's borders. i would have liked to have seen stronger action by the high representative, perhaps i would have liked to have seen her in this house today, as we would have liked to have seen her more active on the case of the two italians murdered in libya, as we would have liked to have seen her more active on the case of the two naval gunners unjustly detained in india. europe must make its voice heard to defend its values first and foremost.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must stand by italy in the process of shedding light on the tragic death of giulio regeni in egypt. it is necessary to reiterate, in the words of the italian foreign minister, paolo gentiloni, that no convenient truths will be accepted, truths such as those which the egyptian government is trying to promote at this hour. what happened to giulio regeni in egypt requires us all to react with determination: the european union must press for clarity on the death of the young researcher, and also for an explanation of the human rights violations committed in that country. egypt, which is also an important partner of the european union, must respect human rights and obligations in respect of freedom of expression, religion and belief. italy needs europe on its side to get to the truth about giulio regeni's death: we owe it to giulio regeni himself and to our dignity as european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that in this case, which is so serious, if europe is really a united europe, it should simply say to egypt: 'either you tell the truth about what happened to giulio regeni or we will block all development and all economic and diplomatic relations'. simply this would be enough to make egypt understand that it cannot be mocked, neither the regeni family nor regeni himself who is no more, nor an entire continent waiting for answers while the egyptian government continues to give very different and contradictory versions of them. that's enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that europe's credibility is at stake. the credibility of truth-telling, of protecting a process of inquiry and investigation which is not yet independent and an investigation which is not guaranteed, is at stake. so we are here to urge that words be turned into deeds, that words be made the condition of being able to give transparency to a death, to a tragedy of a young man, giulio regeni, who was looking for his identity belonging to a system that was different from the one he had lived. so we strongly believe that high representative mogherini must guarantee this transparency, this truth. we believe that our italian government must first of all implement the condition of suspending trade relations at this time, because the verification and investigation of the truth is a priority over any other issue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, truth and justice for giulio regeni is a duty, a commitment, a necessary quest for all the european institutions. we must be sure that no european economic entity is involved in the surveillance, punishment and torture which unfortunately is taking place in the country in question, egypt. we have a situation of repeated violations of human rights, which our joint resolution recalls, as does our commitment to combat this situation with all our strength, all our commitment. i believe that a figure like giulio regeni should make us think, make us discuss, especially the younger people, the young people who are involved in politics and who want to change the world. i think that giulio himself, with his research, with his studies, tried to change things. he cannot have paid with his life for this search for the truth.
member of the commission.– madam president, i think we share the same view and we were all shocked at the discovery of giulio regeni’s dead body on 3 february in cairo after he disappeared on 25 january. the torture and death of this young italian phd student in cairo is not only a personal tragedy for all who knew him, but an unacceptable tragedy for the entire european union, for the institutions and for the people. i think this has been expressed by all the speakers today. vice-president/high representative mogherini has personally raised giulio regeni’s murder twice with egyptian foreign minister shoukry and stressed the need to conduct a thorough independent and transparent investigation in close cooperation with the italian authorities in order to shed full light on the circumstances and to bring the perpetrators to justice. the case was also raised by the eeas and commission officials in cairo during bilateral talks with the egyptian authorities in february. the high representative and the external action service are following this case in close cooperation and consultation with the italian government. the european union attaches great importance to the protection and promotion of human rights in each and every country, egypt included. to mention just one other recent example, we made a number of interventions over attempts to close down the el nadim centre which treats torture victims. the protection and promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law are guiding principles of the union’s external action and policies. in 2015 the european union revived bilateral relations with egypt in the framework of the accession agreement which had been on hold since 2010. the objective was to re-engage across key areas including democracy and human rights and to establish cooperation in fields of mutual interest. in november last year in cairo we resumed the political and human rights dialogue with egypt, the first such meeting for five years. the commission and eeas officials maintain regular contact with civil society organisations and human rights organisation and defenders, and vice-president/high representative mogherini made the point of meeting these organisations in her visit to cairo four months ago. we are also currently working with eu member states on a statement on the human rights situation in egypt to be delivered at the un human rights council on 15 march in geneva. the european union special representative is planning to visit the country in the coming months so as to continue engaging actively with egypt on human rights matters. i can assure you that we will continue to do what we can, together with the italian authorities, to ensure that the full truth comes out, and that those responsible for giulio regeni’s brutal torture and murder will face justice, but we are also working to prevent such unacceptable prejudice in the future. we will continue to call for and support a full implementation of the 2014 constitution, reforms in the area of governance and rule of law and progress in the human rights situation in view of the aspirations of the egyptian people for democracy and stability. may i add that we are, in the course of our cooperation and work with egypt, ready to support civil society organisations, in particular addressing all these issues working for democracy in the country, and this is one of the targets of our policy in and with egypt.
in writing. let me first express my closeness to the family of giulio regeni. the murder of the young italian researcher is an event that strikes us with its drama, an event on which we cannot afford to accept half-truths or easy answers. the egyptian authorities have a duty to cooperate with the italian investigators in order to shed light on this sad event, the latest case in a long list of abuses and violations reported on several occasions by various ngos active on egyptian territory. transparent and independent investigations must be able to ensure justice for this case of unacceptable violence. a peaceful stabilization of the political situation in egypt cannot be achieved by practices which deny the core of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the prohibition of torture and the assertion of the rule of law are among the values which best express the very essence of european reality. a prosperous and stable egypt will only be achieved through a transition that embraces respect for fully democratic values. european action must therefore move strongly in this direction and in this sense i have signed the motion which we shall be voting on shortly.
in writing. the murder of giulio regeni brings to light all the flaws and dark sides of a country that claims to be democratic. egypt's 2014 constitution, which enshrines fundamental rights and freedoms for its citizens, is constantly confronted with the reality of arbitrary detentions (22,000 since july 2013), torture of government opponents, and threats against the el nadim center, a rehabilitation center for victims of violence, targeted with false arguments calling for its closure. the case of giulio regeni is part of this framework of violations of fundamental human rights for which egypt is responsible, in breach of article 2 of the association agreement with the eu. i believe that the european union, through the high representative, must act urgently and firmly, in concert with the member states and the egyptian authorities, to make it clear what happened to our young compatriot and what is still happening in the country. i also think that we must not allow any attempt to intercept and punish those responsible for certain terrible events and to urge the egyptian government to ensure that it can operate freely in the country, following the path set out in the agreements with the union.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the democratic republic of congo we are facing a serious political crisis and a serious threat to democracy, represented by president kabila's attempts to delay the electoral process in order to extend his term of office. these dictatorial tendencies are in clear violation of the constitution and the rights recognized in the congo. we are talking about a country which is emblematic of the inconsistency of the european union's external action. it is also the country most helped by the european union and the richest in the world in terms of natural resources: i am not going to go into the details of the situation in the democratic republic of congo. we must demand that the constitution be respected and that the recommendations of the last electoral mission be followed, so that there are free elections without kabila's dreaded third term. we must also demand that the human rights defender, christopher ngoyi, who is unjustly detained, be released and receive proper medical treatment, even outside the congo, because he is seriously ill.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the whole country will have to show that it respects its constitution, including the provisions on the rotation of the presidency, which limits the number of presidential terms to two. the government must urgently draw up and officialise an electoral calendar in strict compliance with the constitutional provisions. we also remind the authorities in the drc of the need to respect freedom of the press, association and expression. these are the minimum values of democracy. this end of president joseph kabila's term is fundamental for democracy in the drc, and will have a strong impact on the future and stability of the whole of central africa. finally, i call for the immediate release of political prisoners who are guilty of defending the fundamental principles of their constitution, and i call on the african union to support this process towards freedom and respect for the congolese constitution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i voted against the additional duty-free importation into the european union of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil, because it is a wrong choice which does not help tunisian producers, increases the risk of fraud to the detriment of european consumers and harms italian producers, especially those from apulia who are already suffering from the xylella problem. today's sudden green light from parliament comes after imports of tunisian olive oil to italy increased by 481% in 2015. the new preferential quota will be added to the current 56 700 tonnes at zero duty already provided for in the eu-tunisia association agreement, thus bringing the total of preferential arrivals above the 90 000 quota. the real risk is that this will only encourage the proliferation of fraud, misleading consumers about the origin of the product and encouraging unfair competition against quality producers. i am not questioning the european union's support for the tunisian economy but the way in which it is given. the european union must support the democratization process in tunisia in every way possible, but it cannot be our oil producers who pay for it.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean agreement regulates relations between the eu and tunisia, establishing economic and financial cooperation with respect for human rights. however, the terrorist attack near sousse, tunisia, on 26 june 2015 prompted member states to adopt exceptional and temporary measures to support the tunisian economy, which was severely damaged by those events. for these reasons, the import of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian oil duty-free was authorised for the years 2016 and 2017, thus causing enormous damage to the italian economy and agriculture. i therefore decided to vote against, considering that such a derogation from the import rules, for such a long period of time, would seriously damage one of the assets of the italian economy, which is already badly affected by the economic crisis and the xylella disease.
in writing. ‒ olive oil is the main agricultural product exported by tunisia to the european union and a key sector for the country's economy. the proposal for a regulation adopted today by parliament was intended to introduce some autonomous emergency trade measures to facilitate the entry of 70 000 tonnes of tunisian oil without increasing the overall volume of imports. i have decided to vote against this measure because i am convinced that these measures do not help the producers in the maghreb country. while i am aware of the fragility of the economic and social situation in tunisia, i believe that the union must help the country with a broader political commitment that can consolidate the democratic process initiated by tunisia without putting consumers and citizens of the union at risk. the import of tunisian oil opens up the european market to a greater risk of fraud, threatening to generate unfair competition which can harm quality producers.
in writing. ‒ this measure is scandalous and will have devastating consequences for italian oil producers and for made in italy. it is yet another eu folly, a decision that goes against our producers and consumers themselves: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the olive oil sector. i have spoken against the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to import an additional 70 000 tonnes of tunisian oil into the eu at zero duty for the 2016-2017 biennium. tunisia is a key player for stability in the north african region and it is in the common interest to support its economic recovery and democratic transition. however, to provide concrete support, appropriate means must be used, capable of producing tangible benefits for the tunisian population, and not counterproductive for european production. my vote today follows a process which has been under way in recent weeks with some members of the s&d group, and in particular the pd delegation, to improve the proposal. we have succeeded in passing the obligation of traceability and the exclusion of extensions to the measure. i believe, however, that the text, without the other improvements we have put forward, remains highly problematic for honest european producers and, ultimately, for consumers, increasing the risk of fraud at the expense of the guarantee of 'made in'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is the european union's duty to support tunisia's transition to democracy by all means possible. i believe that the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia will provide tangible support for the tunisian economy and make regime change, whether military or religious, less attractive to the tunisian people. tunisia is the only country where the arab spring has achieved satisfactory results. it is in everyone's interest that the achievements made should not be undone.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is undoubtedly a country whose democratic path needs to be supported and encouraged. however, i am against this measure because it does not really help the tunisians, it penalizes our producers and it certainly does not favour consumers.
in writing. - i vote strongly against it. this measure is the result of a personal intervention by the high representative mogherini, with the aim of helping the tunisian economy, which has been hit by the crisis in the tourism sector following the recent terrorist attacks. what the european commission is therefore proposing is to allow the further entry into the eu of a zero-tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil. it is clear that the price of this 'aid' would be paid only by certain member states (italy, spain, greece and partly france), while for most it would be a zero-impact measure. moreover, this intervention would only favour the multinationals of the fake 'made in italy' who bring huge quantities of olive oil to the union market which looks italian but is only partly italian when it is good.
in writing. ‒ i have reaffirmed my vote against the legislative resolution on the extraordinary aid measures for tunisia, because i believe that the elimination of customs duties on the import of tunisian olive oil could harm a sector already severely affected by the consequences of the continuing economic crisis. in its first plenary vote on 25 february, parliament had succeeded in amending part of the proposal in order to limit the impact of the agreement on european production, particularly italian production. it was a clear and unequivocal position which had given the no's courage and hope that the council could find the conditions for a change of course. there is no doubt that aid to third countries is part of the european union's missions and that measures to accompany the process of democratization and stabilization in the mediterranean area must be taken, but the attempt to help one country in difficulty is risking damaging others. we hope that a debate will soon be opened on the recognition of compensatory measures for those states most exposed to losses of market shares.
in writing. ‒ as before, i have stressed my opposition to the resolution which seeks to introduce emergency measures for tunisia, which would allow the import of 70 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil to be tax-free for two years, which would further damage the situation of small oil producers in several european countries, particularly in italy. we do not want to question the desire to help another country, which is also strategically important for europe, but we cannot accept the fact that it is always the small producers in italy and/or the countries of southern europe who fail. we must be able to find different solutions to show solidarity with third countries without creating disadvantages for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the second time and again strongly against the abolition of the duties on tunisian oil. i did so because i was struck by the comments of several tunisian ngos who said that the measures were insufficient and unable to produce positive effects for the agricultural sector and the economic situation in general. i also did so because i believe that the final resolution is a blow to small producers: the structural nature of the measure is such that it is likely to help only large-scale industry by strengthening the industry lobbies. the failure to adopt important amendments has prevented all the doubts and uncertainties raised by the measure from being dispelled. the final resolution is hasty and lacks analysis, fails to respond to the need for support of the tunisian people and penalizes a part of our productive fabric. that is why i have decided to vote against the measure once again.
in writing. ‒ i am absolutely opposed to the report which allows tunisian oil to enter europe with negative consequences, especially for italian producers.
in writing. today we are called upon to vote on a report which provides for aid to the tunisian economy through community emergency measures which will allow the importation of 70 000 tonnes of tunisian extra virgin olive oil duty-free in 2001 and 2016. we have been working on this decision for many months, which i think is wrong, and i am against the agreement. it should be stressed, however, that our intervention has improved the text compared with the original text of the european commission. i voted against because i believe that the eu must change its approach, because we cannot think of helping outside countries by harming our economy or part of it. and in this case i do not think there is any real help for tunisia either. i ask the european commission to monitor the implementation of the agreement to prevent fraud and counterfeiting, and to proceed as soon as possible with the recognition of compensatory measures for our olive growers, such as the recognition of the pgi mark for sicilian extra virgin olive oil.
in writing. ‒ increasing the quota for oil imports from tunisia is the worst way to help the north african country. the oil companies are trying, with great difficulty, to get out of not only the continuing economic crisis, but also the xylella emergency. this measure will have devastating consequences for the whole sector and for these reasons i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ given the need for the eu to help boost the tunisian economy at an undoubtedly difficult time, this seems to me to be an appropriate decision, but it must be borne in mind that the union's solidarity is solidarity at the expense of southern european farmers who currently constitute that part of the market which has been fragile for some time. the importation of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil from tunisia duty free, if it does not help the tunisian economy much, certainly harms the italian economy, with a collapse in prices and an increase in fraud and consumer damage. the price to be paid will therefore be the highest in the south and its regions. for this reason, as a member of the european parliament, but above all as an italian citizen, i am voting against this report, so that a better solution can be found, such as direct financial support, rather than penalizing the entire olive industry.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposes the introduction of a tariff-free quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for two years for tunisian olive oil exports to the union. i understand the eu's desire to help boost the tunisian economy at a difficult time for our allies, but i do not think that the union's solidarity should come at the expense of southern european farmers, in the specific case of olive oil producers. the latter have already been severely affected during 2015 by certain diseases affecting their crops. solidarity with tunisia could be demonstrated through funding for the police or investments in the field of culture and youth training. but once again, it's the farmers of the south who will have to pay. i voted against the introduction of these autonomous emergency trade measures and i will continue to work to ensure that europe does not make mistakes of this kind in the future.
in writing. ‒ i reiterated my vote against the duty-free import of 35,000 tonnes of olive oil from tunisia for two years. this decision will force our producers to face unfair competition, since tunisian oil will be placed on the market at prices lower than those of quality italian oil. this is certainly a serious mistake which unfortunately is likely to have a serious impact on the whole european and italian olive sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure authorising the duty-free import of an additional quota of oil from tunisia for the next two years, as this is a solidarity measure that makes a concrete contribution to the tunisian economy, which has been seriously weakened after the terrorist attacks of 2015. tunisia is the only country that has steadily moved towards democracy since the 2011 revolutions, and the economic crisis risks weakening it under the looming threat of radical propaganda and terrorist infiltration. thanks to the work done, the measure has been significantly improved with safeguards that meet the concerns expressed by operators in the sector to protect european olive growing: the traceability of the imported product (the oil must come entirely from tunisia, to ensure that the measure is actually helping the tunisian economy and to prevent fraud) and the evaluation of the measure after the first year, to verify its impact on the european market and to make any corrective measures to protect our producers. it is not by denying concrete aid to a fragile economy such as that of tunisia that the interests of european farmers are served, but by making concrete commitments on other fronts such as the promotion of typical products, the protection of quality, traceability and the fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ i said no to the european commission's proposal to allow the duty-free entry into the eu of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian oil per year for two years. tunisia must be helped in its transition process, but not at the expense of italian and european olive oil producers. the community's position on the question of the status of the oil industry in the community is that it is not possible to determine the exact position of the oil industry in the community. this means that it will remain in the eu and will drive down the price of oil, harming producers in mediterranean countries, who are already suffering from the eu's austerity policies. i am surprised that italy and the other mediterranean countries of the eu have not opposed and renegotiated the measure in the council. during the february plenary session, i voted in favour of several amendments which made it necessary to renegotiate the agreement in the eu council. we hope that in the next elections, both for national politicians and for the european parliament, the olive growers of italy and mediterranean europe will remember the names of the ministers and meps who have damaged their interests.
in writing. to help tunisia, which is in a difficult economic situation, the european commission has proposed to provide substantial support to the olive oil sector to help it recover. this is a trade measure providing for the duty-free importation of 70 000 tonnes of product over two years. olive oil is the main agricultural product that tunisia exports to the eu: in 2015, imports from tunisia increased by 600% and fraud in the oil sector quadrupled in the same year. seizures and judicial investigations throughout italy show that there is a correlation between increased imports and counterfeiting. the union's solidarity is once again solidarity at the expense of the farmers of southern europe. olive oil is an important factor of economic and social support in the producing areas, including italy. europe is thus siding with the multinationals who are interested in selling oil at low cost. this is jeopardizing the survival of many small farmers and landowners in italy who will now suffer the collapse of their oil prices. the 5 star movement is fighting alongside italian farmers: i had no choice but to vote for the rejection of the proposal altogether.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the grossetête report on the proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products. medicinal products for animals are important tools which require particularly complex processing due to the multiplicity of existing species. legislative action in this area must take account of two aspects, firstly the need to simplify legislation as much as possible and secondly to address the serious issue of the increase in antimicrobial resistance. the development of resistant bacteria must not only involve a limitation of the use of antimicrobials, but above all an investment in innovation that will allow research in this field to be strengthened. the who has already warned of the risks to the health and lives of millions of people that could result from the emergence of a post-antibiotic era. europe must do its part by stopping mass treatment and ensuring that the prophylactic use of antibiotics is limited to cases where it is really justified.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report voted today, which marks an important step forward in the fight against antibiotic resistance, through a more limited and responsible use of existing antimicrobials and the development of new medicines. the text aims to update european legislation on veterinary medicinal products, excluding antibiotic treatment practices for purely preventive or collective purposes, and encouraging research and development of new quality medicines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of antibiotics is not restricted to the use of certain medicinal products. the new regulation aims to facilitate access to such medicines within the union by creating more favourable conditions for their circulation, including through improved authorisation procedures, more effective pharmacovigilance and reduced administrative burdens. this encourages a more deliberate and regulated use of medicines, which can in no case replace good farming practices and must be administered only after a careful assessment by the veterinarian, thereby enhancing the protection of animal health, human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the provision is useful to improve access to medicines, particularly in the veterinary sector, where there is a shortage of medicines in many market areas. the main objectives of the provision are to improve access to and availability of medicines, particularly for species improperly described as 'minor'; to reduce administrative burdens, in particular as regards the pharmacovigilance process; stimulate innovation and competitiveness in the sector; ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for veterinary medicinal products; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
in writing. - i vote against it. the new regulation sets out to separate the rules governing the authorization and placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products from those governing medicinal products for human use. this certainly brings greater clarity. however, the final vote cannot be favourable on the substance for the following essential reasons: the entry into the food chain of animals in clinical trials is not completely avoided; medicinal products containing gmos are allowed (articles 297 and 131 tend to prohibit them). persons other than veterinarians are also entitled to prescribe veterinary medicinal products; the online sale of prescription medicinal products is also allowed; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation which sets out a regulatory framework specifically designed for the specific characteristics of the veterinary sector. the existing legal framework has been a source of implementation problems, in particular with regard to the shortage of veterinary medicinal products, the functioning of the internal market, the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance, the lack of incentives to support innovation, and the administrative burdens imposed. the proposal adopted today addresses all these shortcomings. the question of antibiotic resistance is saying something that is increasingly worrying: each year, the average meat consumer unknowingly ingests nearly 9 grams of antibiotics (the equivalent of four courses). the responsible use of antibiotics which are important for human medicine, such as fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins, in veterinary medicinal products should therefore be further promoted. the widespread use of these two substances in livestock to combat common infections contributes to the spread of antimicrobial resistance. i think that where no disease has been diagnosed, the administration of antimicrobials for preventive or prophylactic purposes should be prohibited.
in writing. ‒ while the fundamental objective of the industry is to achieve a single market for veterinary medicines, the main objective of m5s europe is to safeguard animal welfare, increase the availability of veterinary medicines across europe and, above all, to move from a culture of mass animal care to a culture where animals are given individual care as humans are. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the legal framework in the veterinary sector has always been a source of problems in its implementation, in particular with regard to the shortage of veterinary medicines (especially for smaller markets), the administrative burdens imposed, the functioning of the internal market and, of course, the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance. for these reasons, the commission proposal lays the foundations for a complete overhaul of the legislation on veterinary medicinal products, currently based on directive 2001/82/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004, and is intended to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their life cycle, as well as the related pharmacovigilance process. i think it is fundamentally in the right direction, both in its objectives and in its desire to make a clear distinction between the market for veterinary medicinal products and that for medicinal products for human use. i agree with the rapporteur's comments and amendments and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission has called for the establishment of rules on veterinary medicinal products from the moment of manufacture to the time of placing on the market, including the moment of import, export and control, in order to pursue the objective of improving the functioning of the internal market, reducing administrative burdens, stimulating competitiveness and innovation and increasing the availability of veterinary medicinal products. the european regulatory framework for veterinary medicinal products must be adapted to scientific progress and must protect animals, seeking to minimise their suffering and ensuring their welfare. since many of our requests have been accepted and since i consider this to be a matter of considerable importance, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in september 2014, the commission published its new proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicines. the directive lays the foundations for a complete overhaul of the legislation on veterinary medicinal products and is intended to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products throughout their life cycle. among the objectives identified by the commission, emphasis should be placed on combating antibiotic resistance and promoting innovation and competitiveness in the sector. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to make a clear distinction between the market for veterinary medicinal products and that for medicinal products for human use, ensuring the availability of products and promoting administrative simplification, without sacrificing the essential objectives of public health and environmental protection.
in writing. the plenary today dismissed an important text and i would like to thank mr grossetête for the excellent work he has done in recent months. the main objective of the text is to protect animal health and, consequently, human health. it aims to combat antibiotic resistance while increasing the competitiveness of our farms and the veterinary industries. the role of the veterinarian is given a prominent place, the importance of his work and professionalism is emphasised, without reducing the therapeutic arsenal at his disposal. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of medicines which are still being placed on the market without authorisation. it also lays the foundations for a new pharmacovigilance system that will be more flexible, more effective and less bureaucratic.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products. the availability of such effective and affordable medicinal products at reasonable prices is essential to expand the scope of research and development, increase the production of veterinary medicinal products and their viability in the internal market. clear and as simple as possible legislation is therefore needed to improve access to medicines, reduce administrative burdens, stimulate competitiveness and innovation, so that new and better medicines for the treatment and prevention of animal diseases are available, while avoiding damage to the environment.
in writing. ‒ antibiotic resistance poses a real threat to our health, especially for animals that eat meat. for this reason i am glad that this report calls for a collection of detailed data at the level of the member states, which must be at the forefront of solving these problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation voted today, which lays the foundations for a revision of the existing legislation on veterinary medicines. the objectives set out in the report relate to access to and availability of such medicines, innovation and development of new generation medicines, the proper functioning of the internal market for veterinary medicines, the reduction of administrative burdens and antibiotic resistance. on this last point, i think it is important to stress that the proposal regulates the limited use of antimicrobials: the prophylactic use of antibiotics as a preventive measure should only be implemented if fully justified by a veterinarian, and therefore not to improve performance or compensate for inadequate husbandry practices. the european centre for disease prevention and control has released worrying data showing that bacteria in humans, food and animals continue to show resistance to the most common antimicrobials, with the consequence that bacteria such as salmonella continue to proliferate throughout europe. i think it is essential that we invest more and better in research and innovation to develop new medicines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which updates the european rules on the subject in order to protect animal and human health while protecting the environment. the text voted today adds another important aspect to the commission's proposal, which focuses on the availability of veterinary medicines and administrative simplification, while respecting public health and protecting the environment, namely the fight against antibiotic resistance. we in parliament are calling for the preventive use of antibiotics in farmed animals to be restricted, that is to say, antibiotics should not be used as a preventive measure and in the absence of clinical signs of infection, or even as a means of improving the performance of farming. as recently reported by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), bacteria in humans, food and animals continue to show resistance to the most common antimicrobials, thus reducing options for effective treatment of serious infections. it is therefore necessary for humans and animals to have a clear overview of the use of all antimicrobial medicinal products as soon as possible so that action can be taken without delay to reduce misuse and end abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, albeit from a particular perspective: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of veterinary medicines, such as the introduction of a new system of veterinary checks on animals. i particularly welcome the elimination of the administration of antibiotics to farmed animals for prophylactic or metaphylactic purposes. antibiotics are not a substitute for decent living conditions for animals, although farmers too often use them precisely to save on management costs and to increase yields. the massive and routine administration of antibiotics to farm animals is linked to the increasing emergence of antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria, with serious consequences for human health. antibiotics have saved the lives of the general public at least a couple of times: it would be foolish to let them become increasingly ineffective in exchange for a few cheap steaks.
in writing. ‒ the union regulatory framework for the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products is currently set out in directive 2001/82/ec and the subsequent regulation (ec) no 726/2004 which established the european medicines agency (ema). the commission presented in september 2014 a draft to bring together the veterinary medicines legislation into a single instrument, repealing the 2001 directive and amending the 2004 regulation. the tănăsescu report, which i supported with my vote, welcomed the commission's proposal but correctly highlighted the need to involve parliament in the ema's tariff-setting procedure. it is essential that the full co-decision procedure be used in this area, in accordance with the provisions on pharmacovigilance.
in writing. ‒ while i appreciate the commission's effort to make the rules governing medicines clearer, distinguishing between those for veterinary use and those for human use, i do not agree with the excessive extension of the powers of the european medicines agency. that is why i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the text adopted today, which accompanies the new regulation on veterinary medicinal products, aims to improve the procedure for placing such products on the union market by separating it from that for medicinal products for human use. i particularly appreciate that, as requested by the envi committee, the report provides for the full participation of the european parliament in the activities of the european medicines agency, while preserving its role as co-decision-maker in the definition of the level and structure of the agency's fees, which remains responsible for the evaluation, surveillance and pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human and veterinary use.
in writing. ‒ in september 2014, following an assessment of the functioning of the internal market in this area, the commission published a proposal to bring together the rules on veterinary medicinal products into a single veterinary medicinal product regulation, repealing and replacing directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products and amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004. this is useful in order to remove all references to veterinary medicinal products and thus to completely separate the provisions governing veterinary medicinal products from those governing medicinal products for human use. it is desirable that the union's work should be directed towards increasing the competitiveness of pharmaceutical companies, with the resulting beneficial effects on prices and availability of access to medicines.
in writing. - i vote against it. the commission has proposed to separate completely the provisions governing veterinary medicinal products from those governing medicinal products for human use. this separation is welcome, as it contributes to greater clarity of the legislative framework. in this case, the commission simply proposed to abolish all regulatory references to veterinary medicinal products, which are transferred to a new ad hoc regulation (see the grossetête report). unfortunately, the envi committee took the opportunity to 'communitize' the definition of the fees due to the ema, including the collection procedures, by replacing the implementing acts with an ordinary legislative procedure (see paragraph 31). in addition to being impractical, this appears to be a subtle extension of the ema's powers. the amendments also aim to centralise the authorisation process for veterinary medicinal products at eu level by creating a dedicated division within the ema.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation to protect public health in the european union and to ensure that centralised marketing authorisation for veterinary medicinal products is separated from that for medicinal products for human use. i would stress that, in the interest of public health, authorisation decisions taken under the centralised procedure should be taken on the basis of objective scientific criteria of quality, safety and efficacy as provided for in directives 2001/83/ec and 2001/82/ec. for medicinal products authorised in the union, provision should be made for the risk-benefit assessment of all medicinal products to take place both at the time of placing on the market, at the time of renewal of the authorisation and at any other time deemed appropriate by the competent authority. in order to improve the knowledge and understanding of antimicrobial resistance, the european medicines agency (ema) should publish annually, in cooperation with the european food safety authority (efsa) and the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), a report on the use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine, as well as on the current situation of antimicrobial resistance in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, ms tănăsescu, proposed improvements that could be shared, in particular on the structure and level of fees charged to the european medicines agency and on the fact that the remuneration for the competent national authorities should not be fixed by means of a mere implementing act. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the union regulatory framework for the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products consisted of directive 2001/82/ec of the european parliament and of the council laying down a community code relating to veterinary medicinal products and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council establishing community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. the commission proposes that the rules on veterinary medicinal products be combined into a single veterinary regulation, which would repeal and replace directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products. i voted in favour of this reform because it will lead to a separation between the provisions governing veterinary medicinal products and those governing medicinal products for human use and will therefore bring simplification and consistency.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the resolution is to amend regulation (ec) no 726/2004 establishing community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. in 2014, the commission published a proposal to bring together all the rules on veterinary medicinal products into a single regulation, with the aim of completely separating the provisions governing veterinary medicinal products from those governing medicinal products for human use. the proposal therefore aims to delete from regulation no 726/2004 the provisions on the granting and maintenance of marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products, to lay down certain principles applicable to the fees of the european medicines agency and to align the implementing powers conferred on the commission under the 2004 regulation. i am in favour of this proposal because i share the improvements which will be made in the resolution on medicinal products for human and veterinary use.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite some positive steps, there is an attempt to centralize the authorisation process for veterinary medicines too much.
in writing. ‒ today's vote is a first step towards changing the process by which medicines are approved at european level and in particular towards drastically reducing the time between the marketing authorisation of a new medicine and the decisions of individual countries on reimbursement. the current procedure creates very marked differences in the timing of access to new medicines, because the same medicinal product is assessed for its efficacy 28 times, once for each member state, although always on the basis of the same data. in some cases, it has taken up to ten years for innovative, life-saving drugs, even those deemed essential by the world health organization, to be actually used and reimbursed. so i really hope that this first step will point us in a new direction to overcome these difficulties.
in writing. the new veterinary medicines regulation covers all the procedures for granting marketing authorisations for veterinary medicines in the union, both at central and national level. the new measures will clearly take account of the specificities of the veterinary sector. the present proposal for an amendment is to be linked to the needs of the veterinary sector which, with regard to medicinal products, are substantially different from those of the human sector. i supported the text because it took account in a balanced way of the different needs to be protected in this sensitive area.
in writing. ‒ the role of the parliament and the european institutions in monitoring what we eat is paramount. the european institutions have always guaranteed high food standards and this report aims to reduce the amount of antibiotics we ingest when eating meat from medically treated animals as well as combating antibiotic resistance. the report's contribution to a new regulation laying down procedures for the authorisation, supervision and distribution of veterinary medicinal products suggests, for example, that the online sale of veterinary antibiotics be phased out and preventive care restricted, while supporting the exchange of best practices and research and innovation in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it amends certain rules on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use in order to completely separate the two areas of regulation. it is clear that the needs of the veterinary sector are substantially different from those of the human sector in relation to medicinal products. the proposal will therefore repeal directive 2001/82/ec and amend regulation (ec) no 726/2004 in order to remove all references to the granting and maintenance of authorisations for veterinary medicinal products and to take account of the specific needs of each sector. the new veterinary medicines regulation will therefore regulate all procedures for the authorisation of veterinary medicines in the union, both at central and national level.
in writing. ‒ the big data market is expanding at an unstoppable speed. it is estimated that over 50 billion in revenue and 16 billion terabytes of data will flow by 2020. the resolution points out that a data-driven economy can be harmonized and properly integrated with privacy-oriented data management. finally, the network, data and the internet can be used in tandem to foster open, transparent and inclusive government. in addition, initiatives to include programming and data processing subjects in national curricula are encouraged, highlighting the many benefits of free software in education. in order to promote the digital economy and the digitisation of the european states, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ big data represents one of the great opportunities of the 21st century; this is an opportunity that, according to the latest estimates, should generate a €50 billion market by 2017 with the potential to create jobs for 3.75 million people. the recovery of growth, innovation and investment can only happen through a digital single market strategy based on the development of a strong economy able to exploit the enormous amount of information produced every day. my vote in favour of the resolution tabled in parliament today is based on my deep conviction that big data is a huge opportunity that still needs to be exploited. from industry 4.0 to mhealth, from the theme of smart cities to e-government, the new technological frontier requires the development of advanced skills that can foster job growth. the issue of the intelligent exploitation of opportunities is also linked to that of data protection. in an increasingly connected world, the protection of privacy is a priority to be ensured and it is therefore essential to develop an appropriate and uniform european legal framework in this area.
in writing. ‒ the report is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the union's big data strategy aims to support and accelerate the transition to a digital single market in europe and, ultimately, to a european digital union based on more effective and fully regulated use of data. the potential benefits of an increasingly digitised economy, based on a growing stimulus to innovation and investment in r&d, are many and varied and concern businesses, public administrations and private citizens, and consequently bring significant benefits to society as a whole. the challenge of this important transition also presents more sensitive issues, which deserve to be dealt with with due attention, as underlined in the resolution voted today. the development of a data-driven economy cannot be achieved without providing for and maintaining the highest safeguards for the content of data, the guarantee of confidentiality of the most sensitive information and certainty and transparency about the processing of data. the use of data must therefore be regulated in a timely manner, according to precise and shared standards, which also allow fair opportunities for companies in their use, especially as regards smes. data protection and the opportunities arising from integrated data use should therefore not be mutually exclusive but complementary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that the role that big data will play in the near future will be fundamental for the growth of the economies of the continent and that they have considerable potential in terms of economic growth. it is the responsibility of the union and the member states to ensure that this opportunity is not lost.
in writing. - i vote for it. apologising for the progressive virtues of big data, where the benefits (competitiveness, productivity, employment, economic growth, etc.) of the future digital union, which will be wisely governed by the commission, are of course much more important than the risks (privacy, democratic control, ethics, fundamental freedoms, etc.).
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'towards a thriving data-based economy' because, as the author of numerous questions, speeches and statements on the development of the internet and the use of big data to modernise the economy and public health, i consider the internet to be the real challenge of universal services, to ensure public services with ever higher standards. it should be stressed, however, that greater protection of personal data is needed, greater respect for the charter of fundamental rights, because only defined rules generate a positive social and cultural impact and create the digital single market, with a level playing field for businesses and security for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which states that a florida economy should be harmonised and properly integrated with privacy-oriented data management.
in writing. ‒ a thriving data-driven economy can be an opportunity for growth and jobs, enabling new business models or new services, as well as increasing productivity. based on the estimated growth rate of the big data market to 2017 totalling eur 50 billion and the international data corporation (idc) forecast for the global market for big data technology and related services for the period 2013-2017, this sector could lead to the creation of 3,75 million new jobs by 2017 under the public-private partnership with big data value; i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ data volumes are growing at an unprecedented rate and it is estimated that by 2020 there will be 16 000 billion gigabytes of data. this growth of the big data market will have positive effects in terms of productivity and competitiveness and will create new opportunities for consumers, businesses, government, science and medicine. the european parliament resolution promotes this kind of data-driven economy and puts it at the heart of europe's digital single market strategy. i voted in favour of all measures to promote a data-driven economy because i believe it can help europe regain competitiveness in advanced sectors and accelerate investment in growth and innovation; however, i believe that it will be very important to develop a harmonised regulatory framework which guarantees access to data in compliance with data protection principles.
in writing. ‒ big data is an essential part of the ongoing transformation towards a digital single market. an innovative sector that could boost the european economy, with the benefits estimated at 1.9 per cent of overall gdp growth by 2020, new jobs and innovative services for citizens. in particular, as suggested in the resolution i voted for today, the union will have to define and develop an e-government strategy that makes effective use of big data and open data, so that public administrations can personalise and qualify their services to citizens, and improve the provision of essential information for business and smes. in the process of defining a competitive and future-oriented regulatory environment capable of promoting technological progress and innovation, in particular in public administrations, the union will need to be firm in ensuring an adequate level of data protection and dissemination. this will be the key to unlocking the invaluable potential of big data, while respecting one of our fundamental principles, namely the protection of the privacy of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'towards a thriving data-driven economy' because i believe that big data is a key issue for the future of the eu and the digital single market. the data-driven economy can be key to putting europe's technological know-how to good use, recovering lost competitiveness, creating jobs and digitising young people. however, in order to have such an effect, i believe it is essential that the legislation strikes the right balance with regard to the issues of the processing of personal data, the transparency of their use and the protection of privacy. i share parliament's call for europe to have the network infrastructure, such as broadband, needed to develop a data-driven economy, and i consider the public-private partnership instrument to be very important. i believe that the data economy also requires the development of entrepreneurship, and it is therefore essential to involve smes, start-ups and the research community in order to innovate ever more in the technologies and services offered. finally, i appreciate the reference to the issue of raising awareness and involving society and public opinion in relation to the issues of new technologies, the sharing economy and the digital market.
in writing. according to the international data corporation (idc) forecast for the global market for big data technology and related services for the period 2013-2017, the growth rate of the big data market until 2017 will be six times faster than the global ict market. the development of big data is an integral part of a new digital market and will ensure the development of innovative and competitive business models. i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution because a data-driven economy is a unique opportunity for growth and jobs. for businesses, data is a valuable resource, and its value is enhanced by developing innovative and intelligent ways of doing so, while respecting privacy laws.
in writing. ‒ i welcome increased investment in a data-driven economy, but make sure that the benefits reach everyone, men and women. at the same time, we must take into account the safety of our citizens. i am convinced that europe is ready to meet these challenges and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the data-driven economy requires advanced skills and is expected to create a significant number of jobs in europe in the coming years. the growth rate of the big data market until 2017 will be six times faster than the global ict market and will reach a total of eur 50 billion. the development of this market is therefore an integral part of a new digital market and should therefore ensure the development of innovative and competitive business models, while complying with the eu data protection framework. for these reasons i would have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ every minute the world generates 1.7 trillion bytes of data, equal to 360 000 dv, more than 6 megabytes per capita every day. as a result, the data sector is growing at 40% a year, seven times faster than the general information and communications market. the creation of a data-driven economy should be at the heart of the digital single market strategy and could create a significant number of jobs in europe in the coming years. i voted in favour of this proposal and i hope that the commission and the member states can invest more in network infrastructure through an ad hoc regulatory framework and by continuing to support broadband infrastructure through existing programmes such as the connecting europe facility, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the cohesion fund.
in writing. ‒ the oral question followed by the resolution voted today is an integral part of completing the digital single market, one of the priorities of the commission's current work programme. the text adopted stresses the need for the development of broadband infrastructure, cloud computing and more stable legislation to promote investment. the digital economy offers many opportunities for growth, especially for smes, and for job creation, which however require new 'data and digital skills'. at the same time, data protection, network security and privacy legislation must not be forgotten.
in writing. ‒ the global market for big data technology, i.e. large amounts of data of different types produced at high speed from many types of sources, represents the future of our economy. today, human activities, industrial processes and research are generating an unprecedented level of data collection and processing, which is driving new products, services and business processes. the analysis of digital data is a major contributor to improving economic performance, generating new ideas and predicting future events. this trend represents a huge potential for growth and employment in the european union; i therefore hope that member states and the eu will work towards developing the right infrastructure and technologies, such as broadband and cloud computing, within a stable legal framework that respects data protection and security standards and privacy rules. i believe that a thriving data-driven economy will contribute to citizens' well-being and socioeconomic progress by creating new business opportunities and making public services more innovative. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the development of a european data-based economy, for which i was the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the socialist group. data-driven economy is the collection, analysis and subsequent interpretation of huge databases of information. this is an advanced and rapidly developing sector in which the eu still plays a limited role, but which represents a strategic growth opportunity for our continent. europe, with its 500 million citizens, more than 80% internet penetration and world-class universities, could be one of the largest digital markets in the world. to move from being spectators/users of services to becoming protagonists in the development of the data-driven economy, it is necessary to create a competitive environment by supporting the creation and standardisation of open data, especially with regard to data developed by the public sector, and also by encouraging private companies to open their databases whenever possible while respecting privacy. investing in infrastructure capacity, building specialised skills, promoting entrepreneurship, in a secure but flexible regulatory environment, can create the conditions for the european, joint and coordinated development of the data economy, to enable the eu to compete globally.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution on the data economy. we must pay close attention to the economic potential of this sector: it will be worth around eur 50 billion, according to the international data corporation (idc) forecast for the period 2013-2017, which could lead to the creation of 3,75 million new jobs by 2017. i particularly appreciate that the employment and educational implications of the data economy have been taken into account. firstly, it encourages the awareness raising of smes on this topic, for example by creating a one-stop shop to help them use both their own and public data more effectively, while strictly respecting eu data protection rules; secondly, initiatives to include programming and data processing subjects in national curricula will be supported.
in writing. ‒ in eritrea, the humanitarian crisis has reached enormous proportions. drought, lack of press freedom, low human development index are just some of the factors that indicate a serious situation in the eritrean state. the european parliament resolution aims to commit the commission to ensuring that the funds used directly contribute to the well-being of eritrean citizens, while minimizing unnecessary intermediation. the main concern, however, is the continuing violation of human rights in the country, and the government of eritrea is therefore urged to end the system of indefinite national service by demobilizing conscripts who have completed 18 months of compulsory service. the european parliament also called on the eritrean authorities to release immediately and unconditionally the parliamentarians, journalists, political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. i voted in favour of the resolution to protect human and civil rights.
in writing. ‒ in 1993, eritrea declared its independence from ethiopia. the 23 years since that historic event have seen the country's government disregard democratic promises, establishing a tight grip on society as a whole. the country has not been able to hold free elections and has been negatively marked by the very strong repression of the opposition, which has manifested itself in constant violations of human rights. the 2015 un report confirmed the tragic situation, ranking the african country 186th out of 188 countries considered, in terms of the human development index. the serious situation in eritrea requires the commitment of the entire international community, which is why i have today supported the joint motion for a resolution on the subject. the main problems of the country, which are related to the violation of economic, social and cultural rights, are accompanied by the persistence of a real trafficking in human beings. this is an intolerable situation. the eritrean government must embark on a serious path towards democracy, restoring the rule of law and the protection of human rights. europe has a duty today to exert all possible pressure to bring about the dream of peace and stability of the eritrean people.
in writing. ‒ the resolution provides a timely analysis of the dramatic situation in the country. given that eritrea is one of the countries from which the largest number of migrants to the eu come, i believe that eu intervention would be necessary, especially in view of the impact of the current situation on europe itself. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the situation in eritrea is extremely serious and that it is the eu's task to urge the eritrean government to put an end to the continuing and repeated violations of human rights and to hold democratic and pluralist elections and to begin a real transition to democracy.
in writing. ‒ the seriousness of the situation in eritrea, where the regime systematically violates the most basic human rights, where torture and rape for the purpose of political intimidation are common practices adopted by the regime's apparatuses, where the regime's totalitarian grip is such that it extends its totalitarian grip to the eritrean diaspora, extorting funds from its expatriates through a 2% tax on their incomes, spying on them and targeting their family members remaining in eritrea in case of perceived inappropriate behavior. this is why more than 300,000 eritreans have fled from 2000 to the present day, out of an estimated population of 6.3 million people, and more than 30,000 have been killed in attempts to prevent them from fleeing or in the repression of dissent. the european union cannot therefore continue to cooperate with the eritrean regime and must take action in all international fora to restore freedom and democracy in that region.
in writing. - a shared solution. the situation in the country is dramatic and it is one of the countries with the highest number of refugees coming to the eu. we have child soldiers, women and girls who are subjected to genital mutilation, famine, corruption. the resolution is based on real and shared problems and calls for the need to remedy a situation whose negative aspects are reflected directly in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in eritrea today because many of the refugees arriving in europe are from eritrea. according to the un and human rights watch, the current exodus is fueled by human rights violations in the country, including summary executions without trial, disappearances, torture and forced conscription. the country is in a very difficult situation, according to a un report the government would also use tensions with neighbouring countries as a pretext to ignore respect for human rights and to subject every aspect of the citizens' daily life to the control of the military. the european union must also re-launch a dialogue with asmara in order to try to resolve the issue of migration flows at its roots, but at the same time it must make economic aid conditional on a significant increase in fundamental freedoms in the country.
in writing. ‒ in eritrea, one of the countries from which a large number of asylum seekers arrive in europe, there is a deterioration of the rule of law and human rights. i voted in favour of the text adopted by the european parliament calling on the eritrean government to make progress on the path of reforms, starting with respect for human rights. i also think it is right to stress that i am in favour of full and strong support for the eritrean people, especially in the fight against poverty which is one of the main causes of emigration, but i think that the eu cannot afford to uncritically support the government, because to do so would be to condemn the eritrean people.
in writing. ‒ the situation in eritrea is dramatic. the latest un report on the matter describes afewerki's regime as harsh and oppressive. fundamental freedoms are not guaranteed, much less respected. no citizen under 60 can have a passport, because until that age everyone is called up for military service. prisons are full of political, religious or opposition prisoners who are subjected to torture. in addition, eritrea has dramatic levels of malnutrition and undernutrition that are considered to be of concern by the fao. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it insists on putting an end to this situation and on respect for democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
in writing. the present motion for a resolution, which i have decided to vote in favour of, outlines the difficult situation facing the people of eritrea. we believe it is unacceptable that the government authority continues to violate human rights in a systematic way. we are facing a country which is totally repressing freedom of expression, along with serious violations of freedom of religion and belief. the current reality shows that tens of thousands of eritreans continue to be detained without charge. this situation is the main cause of the extremely high number of eritrean refugees attempting to cross the mediterranean to europe. another factor underlying the exodus is the harsh conditions the government imposes on the population. in view of the above, parliament therefore calls on eritrea to sign, ratify and implement the un convention against torture immediately and to recognise the existence of human rights violations. it also urges eritrea to put an end to arbitrary arrests, enforced disappearances and indefinite detention without charge or trial.
in writing. - the eritreans need help. the fundamental rights of citizens are constantly violated. i am bitter that 89 percent of women are victims of fgm. we cannot allow the people of eritrea to starve to death, with the danger that the crops will be lost. we must help the eritreans, and that is why i support the motion.
in writing. ‒ the situation in eritrea has been deteriorating for some time now. in addition to the scourge of poverty and lack of housing, the un and human rights watch specify that a massive violation of human rights is taking place. in fact, summary executions without trial, disappearances, torture, compulsory conscription and the lack of political opposition make economic development impossible in eritrea. i would like to express my deep concern that the commission should not be allowed to vote in favour of the amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the union must take all the necessary measures to ensure that the international community puts pressure on the eritrean government and must ensure that european funds respond to the needs of the people by providing structures that allow the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights in the country. discrimination, violence and repression permeate every sector of eritrean society: the union's commitment to establish democracy and the rule of law in the country has never been fulfilled. at the penultimate place in the 2015 human development indices, eritrea is the worst country in the world for fundamental rights. there is no freedom of the press or religion, homosexuality is illegal, there is no protection for lgbt groups or for women victims of sexual violence, it is estimated that 89% of girls have been subjected to genital mutilation. prolonged national service, forced labour and the doctrine of "shoot to kill" at the border fall within the scope of crimes against humanity. torture and prolonged detention without just cause are commonplace. the food crisis caused by drought and the lack of access to resources, especially for women and children, encourages desperate migration to europe.
in writing. ‒ the context of repression and violence in eritrea requires urgent action by the european institutions against the systematic violations of human rights that are taking place. in the light of the report of the un special rapporteur, eritrea has unfortunately the worst record in terms of respect for human rights: is a country where citizens are regularly arrested or detained for unjustifiable reasons, such as expressing criticism of the government or evading mandatory indefinite military service. eritrea is one of the most repressive countries on freedom of expression in both media and access to information, with an internet access rate of 1%. for these reasons, eritreans fleeing their country constitute the third largest group of refugees to europe. the aim of the resolution is not only to promote a strong human rights stance but also to ensure that the eu continues to support eritrea by ensuring that aid is effectively used to alleviate the suffering of the eritrean people, or by conditioning this support on an end to human rights violations, the launch of democratic reforms and the normalisation of the country's governance.
in writing. ‒ the current political and social situation in eritrea is quite complex. after more than thirty years of war, the border dispute and the new conflict in 1998 have led to a gradual militarization and severe restrictions on civil rights. my vote in favour of this resolution is to reiterate the need for the eritrean government to comply with the international commitments it has signed up to, including the commitments set out in the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the commission has also been informed that the eritrean authorities are considering the possibility of a possible extension of the mandate of the un special representative for the democratic people's republic of eritrea to the drc.
in writing. ‒ the report in question addresses the current situation in macedonia. the accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have been slowed down by a serious political crisis. the european union therefore pressed the macedonian government to call for new elections; the european union also stresses the importance of the freedom and independence of the media, expressing deep concern about political pressure, hate speech, the constant polarization and lack of independence and pluralism affecting the media. i voted in favour because i believe that the negotiations with the eu will have a positive impact on efforts to resolve bilateral disputes and will at the same time provide a boost and incentive for essential reforms, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the country, which has been a candidate for eu membership for more than ten years, is one of the most advanced in terms of alignment with the acquis communautaire. despite the continuing dispute over the official name, which pits the country against greece, the young republic has embarked on a path of détente which has allowed the development of bilateral relations with the hellenic republic. strengthening more stringent procedures for holding elections, promoting systemic reforms in the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights, and strengthening the role of the parliament are decisive steps that can bring the former yugoslav republic of macedonia closer to the eu and contribute to the consolidation of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has some criticisms and some passages that i do not share, so i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important to continue negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to enable the country to complete the much needed constitutional and economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made important progress both in terms of structural reforms in a democratic sense and in relations with greece and other neighbouring states. however, this progress cannot yet be considered sufficient: the practice of systematically intercepting citizens, control of the media, boycotting the opposition, together with the still widespread practice of patronage at all institutional levels, of high corruption in the political and bureaucratic system, both state and regional, of disproportionate use of force by the military and police forces, lead us to advise the government and the people of macedonia to pursue more vigorously the path of democratization and development they have embarked upon.
in writing. ‒ once again, the negative vote is also due to our substantial opposition to further eu enlargements.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is one of the candidate countries for membership of the european union. unfortunately, the internal political situation is still very tense, with ethnic tensions, riots and clashes between police and protesters occurring with increasing frequency throughout the country. in addition, macedonia's non-cooperative approach to the ongoing migration emergency is also a factor. the restrictive measures introduced by several balkan countries, including macedonia, are causing thousands of people to be stranded in greece. the alignment of macedonia with the decisions of the european union is a key element in the process of european integration. i think it is difficult to support the accession of countries which have not made their basic strategic political choices clear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is, on the whole, very good. of the many issues that are being addressed, a crucial one is the migration crisis. the report recognises that fyrom is facing an unprecedented challenge (500 000 people in transit in 2015) and calls on the commission to help the country in border management by giving macedonia access to relevant union instruments and programmes. the eu also calls on the macedonian authorities to avoid any violence or use of force that could endanger the lives of refugees and migrants and more generally to ensure that any action taken is in line with eu values and respects human dignity. the report also calls for the eu to help improve the country's receptivity, while improving coordination and the flow of information with neighbouring countries and eu member states, with the aim of tackling violations such as trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is committed to meeting the requirements for accession to the european union through the implementation of new reforms. unfortunately, however, much remains to be done in respect of fundamental rights, especially those of women and minorities. in view of the goodwill of this country, i felt i had to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, in this time of crisis, there is no immediate need to enlarge the eu to include other countries.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is making real progress towards reforms that meet the requirements for accession to the european union. as a member of the libe and femm committees, i would like to stress, however, that fyrom still has to make progress towards improving the situation of civil liberties and women's rights. in addition, the fyrom must improve its relationship with minority groups. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this motion, noting the progress made by fyrom.
in writing. ‒ the political agreement between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia signed in june and july 2015 shows that important acts have been adopted in time and in accordance with the objectives set. however, some other obligations are not yet subject to urgent reforms. inviting the macedonian government to make the required changes as soon as possible, i would vote in favour of the amendment.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, despite the progress made in starting eu accession negotiations, must break the current political deadlock, prepare for early, free and fair elections and implement the necessary reforms. we must recognize, however, that the country is facing a critical moment with the challenge of thousands of refugees at the borders. i therefore hope that by voting in favour today, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will be able to make all the necessary efforts for the eu accession process.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the 2015 report on montenegro. the balkan country is now the most advanced in the process of joining the european union, after two further negotiating chapters have been opened. progress in the field of public administration is accompanied by progress in strengthening the legislative framework, with the stated aim of improving the independence and professionalism of the judiciary. although the figures on corruption remain worrying, montenegro has taken a serious step towards combating such phenomena by setting up an anti-corruption agency and a specialised prosecutor's office, which must be operational as soon as possible. the balkan country has also made a significant effort in the fight against terrorism, with increased controls to prevent citizens from being recruited by jihadist organisations and to thwart possible terrorist attacks. the balkan republic has undoubtedly embarked on a path towards strengthening the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, and the union must therefore support this process and encourage the reform work in the country that has been undertaken with conviction in recent years.
in writing. ‒ while this report is partly agreeable, there are still some critical aspects that are not fully developed, and i am also against further eu enlargement, so i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the negotiations for montenegro's accession to the european union continue and that montenegro continue to implement political and economic reforms to allow accession to take place as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is currently the most advanced of the candidate countries for accession to the european union. the progress made, the negotiating transparency and the political will shown by the government are commendable and should be supported. however, it should also be recalled that montenegro should achieve further solid results with regard to the rule of law, which is a key precondition for eu accession. free, fair and transparent parliamentary elections are essential for montenegro's democratic future, as is the fight against corruption, which has proved to be a serious problem, together with organised crime and threats to freedom of expression which are still frequent and widespread in the country.
in writing. ‒ the negative vote is also due to our substantial opposition to further eu enlargements. the report calls for more efforts to combat corruption and organised crime, in order to guarantee freedom of expression and to implement rule of law reform. corruption is noted to remain a serious problem, particularly in public procurement, health care, education, land use planning, privatization, and construction. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup. it is concerned about the lack of freedom of the media and urges the country to guarantee the independence of the public broadcasting service and to resolve the outstanding cases of violence and threats against journalists. the resolution welcomes montenegro's "full alignment with the eu in foreign and security policy" and its contribution to eu crisis management missions, including in the context of the alleged illegal annexation of crimea by russia. the european union also welcomes the decision of nato to invite montenegro to join the alliance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2015 report on montenegro because it is worth noting the important improvements that the country has made and which give hope for the continuation of negotiations with the eu. however, i believe that further progress and reforms are needed. i am referring in particular to the improvement of the rule of law, which is a fundamental prerequisite for eu membership. we must also note that in recent months montenegro has also had a less than cooperative approach to the migration emergency. the restrictive measures adopted by several balkan countries, including montenegro, are having a very serious impact, with thousands of people stranded in greece. the alignment of montenegro with the european union's decisions also on immigration is an important element of the european integration process. in this area, the country must have a more collaborative approach with other eu countries.
in writing. ‒ encouraging the depoliticization of public administration and greater meritocracy, denouncing the scourge of corruption, fighting terrorism while respecting human rights, endorsing and encouraging interfaith dialogue, denouncing high youth unemployment and calling on the government to prepare inclusion policies in the world of work as well as calling for greater commitment from the country on migration policies are some of the most shared points of this report. despite some reservations, mainly due to the approval of montenegro's accession to nato, which was supported in the report without paying too much attention to the geopolitical and economic effects this might have on the entire western balkans region, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the tannock report contains elements that are more than agreeable and other issues, and i certainly agree with the approval of the accession negotiations with montenegro, as well as with the depoliticization of the pa, the search for greater meritocracy and the increase in policies to solve the situation of youth unemployment and to include in the world of work the surpluses created by the current crisis. i also agree with the encouragement of interreligious dialogue and mediation between montenegro and neighbouring countries such as serbia and kosovo. however, the report still contains major problematic points, such as the accession of montenegro to nato, which does not take into account the possible problems this would create for the entire western balkans region. i think it is essential that the eu should ensure a coherent foreign policy, taking a close look at the possible difficulties that might arise from its policy choices. although i agree with many of the points in the report, i am expressing an abstention on the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, in this time of crisis, there is no need to enlarge the eu to include other countries.
in writing. ‒ montenegro still has a lot of work to do before it is considered for eu membership. i support this motion because i agree with the call for improvement of the rule of law. the country also needs to do more to protect minorities, women and lgbt people.
in writing. ‒ progress in the accession negotiations with montenegro is now certain and the two negotiating chapters on transport and energy were announced at the brussels intergovernmental conference on 21 december 2015. the state of israel needs more support from the union and i would therefore have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the many progresses made by montenegro in its process of integration with the european union. i am referring in particular to the reform of the public administration, with its progressive depoliticization, and to the strengthening of the standards for the independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary. i hope that these reforms will now be implemented fully and rapidly. i also welcomed the commitment shown by the montenegrin government to stateless people and the rights of children, through the expansion of quality education, the reform of the social welfare system and the child welfare system. much remains to be done, however, in other areas such as freedom of expression and media pluralism. the independence of the public broadcaster must be guaranteed and it is essential to ensure the safety of journalists, who have been victims of physical attacks and defamatory campaigns in the past, by identifying and condemning the perpetrators of these intimidating acts. the high level of corruption and the presence of organised crime also continue to be a concern. despite the many positive changes in legislation, much remains to be done. just as much remains to be done about domestic and sexual violence against women. there are still very few complaints, given the very low commitment of the judiciary and the police, which does not contribute to creating a climate of trust.
in writing. ‒ among the countries that have embarked on the accession process, montenegro is the one that has made the most progress in the negotiations. corruption, however, remains a serious problem, particularly in the areas of public procurement, health care, education, land use planning and construction. for this reason, montenegro should make the fight against corruption one of its priorities. to this end, i consider the establishment of the anti-corruption agency, which was inaugurated on 1 january 2016, to be an important step forward. i would also like to stress that nato's decision to invite montenegro to join the atlantic alliance must not interfere with the eu accession process, as the two processes must remain separate, in order to avoid overlaps between two international bodies which must maintain their autonomy.
in writing. ‒ parliament must continue to support and stimulate the balkan countries on their path to eu membership. montenegro has made considerable progress in the state of progress in the implementation of the rule of law, but the road ahead is still long, in particular the fight against corruption must be the next, urgent, step, not only because it undermines fundamental democratic principles but also because it negatively hinders social and economic development.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is making important steps on its path towards the european union. however, much remains to be done in the fight against corruption, particularly in the areas of public procurement, health care, land use planning and construction. the boycott of parliamentary activities by a part of the opposition cannot be considered positive either. dialogue and compromise are the cornerstones of any democratic decision-making process. in view of the future enlargement of the union to include the balkans, it is important that the european union should accompany the accession process of these countries with determination and with the utmost attention to the defence of the union's values.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has for the first time spoken out on banking union, but unless accompanied by structural reform of banks, this instrument will not solve the causes of the recent financial crises. the major omissions in this report are a concrete analysis of the effect of the derivatives market, the conflict of interest between the conduct of monetary policy and supervision at the ecb and, lastly, a convincing assessment of the legality of the so-called bail-in. the report also removes the possibility for central banks to play their natural role as deposit guarantee institutions. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2015 annual report on the banking union. this is a careful analysis that effectively highlights how the ub is a fundamental element of emu and an essential requirement for ensuring stability and restoring confidence in the banks of the euro area. in a context of uncertain economic growth, encouraging investment financing means promoting economic development and employment throughout the union. in this context, the role played by the stabilisation of the regulatory and supervisory framework is crucial. the process of simplifying legislation must be continued with concrete efforts to establish an integrated european code on financial regulation and consumer rights. in highlighting the successes of the banking union, the importance of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and the single resolution mechanism (srm) should also be underlined, as these instruments represent a step forward towards a common market for banking services.
in writing. - i found mr gualtieri's report unbalanced and not to be shared. i think that this text is too optimistic both on the single supervisory mechanism and on the bail-in, and does not take the slightest account of the ecb's responsibilities in the current banking crisis affecting italy and small savers; i voted against it for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the first two pillars of the banking union (mmu and srm), which have been operational since november 2014 and january 2016 respectively, are producing initial results. through these instruments, the eu aims to ensure uniform supervision of member states' banks while respecting their diversity and operating models, and to promote uniform rules and procedures for the orderly resolution of failing banks with a minimum impact on the financial system, the real economy, public finances and the citizens of europe. there is scope for improvement in the two instruments in terms of transparency, standardisation of rules, simplification of procedures and improvement of prevention mechanisms, aspects on which parliament pays attention. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr roberto gualtieri, who also supports the need to complete the banking union with a common deposit guarantee system financed through contributions from the financial sector.
in writing. ‒ banking union is crucial to ensure stability and restore confidence in euro area banks, strengthen financial integration, promote risk sharing within monetary union and help break the link between sovereigns and banks at national level. the banking union requires that the single code be complemented by a single supervisory mechanism (ssm), a single resolution mechanism (srm), a deposit guarantee scheme (dgs) and effective budgetary support at eu level. the banking union annual report 2015 shows that the establishment of the ssm has delivered excellent results both from an operational point of view and in terms of supervisory quality. the same applies to the work of the single resolution board in cooperation with the national resolution authorities which ensured the proper functioning of the srm. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ the report paints an overly optimistic picture of the single supervisory mechanism and stresses the importance of the bail-in tool; the commission has also been critical of the 'national banking systems' identified as an obstacle to uniform supervision. unjustified and all to be verified the ecb's recognition of the review of its ethical standards (there are no effective rules on conflict of interest and safeguards against undue influence by the financial sector). in the meantime, there is no clear reference to the fundamental principle that the ecb must fully guarantee bank deposits in the event of a failure. finally, considering that the banking union, conceived in this way, is one of the fundamental pillars of the monetary governance of the euro, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on banking union annual report 2015, as i believe that it is necessary to achieve and strengthen banking union as part of a genuine economic and monetary union, and i am convinced that moral hazard and the lack of risk sharing within the monetary union is a major damage to the entire world economy. the quality of financial regulation and governance, as well as greater transparency of the legislative process in financial services, are strategic in reducing risks in the banking system. in addition to these processes of good governance, the ecb's monetary policy instruments such as the single supervisory mechanism, which has shown good operational and quality results, should be used, as is clear from the report to which i subscribe. economic recovery is undoubtedly under way, but it is fragile because of the lack of structural reforms: the macro-prudential focus should be on preventing fluctuations and not just on strengthening resilience to shocks; in a micro-prudential perspective, a functioning deposit guarantee system can prevent the bailout of banks with taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the european parliament's position on the state of the banking union by analysing its three main pillars: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i voted against the adoption of this report because it expresses assessments which are diametrically opposed to my position on the subject. the report expresses great satisfaction with the results achieved so far with very little criticism. the five star movement deplores the concept of banking union unless accompanied by structural reform of the banks. the ssm is a highly critical instrument because of the way it is conducted, which is that it does not take into account the risks of derivatives, thus distorting the systematicity of banks. another important criticism not mentioned in the report concerns the apparent conflicts of interest in the management of monetary policy and supervision at the ecb. finally, in this report the european parliament does not deplore the illegality of the bail-in system.
in writing. ‒ launched in 2012, following the decision taken by the european council in response to the financial crisis that began in 2007, the banking union was intended to be europe's response to protect euro area countries from new crises that could further destabilise financial markets. this decision led in 2014 to the creation of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) which gives the ecb direct banking supervision and the single resolution mechanism (srm) which is responsible for preparing measures in the event of a bank failure. these instruments are designed to create a single framework for the management of the financial market and to gradually transfer banking supervision to the union level. the evaluation report on the banking union highlighted the important role played by the mvu and the mru, although, as the text shows, there are still some dysfunctions in its functioning. the completion of the banking union will be achieved when the deposit insurance system (edis) is in place, which is necessary to protect savers in the event of a bank failure. i voted in favour of the report because it identifies areas for improving the functioning of the banking union so as to make the financial sector safe, sound and transparent.
in writing. ‒ as this is an own-initiative report and the first annual report on the banking union, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the current state of the banking union, noting its three pillars, the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the european deposit guarantee scheme (edis). although the report highlights the positive results achieved by the banking union, i believe that it has repeatedly highlighted its weaknesses. the banking union has not been able, for example, to resolve the causes and consequences of the current european crisis, since the very existence of the banking union is useless unless accompanied by structural reform of the banks. it is now clear that the functioning of banks is based on conflicts of interest between monetary policy and the ecb's supervisory policy. in view of the problems noted in the report and since all our complaints have been rejected, i cannot but vote against.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is the european union's response to the 2008 economic crisis and an essential tool for ensuring the stability of the single currency and the european financial system. the european parliament's resolution is the first annual assessment of its operation. in my vote in favour, i take note of the significant progress made during 2015 in establishing and launching the activities of both the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism. at the same time, i believe that the structure of the banking union is still incomplete as it needs to be further improved in detail, in particular as regards the possible unfair effects of bail-in on savers at least in an early transitional phase, and as regards risk sharing through a rapid adoption by the european institutions of a european deposit insurance mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is undoubtedly one of the most important initiatives undertaken during the economic crisis and at the same time it is reshaping the financial and economic sector in line with the principles of the lisbon treaty. in fact, the banking union together with the capital markets union is a decisive step towards the formation of efficient and direct channels for monetary policies, which do not always reach economic activity due to inefficient and non-competitive financial systems. financial integration is a key element in reducing moral hazard and breaking the vicious circle between sovereign debt and the national banking system that has dramatically amplified the effects of the financial crisis. in addition, this report addresses two fundamental problems: the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation. the econ committee considers it essential to change some of the parameters concerning the potential risk of derivatives in banks' balance sheets and at the same time to enhance the banks that are more likely to be exposed to the real economy. finally, it is necessary to ensure uniform protection of deposits irrespective of their location. i am convinced that i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which does not reflect the reality of the facts and continues to praise the euro, a currency which i have always opposed.
in writing. ‒ today we approved the 2015 state of the banking union report, which highlights that the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism can be a positive instrument, both from an operational point of view and in terms of supervisory quality, but it is important to underline that there are still a number of shortcomings and significant room for improvement. in particular, coordination between micro- and macro-prudential policies is necessary, also in view of the necessary, and i hope soon, revision of the basle iii rules. the credit crunch, although eased, still represents a serious obstacle to the recovery of smes, which are the real engine of the economy. the requirements for access to credit must therefore be reformed as soon as possible in order to provide our companies with liquidity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the banking union is essential to ensure stability and restore confidence in euro area banks and to strengthen financial integration by reducing risks in the european banking system. i decided to vote in favour because the banking union plays a key role in financing investment and, consequently, in promoting growth and job creation throughout the eu. the single code in this area should be complemented by a single supervisory mechanism (ssm), a single resolution mechanism (srm) and a high level of deposit protection. i agree with the rapporteur that, in addition to the ssm and the srm, the ability to provide a uniform and high level of protection for deposits, regardless of their location, should be ensured. i also believe that the creation of the single resolution board (srb) and the establishment of national resolution authorities in the member states play a key role in the proper functioning of the srm.
in writing. ‒ banking union is an indispensable component and an essential element of a genuine economic and monetary union. such a union is essential to ensure stability and restore confidence in euro area banks, strengthen financial integration and reduce risks in the european banking system. i would have voted in favour of the banking union, which plays a key role in financing investment and, consequently, in promoting growth and job creation throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the banking union provides the european parliament with an opportunity to identify the critical areas and challenges of the new european supervisory architecture. the completion of the banking union entails the need to accompany it with actions to boost growth and development and strengthen the economic governance of the euro. a more united europe, common rules and strong institutions could help us better meet the challenges of a globalised economy. after the banking union and the capital markets union, the aim should be to achieve a fiscal union, which serves the real economy and creates jobs. i believe that the relaunch of european industrial policy and the solution of the problem of access to credit for smes should be one of the priorities of the union. i voted in favour of the report and i hope that the banks will continue to support the real economy by financing start-ups, artisans and small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the first report on banking union was voted during this plenary session, which expressed a positive opinion which i do not think is justified. we believe that the banking union has already amply demonstrated its fragility, since it is not very effective unless it is accompanied by a structural reform of the banks which provides for a clear separation of speculative activities from traditional lending to the real economy. in the context of ssm supervision, we have criticised the conduct of the asset quality review, which only considers credit risk and does not take derivatives into account appropriately, thus distorting the actual risk assessments in banks. we also stressed the existence of conflicts of interest in the management of monetary policy and ecb supervision. as regards the srm, we have denounced both the illegality of the bail-in and the uselessness of the single resolution fund, which does not have sufficient resources to deal with systemic banking crises. finally, we believe that the edis proposal is too weak to really protect deposits, which should be guaranteed by a central bank acting as lender of last resort. the final text, the result of a compromise between the socialists and the people's party, did not include many of our requests and that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ for the first time, the european parliament has spoken through an own-initiative report on the state of the banking union. the report analysed separately the three pillars of the banking union: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the european deposit guarantee scheme (edis). for each of them, satisfaction is expressed for the results achieved so far. there was little criticism and almost no suggestion of improvements. contrary to what is stated in the report, the mechanism set up with the banking union has already amply demonstrated its fragility, not only in the case of supervision but also in that of resolution, as was seen by the bail-in applications. although this union solves some of the consequences of the crisis, it does not act on the causes and thus remains a monotonous and ineffective instrument.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a point of order. the socialist group is outraged by the treatment of refugees in idomeni at this hour. it is unacceptable and criminal to shoot at people seeking international protection. i would remind you that fyrom is a candidate country for accession to the european union. i ask you, mr president, to make a firm and resolute appeal to the authorities of fyrom to stop this behaviour and i also ask frontex to ensure the safety of the refugees. i am told that austria has started building a barrier to prevent the brenner from falling, and this reminds me of a bush preventive war, a disaster.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of mr david borrelli, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. the issue of subsidiarity and proportionality is central to a harmonious and positive development of the union's competences, because it concerns relations with citizens and member states. this argument, however, has implications for trade policy. i would therefore like to sum up the discussion we had in inta. first of all, the issue of the sdss, a well-known issue which has fuelled and continues to fuel a number of potential conflicts between the powers of the union and the jurisdictional sovereignty of the member states. secondly, the question of macrofinancial assistance. more ex ante and ex post controls are needed, in particular to assess the proportion of assistance we provide to our partners and at the same time to strengthen parliament's control. thirdly, there are the issues of transparency and impact assessments of international treaties, ensuring that they are honest, reliable and consistent. the involvement of enterprises at this stage, and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, as called for in the inta opinion, remains crucial. finally, i would like to recall that subsidiarity and proportionality are central to trade issues. the real challenge is how to better calibrate our actions, bringing decision-making as close as possible to the citizen. i believe that trade policy cannot be excluded from this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are very important and also very delicate, not only to be implemented but above all to be balanced between them, as many colleagues have pointed out. but what is the result of the report we are discussing? all the additional forms of control introduced paradoxically end up by taking away transparency from the processes that will be tackled and, on the other hand, reverse what we consider to be the positive path, namely giving greater autonomy and power to the european union. it is a return to unnecessary responsibility for the member states. so this is in fact a measure that distracts us from the objective for which we are here representing the citizens of europe. i would like to point out, among other things, not because of the responsibility of those who have worked on this issue, that we are facing a hypothetical solution which is in contrast to other measures which are under discussion in these very days or even in these very hours, those which we will be facing, we will be voting on them tomorrow, are not consistent with the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation and have elements which are in sharp contrast, for example with the compromises we will be voting on on refit. the direction we are taking is one which i believe must be changed absolutely and rapidly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of subsidiarity, when properly interpreted, means that decisions are taken as close as possible to the citizen, which is extremely important and fundamental for the five star movement. we are well aware that this is not a direct democracy instrument, but there is no doubt that it is a principle which aims to bring the european union closer to its citizens, ensuring respect for the sovereignty of individual member states and the adoption of local action whenever necessary. we therefore welcome a report which boldly highlights both the centrality of this principle and the limits to its correct interpretation. we particularly welcome paragraph 29 of the report, where, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the commission should simplify the procedure for requesting eu funds, so as to make it more efficient and meritocratic and to avoid corruption, which very often lurks in bureaucratically complex procedures, and we also ask for clarity on the compliance with the subsidiarity principle of the various aspects of international trade agreements which the european union is negotiating without the necessary transparency, including for example ttip.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate on subsidiarity and proportionality is being corrupted by the many eurosceptics who tell us that europe does not respect this principle. the reality is that when you look at the very small number of yellow and orange cards that not only reach the end, but the very small number of those that start a procedure - because to start a procedure for infringement of subsidiarity you have to be able to prove that it has actually been infringed - this shows us how very rarely the infringement is carried out by the commission and that it is therefore difficult to prove its existence. i think that the report is a little bit tainted by this concern, with the risk, by inserting too many cautions, too many additional procedures, of damaging the other fundamental principle of simplification and better legislation, or of dragging the decision-making process out indefinitely. i therefore think that some amendments should be voted on, as they are necessary. a word on the green card issue. i think it is an interesting subject but one which should be included in a treaty and not used, put into practice now, because it must be linked to the legislative initiative power of the european parliament, otherwise this would weaken our legislative role.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's debate was not originally on the agenda, but i think it is right that we should be discussing in this house such an important subject which is closely related to human and animal health and the environment, and i am therefore glad that this debate can take place here in front of you all. in recent months, there has been intense discussion about the european commission's decision to renew the authorisation of glyphosate within the regulatory framework of the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market. the current authorisation expires in june 2016. as you all know, glyphosate is an active ingredient in a selective herbicide and is currently the most widely produced herbicide worldwide. it has been used for the last 40 years on a global scale and is used in 76% of cases in the agricultural sector. the envi committee of this parliament, on whose behalf i am presenting this position today, raised and approved the objection we are now discussing, asking the european commission to withdraw the draft implementing regulation, not to renew the approval of glyphosate, to draw up a clear timetable for drawing up a list of co-formulants which cannot be included in commercial products. the report also calls on the commission to carry out an independent review of the classification of glyphosate in the short term, in the light of the available scientific evidence on the carcinogenic potential of the substance and on the possible interference properties on the basis of the horizontal scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors. but i would like to take a short step back to better understand what happened after the commission renewed the authorization. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen, based on limited evidence of carcinogenic effects in humans and sufficient evidence of tumours in laboratory animals. in november 2015, efsa, the european food safety authority, in contrast to the opinion of iarc, completed a peer review of glyphosate and concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a cancer threat to humans and that the available evidence does not justify its classification for carcinogenic potential in accordance with the regulation concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. the envi committee, faced with this situation, decided by a large majority that the precautionary principle should be applied in this case, in order to ensure that active substances or products placed on the market do not have harmful effects on human or animal health or the environment. the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market states that, in particular, it does not prevent member states from applying the precautionary principle where there is scientific uncertainty as to the risks to human health, animal health or the environment of plant protection products to be authorised on their territory. the envi committee therefore considers that the draft commission implementing regulation does not ensure a high level of health protection, does not apply the precautionary principle and exceeds the implementing powers laid down by the legislation. it therefore calls on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation, calls on the commission not to renew the approval, calls on the efsa to disclose all scientific evidence. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the position of the committee i chair, on which you must of course express your opinion.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am taking part in this debate, because it is important that we can speak about this today in view of the vote on wednesday. the renewal of the authorization of glyphosate must be stopped and must be stopped because, in particular, it cannot be thought of renewing the authorization at a time when the two largest scientific agencies do not agree on this point. a joint table is needed to reach a common position, without which these european institutions cannot even think of renewing the authorization of glyphosate. we have also already spoken in this house about the dangers of endocrine disruptors and the fact that echa is missing another agency that has yet to speak that will have to give its position in the coming months. before this position is reached, it is not possible to take a decision on any renewal of glyphosate. finally, the environmental impact, the environmental impact on the environment, especially on aquatic organisms, must be studied, monitored, as well as on human health.
member of the commission.– mr president, let me repeat that the point at issue in this debate is whether the draft implementing act exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the basic act. as i said before, the draft implementing regulation for renewal of the approval of glyphosate is consistent with the relevant regulations. the commission considers, therefore, that this falls within its implementing powers. the commission services will continue to discuss with member states the best way forward on the renewal of glyphosate, seeking a solution which commands the widest possible support among member states. the draft implementing act is therefore likely to be amended.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to stress the usefulness of this debate, which has allowed us, in this chamber, in the presence of all our colleagues, to express our views. we have seen that there are very different positions within parliament, as has already been pointed out in the committee on the environment, but now is also the time to look for possible solutions. we have heard in this house the proposal of some amendments by the political groups which could, on the one hand, meet the need for renewal of authorization, but, on the other hand, obviously be able to give guarantees in a shorter time on the actual and not presumed, possibly, carcinogenicity of the product. but one thing is certain, and we must all be aware of it, and that is the importance of this product which is widely used in agriculture today as a herbicide and which, as some colleagues have said, could only be replaced by mechanical interventions, i.e. manual or mechanical felling, which, objectively, if, on the one hand, they are technically possible, on the other hand, would certainly undermine the competitiveness of our production system. so we shall be voting on this tomorrow and in the next few days, and i invite everyone to think about it in a broader way. on the other hand, another element that has emerged and which i would like to emphasize briefly is the role of the food safety agency: is the technical instrument available to the european union. and, as mr aguilera said, it is certainly the instrument we have at our disposal and on which we should also rely for our evaluations, otherwise i would not know what the agencies which burden the budget of europe are for.
in writing. glyphosate is a widely used active substance in herbicides. in 2000, when the patent expired, it was marketed by multiple companies and several hundred plant protection products containing glyphosate are currently registered in europe for use in agriculture. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classified glyphosate as 'probably carcinogenic to humans' based on 'limited evidence' of carcinogenic effects in humans, 'sufficient evidence' of cancers in laboratory animals, and 'strong evidence' of mechanistic data regarding the carcinogenicity of 'pure' glyphosate and glyphosate-containing formulations. nevertheless, in november 2015 the european food safety authority (efsa) completed an assessment of glyphosate and concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a cancer threat to humans and that the available evidence does not justify its classification for carcinogenic potential in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008. the 5-star movement does not intend to renew the authorisation of glyphosate until there is a unanimous opinion on the absence of carcinogenic risk and echa has also taken a decision on the likely endocrine-disrupting properties of the active substance, which is expected by 2017.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the particular subject of the single market, an essential instrument for boosting economic growth and employment, raises challenges of effectiveness and efficiency of legislation which cannot be postponed, since, by means of the right body of legislation, we are restoring fruitfulness to an environment which is no longer competitive for our companies and to improve the single market legislation, which strengthens consumer confidence. this optimisation of the legislative process highlights the european added value, both in the shared choice of the governance of the single market and in the adoption by the member states of the implementing legislation. the problem of the lack of sufficient indicators to measure the effectiveness of the implementation of legislation in the different areas of the single market should not be overlooked either. however, above all legislative and executive processes - i will never tire of saying this - is the guiding principle of respect for fundamental rights, through which the objectives of simplicity, transparency and consistency must be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to feel truly european, i believe that citizens must know about the european union. this means first of all that the citizens must have at their disposal all the necessary tools, materials and intellectual resources. it means encouraging critical reflection on the history of integration and the current european architecture; means teaching and promoting, especially by concrete and positive examples, shared fundamental values and rights; it is also important to explain the institutional set-up, the decision-making processes of the european union, which are certainly not simple, and the impact of european decisions on the daily lives of all citizens. only in this way can we train european citizens who are really aware and try to reduce the democratic deficit, the democratic deficit, whose existence is strongly and clearly recognized by the report itself. it even explicitly emphasises how the growing gap between citizens and the european institutions must be addressed and resolved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report has some positive aspects, but they are not in keeping with the timidity with which it judges the failure of the instruments used by europe to combat the scourge of youth unemployment, which in some countries, for example in southern europe, continues to remain at unacceptable levels. the position on the widening gaps in socioeconomic protection and youth employment rights and on early school leaving is also weak. i believe that education should be protected as a basic human right and should be considered a common good to be made accessible to all, including the disabled, on an equal footing. in addition, it is essential to remove all social and economic barriers to equal opportunities, including those relating to education and vocational training. these results cannot be achieved with the austerity policies which have so far guided european decisions and which have been particularly painful for the citizens of southern europe. some instruments such as the youth guarantee have not achieved the objectives for which they were designed. the european union can and must do more for youth education.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, global challenges require coordination on a large scale, and i fully agree with that. what i disagree with is the answer that is being given because i do not believe that the 'more europe' solution is credible. the answer cannot be to force everyone to align themselves with a single model, to eliminate all forms of dissent or to continue to cede sovereignty to a european union which is not able to provide solutions to the problems of its citizens today. we do not want europe to speak with one voice. what we are asking for is greater cooperation and respect, and to achieve this we do not need a technocratic superstructure like the eu. the federalist utopia of a united states of europe, which exalts the role of crises as necessary evils to persuade citizens to cede more sovereignty to structures far away and outside democratic control, is pure folly and unrealizable. if the real europe is to survive, it must abandon this failed project and move towards a model of functional integration for individual objectives which protects and respects the differences between states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission must endeavour to support innovative projects and legal provisions which will facilitate the development of regions dependent on fisheries. in particular, priority should be given to projects aimed at creating and maintaining jobs and promoting fish tourism and gastronomy linked to artisanal fisheries products. the commission should actively support investments in diversifying fisheries, both in marketing and processing local fishery products and in stimulating the development of local distribution channels and in promoting products through the creation of distinctive signs and local brands. it is also essential that both the commission and the member states progressively increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen in order to promote this type of fishing which is socially and ecologically sustainable, just as it is important to give priority to small-scale coastal fishing in the allocation of the european maritime and fisheries fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the united nations intervention to conserve and use marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction is right and most appropriate, and perhaps only a little late. the proliferation of maritime activities and the increasing pressure on marine sustainability make it no longer possible to delay action on conservation. the development of a legally binding international instrument that is truly effective and well coordinated in the field of marine biology must necessarily also cover fisheries, just as the principle of liability must be incorporated into the new international agreement through the recognition of ecological damage at sea and the establishment of the chain of responsibility for this damage. the new international agreement should provide for the development of an institutional mechanism to carry out a preliminary environmental impact assessment for activities that may have a significant impact on the marine environment, with a sound scientific basis and accompanying such activity with environmental and socioeconomic monitoring.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here to say that thanks to the italian judiciary, a new scandal has come to light concerning the illegal disposal of waste from oil extraction in basilicata, in southern italy. mayors, regional councillors, regional presidents, undersecretaries, ministers and even the italian prime minister matteo renzi were involved. however, on 13 november 2014, i asked the commission, which is represented here, whether the plants at tempa rossa, tecnoparco and centro olio di viggiano complied with the european directives; on 7 january 2015, i reported on the adverse health effects of mining activities in the val d'agri; on 5 march 2015, i requested information on the environmental compatibility of an eni well, which had been struck for the fifth time. on 12 march 2015, i reported the illegal dumping of industrial sludge in tempa rossa; on 21 june 2015, i reported heavy metal and hydrocarbon contamination of the groundwater near the oli di viggiano centre; i would add: a written statement, ten speeches in plenary, more than twenty speeches in the committee on the environment. i would like to know what the european institutions are going to do if, in the face of all these reports, no action is taken to protect the health of the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i denounce to the presidency a very serious violation of the rights and prerogatives of parliament and of the member, in this case the undersigned, who is being prosecuted in the milan court for his opinions. although the court of first instance was informed that the matter was before the juri committee, it not only refused to stay proceedings but also suddenly decided to refer the case back to the court of justice. now, i think we are faced with an unusual and very serious breach of prerogative and also a breach of what is the result of the constant case law of the courts of justice. i shall therefore be submitting an application to president schulz tomorrow asking him to defend the abovementioned prerogative before the court of justice. we cannot tolerate the principle of freedom, because this prerogative also protects, it is a prerogative of parliament as well as of the parliamentarian, to be violated in an unexpected way against the constant case law of the courts of justice.
the agenda includes the report by roberta metsola and kashetu kyenge, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to immigration (2015/2095(ini)) (a8-0066/2016).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote marks the end of a political process which lays the foundations for a future common migration policy. it was an extraordinary job of aligning the different positions and i thank mr metsola for the work done together in smoothing out individual sensitivities and sharing a common approach: migration is not counteracted but managed. it is managed through all the policies and instruments at our disposal, in the optimal combination of domestic and foreign policy. it is managed through the full involvement of all relevant actors, at european, national and local level. it is managed through concrete short-term actions and forward-looking medium- and long-term policies. it is managed if there is the political will to implement a founding principle of the union, the principle of solidarity and full sharing of responsibilities among all member states. we have taken this political responsibility. the draft resolution provides concrete responses to what is the largest displacement of men and women since the second world war, and outlines structural policies aimed at curbing the phenomenon and combating its root causes. the guiding principle of our proposals is the global approach and the principle of solidarity is at the heart of them. saving lives becomes a top priority, as does the development of mechanisms for the distribution of beneficiaries of international protection across all member states of the european union. it is time for the member states to take up their responsibilities and fulfil their obligations in relation to the relocation measures which this house is so keen on. we insist on the need for a binding and mandatory mechanism for resettling a significant number of asylum seekers directly from refugee camps in third countries to the member states, the so-called 'humanitarian corridors', while at the same time strengthening similar forms of solidarity, such as humanitarian admission and humanitarian visas. we call for specific measures for minors, starting with the right to legal assistance, health care, education, protection and, above all, not to be detained because of their condition. we analyse the critical points of the common european asylum system and decree the end of the dublin regulation. our proposal is clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. we propose to set up a central and collective system for the allocation of responsibilities. a system which could be designed by setting thresholds for each member state in relation to the number of arrivals. the asylum application will no longer be made in italy or greece, but in europe. commissioner timmermans, this is the dublin amendment we expect from you, not cosmetic tweaks to a regulation which has proven in the face of the facts to be unable to meet the migratory challenges of recent years. managing migration also means addressing the root causes of migration. we call for greater cooperation with third countries, the relaunching of certain processes, including rabat and karthoum, and above all for strong measures to combat trafficking in human beings. the european union is also committed to the development of a european asylum system, which will be based on the principles of the european convention on human rights and the european convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i hope that the amendment to the blue card is ambitious and reflects the needs identified in the labour market. the success of an immigration policy is also measured in terms of integration. we call on the member states to take concrete measures to provide housing, access to education and to intensify intercultural dialogue. mr president, with this resolution we are laying the foundations for a common migration policy that is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. it is now up to the member states to decide whether they will follow our path or decree the final decline of the process of european integration. the future of europe also depends on how much we share our european dream and our values.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the two rapporteurs for the work they have done here. there is a very great distance between what we are doing here this morning, the work that has been done, and the news that continues to reach us even in these hours, such as the last one, the one about the wall between italy and austria of two hundred and fifty metres, so to speak, which the newspapers are reporting this morning and how unsatisfactory, once again, is the response that the states are giving to the migration crisis. we have two important contributions to make to this resolution, commissioner. the first is to put cohesion policy at the service of a new migration policy and to make cohesion policy more flexible, more open, more willing to be less blocked in its programmes and to be more concretely helpful, so to speak, to the policy of countering the migration emergency, but also as a structural policy for the coming years. the second point we make in this report is that we need to introduce gradually measures which derogate from the stability pact, so that the resources which individual states and the european commission itself make available for migration policy are increasingly excluded from the narrow logic of the stability pact. we are therefore calling for a reflection on these two points.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lulling, for her excellent report. for a year and a half the groups have negotiated, often and hard, to reach today's resolution. we started with two strong ambitions: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which has been very helpful and has been very helpful in the past. if holistic means overcoming a difficulty by tackling its aspects together, and if i think of european policies over the last year and a half, i wonder whether we have been up to the task. it is not a holistic view that the member states and the commission, including frontex, should concentrate on border control and the refusal of refugees, on the pretext that this is the only way to save schengen. it is not a holistic view that donald tusk has taken when he calls on refugees from war not to come to europe in particular. is not a holistic frontex transformed into a new agency for collective repulsions; the agreement with a regime, turkey, which is sending thousands of returnees back to the syrian war zone while repressing its own kurdish compatriots at home, is not holistic. this report contains positive points, particularly as regards the demand for legal access to the union, for european search and rescue systems, for the mutual recognition of asylum decisions. it would be in keeping with its initial ambitions if it were to denounce the agreement with turkey in clear terms, as my group has specifically requested in its amendments, if it understood that we are facing a refugee crisis, not an immigrant crisis. if it does not, this parliament will not be able to claim to have a holistic view of the mediterranean.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and the colleagues who worked on the opinions coming from the other committees. we can say that we have tried, during this year and a half, the european parliament has tried to find a united position for a holistic approach to the migration issue, but it is also true that on the other hand the total impotence of the european parliament in the face of the selfishness of the member states has emerged and this result can only be a total failure of the european union in its approach to the migration issue. because, gentlemen, what we are witnessing is a failure. the relocation that was voted on, announced by 160,000 people, has resulted in a few hundred being relocated so far; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. is at risk of schengen; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the dublin regulation was to be the starting point, we had to get past it, but we have not yet succeeded because it is from there that a unified view of the matter begins. if we cannot distribute ourselves, if we cannot look together at how to tackle the problem, it becomes impossible to find solutions, and all the solutions we are discussing are solutions which are not sufficient and which risk turning border countries, such as italy and greece, into bottlenecks, into huge refugee camps. we need a more transparent, smarter approach to managing funds because at the domestic level there are jackals who speculate on the management of immigration, both economically and politically. unfortunately, what we are experiencing is a sad page in history, someone has remembered what is happening in idomeni where tear gas is being fired in camps where there are children. and when one day this page of history is remembered, it will be difficult to say that we are free of blame, it will be difficult to find excuses.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, criminal acts are different from this report which attempts to find a solution to a tragic reality. i would like to know what the commissioner thinks about the walls that are being built. schengen is breaking up. what does your colleague think, since you are talking about criminal actions, of what austria is doing on our border with brenner?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that the solution to the problem of population decline is to ensure that europeans have more children, not some other rather strange issue. i say another thing from my point of view, when we talk about a holistic approach to immigration, we should ask ourselves whether immigration is a good thing or a bad thing. since immigration is caused by evil, which is often war or poverty, it is clear that good cannot come from evil, so migration on a scale as large as this is an evil, it is an evil and so we should try to see what the causes are and try to solve them. and the question is only dealt with in paragraph 103 of this report, in a few lines in paragraph 103, whereas it was the first thing; it's the geopolitical issues, the war issues. and then we take into account one thing: and then when these people come here, you need a period of integration. i saw that it says that it is a two-way process, no, it is a one-way process, they are the ones who have to integrate with us because otherwise cases like molenbeek happen, where there was immigration, but where there was no integration and where there are huge problems now. so we want to create molenbeek in every city?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to prove that the european union is capable, through the compromise of which this report is the fruit, of giving concrete answers to the migratory challenge. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs for their efforts and commitment during this year's work. the text offers balanced guidelines, avoiding extremist tendencies on either side, which could certainly tear at the moderate sense of cooperation and compromise which this report is steeped in. this owninitiative report is yet another call for action to the member states to act together for the common good. i am pleased that we all share the need for urgent amendment of the dublin regulation to remove the obligation to seek asylum in the country of first arrival, a provision which has put italy, malta and greece to the test. shared responsibility, solidarity between member states, a constructive spirit and the sharing of the financial burden are the keys to succeeding where individual member states have failed. for this reason, i support the paragraphs in which we insist on the need for a common plan for the return of economic migrants, the fight against human traffickers, and plans for the relocation of migrants eligible for international protection. i thank mr metsola for insisting on the inclusion in the text of clear references to the risks that weak and soft immigration policies pose to the security of our citizens. we need more security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs kashetu kyenge and mrs roberta metsola for their work. like it or not, immigration is something europe will have to deal with for a long time. it is a theme, a challenge which will accompany us in our european development and if we do not resolve it in the fairest and most effective way, it risks jeopardizing, and is already jeopardizing, what we have built up so far in europe. so every myopia, every closure is just a form of defense, destined to be inevitably overcome. let us, instead, as the report says, approach it in the most open way, with a global approach. let's tackle this issue where it comes from, by solving the causes on the ground: the poor, the war. let us deal with them where they come, in our countries, with intelligent and effective management, with regular channels for arrivals and with a european asylum system. let us also do so with openness to coexistence and integration, focusing especially on women, who are a key element, and on young people, with a lot of education and training, because this is the way to integration. i think this is the only way and it is not abstract idealism, mine, it is rather the healthy realism of those who want to govern the problems and build their own future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, kyenge and metsola, for their long and difficult work in producing this report. the report's holistic approach is fundamental and was what we had appreciated in the european agenda on immigration, but today we are more concerned because this approach is being lost. we would have liked to have seen more courage in the commission's communication last week on the need to reform the common european asylum system, with one strong position rather than several alternatives, and i strongly urge the commission not to let itself be dragged by the selfishness of governments into the usual and failed security approach. we are only prepared to work on an ambitious and comprehensive reform of dublin, not cosmetic retouching. what would be the point of saying, as we do here, that dublin is over, that it does not work and that it must be overcome, and then stopping at a dublin plus? it would be therapeutically aggressive. the report clearly calls for solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility to be put at the centre, and calls for the first country of access criterion to be dropped once and for all, but it goes further towards centralising the examination of asylum applications, which would become a european responsibility. what is happening in idomeni is a matter of shame for every european. people who shouldn't even be there if governments had taken their responsibilities and kept their commitments on relocation. it must be clear that until the relocations really start, the whole system cannot work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have my respect and my full support, and that includes what you have done for italy. but it is time to act, to act forcefully, of course in all the peaceful ways we have. i would like to draw your attention to a few points, and i would also like to thank the rapporteurs. the schengen area: we are not asking governments, we are asking our people, our businesses, our border guards, our artisans, our farmers, we are asking that the borders not be closed. the closure of the brenner affects only italian workers, not illegal immigrants. no to schengen means that all refugees and illegal immigrants would remain in italy, because there is no change to the dublin treaty. so those who really love italy and those who love their country must fight to close the external borders and not the internal ones. the european countries which do not respect the quotas, i am sorry to say, do not receive european funds. i've said this for years: there's no time for solidarity when someone doesn't show it. and i'll close with the returns. we have also written about this in the milan document as the ppe, and if a country of origin - i will conclude, mr president - does not help us, we cannot give aid. so as soon as they accept, of course, to take back their own citizens, whether they are illegal or not, they will also receive our trade agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that today will be the last opportunity for discussion and debate in this house on a very strategic subject, which is certainly immigration, on which we are playing a great game of credibility. too often we have spent hours of our time in this parliament debating and debating and welcoming with great satisfaction some of the decisions taken by the juncker commission, only to see them fail, thanks to the council's insensitivity and incompetence. that is why we must tackle and solve once and for all the issue of returns, as mr comi has said, of those who do not qualify for political asylum. that is why the question of amending the dublin iii regulation, which is the real anomaly of the european reception system, must be tackled and solved once and for all. only in this way can the right balance be struck between the needs of solidarity, of concrete solidarity, but also of security, which is a priority for europe. commissioner, and i will conclude, the solution to the problem of immigration cannot be represented only by the agreement with turkey, which cost six billion euros, and which is in fact blocking the flow of migrants from the balkan route to the mediterranean route.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs metsola and mrs kyenge for their excellent work. immigration, which is no longer an emergency but has become almost a structural problem, requires a systemic response and a consistent and shared commitment by all member states. the scenes we are witnessing today unfortunately show us that there is still a fragmented and inadequate approach to managing the growing flow of migrants. and if in such a dramatic situation one can speak of priority, one should consider as such the question of minors, in particular unaccompanied minors, ten thousand of whom have disappeared in europe in the last two years. i have therefore tried to contribute to the drafting of the report by making some amendments on this point. however, the commission should follow up on the european agenda on migration by drawing up and implementing a comprehensive strategy to protect unaccompanied minors adequately, in order to prevent their disappearance and to prevent them from being exposed to serious risks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my full support for the motion for a resolution which has been tabled, because it is a useful summary for taking concrete steps towards a common policy in the european union, through the equal assumption of responsibility by all, a condition which also meets the security requirement. two highlights among many: the need for a centralised asylum system to manage the growing flows of migrants and asylum seekers and humanitarian corridors, legal channels and secure legal instruments, such as humanitarian visas, to guarantee third-country nationals entry into the union without having to risk their lives and having to resort to human traffickers. significantly, on 16 april, pope francis, patriarch bartholomew and the archbishop of athens will travel to lesbos, the island already known as lampedusa in the aegean. the european union must build bridges and not walls, by taking on joint responsibilities in a realistic and concrete way.
the rapporteur. thank you, mr president, and thank you to all the colleagues who contributed to the debate and to all those who collaborated with us in the drafting of this report. like you, commissioner, i ask myself every day whether we will be able to turn this crisis into an opportunity and lay the foundations for a new society characterised by human mobility. will we be able to lay the foundations for a common migration policy that meets the challenges of the 21st century? yes, mr president, we will succeed, but only if we are able to base our future policies on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the principles enshrined in international law. what is happening on the greek-macedonian border is shameful and the member states must take responsibility for their actions. this resolution is only the first step in a political process which will bear fruit only if there is unity of purpose, only if the member states decide once and for all to put aside the new policies of closure, to tear down protective walls and to regard migratory flows as an invasion. we cannot deny our assistance to a number of migrants who are 0.2% of the population. we cannot deny a process of integration to those who are fleeing war and persecution or simply to those who are seeking a better life in our territories, and we must stop criminalizing certain realities and throwing mud on neighbourhoods that are experiencing difficult situations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the message i am sending from this house today is different: i am asking instead that we come together, that we join forces to build a society that can manage flows and build resilience to the phenomenon of migration.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the continuation of this situation requires a deep reflection on the responses that have been put in place: the idea of allocating resources to be managed at the level of individual member states is proving ineffective, with the risk of a gradual renationalisation of a policy which has historically been a factor of european integration such as the cap. the non-significant effects of the eur 450 million allocated to the milk sector last autumn are proof of this: the dispersion of these resources has in fact killed the potential for organized use to contain european production. the search for urgent responses to the crisis must not therefore undermine the ability to tackle complex challenges at european level, such as safeguarding the economic, social and environmental role of agriculture. the time has come to give serious thought to a mid-term review of the cap.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken of the agricultural crisis, but it is the milk sector that is in the greatest crisis, an unprecedented crisis which is causing the slaughter of italian stalls. in one year, 1 500 stalls in italy were closed down as a result of the fall in the price paid to farmers. the price is dropping from 44 cents a gallon two years ago to 30 cents a gallon this year. in italy 110 million quintals of milk are produced and 85 million quintals of milk are imported, but also powdered milk, concentrates, curdled milk and semi-finished products. these, after the transformation of our industry, magically become italian products and so on the shelves we find three out of four cartons of milk that are passed off as italian and mozzarella that is passed off as italian. that is why the first thing to do immediately, what producers and consumers are asking for, what i am asking for and what i hope the commissioner is asking for, is the labelling of origin. it's the only way we'll know where that milk comes from.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that agriculture is going through a difficult period. this is particularly true of the dairy sector, particularly in those areas which have to produce under difficult conditions and have higher production costs. how, for example, can a miner produce milk at such prices and still be able to finance his livelihood? we have decided to abolish quotas, and of course the abolition of quotas opens up new opportunities for those who can produce at low prices or low costs. but that also means that we must help those who could be hit by this situation, because otherwise we risk the spread of agriculture throughout europe and the spread of dairy farming. that is why we need some measures, we need rapid internal convergence in the member states where this has not yet happened, for example in italy. but above all, we need a programme of aid for the producer organizations, for the processors, especially in the mountain areas, who process milk into high-quality products and who could be financed in the same way as the fruit and vegetable sector and whom we could help. and it needs its own programme and its own fund to promote these high-quality products from the mountain area. if we do not do this, the dairy industry will disappear from the mountain, and that would be a lasting change in the agriculture of the mountain region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fall in prices, the problem of overproduction and the russian embargo are dealing a death blow to european agriculture. the 2015 aid package is not enough. i agree that aid should be a safety net and not a general support for farm profitability, but the current level of unit prices for agricultural products makes it necessary to take exceptional measures. to deal with such a devastating crisis, it is necessary to raise the withdrawal prices set by the european union and differentiate them by type of production. i would like to know how the commission intends to ensure that producers have practical access to flexible and innovative financial instruments, which can be identified in conjunction with the european financial institutions. the commission should also be more forceful in its efforts to ensure that the origin of raw materials is indicated on the label. i am convinced that the promotion of the origin helps to safeguard the european agricultural model, the work of our farms and to protect the consumer, who must be able to make a transparent and informed choice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you for coming to this debate. i appreciate the plan you have presented to the council for the crisis in the agricultural markets, i appreciate the flexibility on the minimum rates, the activation of article 222 for the dairy sector and all the rest. what i do know, however, commissioner, is that none of these measures is devoted to what is one of the main causes of the crisis in our fruit and vegetable markets, namely trade policy with third countries. it is not just milk, commissioner, there are tomatoes, oranges, which were once the symbols of southern european agriculture, which is still a very important sector today. there is no mention of the activation of the safeguard clause, no mention of initiating an impact assessment of current imports, no mention of withdrawal prices. this is a matter of european credibility and the confidence of producers and consumers in the european agricultural system. our farmers are suffering enormously.
i'll inform the president of your request. as you know, the european union and parliament actively support the defence of human rights not only within the union but also outside the union, as provided for in the treaty. thank you for your intervention and your encouragement.
mr. president, a few hours ago, the co-founder of our political movement passed away. therefore, the italian delegation of the efdd group, the five star movement, today refrains from speaking in the house in mourning.
as i have already had occasion to do, i have expressed my condolences to your political movement for the loss of mr casaleggio.
mr president, you are not consulting the agenda, the house was informed of the result of the referendum. let us proceed with the votes.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
i thank mr kaufmann for his precision, the services will do whatever is necessary to update the text. thank you, though.
that concludes the voting.
the oral explanations of vote are on the agenda.
in writing. ‒ council regulation no 1528/2007 lays down the arrangements for certain products originating in the caribbean, the pacific and certain countries in the african states (acp). the regulation aims to codify european legislation on this subject, contained in various agreements establishing or aiming to establish economic partnership agreements. the aim is to provide a temporary instrument to facilitate the entry of products from less developed economies into the european market, thus attempting to progressively intensify trade between the eu and the acp. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the wałęsa report on products originating in certain acp states. it is a technical measure aimed at simplifying eu legislation on market access for products from african, caribbean and pacific countries. this is an important report because the original legal instrument, regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, has generated considerable problems of clarity and a difficulty in implementation due to the numerous amendments that have taken place since 2007. the new proposal for a regulation, which i supported with my vote, provides for a temporary instrument for duty-free access to the eu market for products originating in acp countries. the measure will only be activated before 1 october 2016, for the period preceding the conclusion and application of the new economic partnership agreements (epas) in line with the requirements of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the arguments put forward in the report by my colleague on the adaptation to the current legislation of regulation no 1528/2007 governing access to the eu market for certain african, caribbean and pacific countries. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the codification of these legislative acts is important in order to clarify the legal framework governing access to the single market for products from certain acp states.
in writing. ‒ we consider it an act due to the regulatory and linguistic adjustment linked to the process of recasting the regulations in question, aimed at better transparency and accessibility by the citizens of the eu and partner countries, and we hope that the protection of the rights of individuals will be a central element of any possible future trade and/or partnership agreement with the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) and/or other areas of political or economic interest.
in writing. ‒ the measure itself is not problematic. there are no negative economic consequences for the commercial interests of our regions. in fact, as this is a 'reconstruction' measure, we are faced with the need to adapt regulation no 1528/2007 governing access to the eu market for certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) to the rules in force in the meantime. since 2007, this regulation has already been amended 9 times, also to align it with the post-lisbon reforms. in particular, the amendments voted on today are to adapt the existing rules to the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the southern african development community concluded in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to codify regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 applying the arrangements for products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states. this is a temporary instrument to ensure that certain products from the least developed acp countries can have access to the european market pending the signing and ratification of the various trade agreements currently under negotiation. i voted in favour of the proposal because it does not go beyond the mere codification of the rules on the recognition of these products.
in writing. ‒ it was easy for me to vote in favour of this proposal, since it is a simple codification of trade in products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. i agree with this because it simply aims at legislative clarification and also ensures greater transparency after the many amendments to this original legal instrument. it is, in my view, an improvement in the quality of regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a mere codification of existing acts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adapting european regulation 1528/2007.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying the arrangements for products originating in certain states which are members of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing, or leading to the establishment of, economic partnership agreements, because i believe it is important to maintain a form of economic support for those least developed countries in africa and the caribbean in the context of the international negotiation of trade partnership agreements. the vote at this part-session is limited to codifying legislation from 2007 which has been amended several times over the years, thus ensuring the values of legal certainty and transparency which are fundamental to the european union. i also share the merit of the choice, since supporting the world's poorest countries through quota-free and duty-free access to the eu market for products originating in those countries is a fair measure, pending wider agreements establishing regular trade cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote in favour of the report on products originating in certain acp states. the proposal is merely a codification of the existing provisions which have remained unchanged in substance. the market access regulation covers imports of products originating in certain acp countries, providing for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. the codification helps to ensure transparency and clarity in eu legislation, which is another reason why i am in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns a codification and recast of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called 'market access regulation', which governs imports of products originating in certain acp countries. the aim is to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation by codifying in a single legislative act provisions which are scattered across different acts or adopted at different times in order to make them easier to read and understand. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ whereas the current council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 on market access is a temporary instrument allowing products originating in non-member states to enter the european market, pending the conclusion of economic partnership agreements with these countries; the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the regulation, and the current proposal for codification is intended to simplify eu legislation, and the proposal for recasting certain paragraphs of the regulation is necessary in respect of substantial parts of this regulation. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the 'market access regulation' (mar), which governs imports of products originating in certain acp countries (africa, the caribbean and the pacific). the aim of the report is to consolidate in a single legislative act provisions which have hitherto been divided into several acts or adopted at different times. the aim is to facilitate the reading and understanding of these rules. this is a technical/legal act which has seen the council and parliament agree to the commission's proposal without proposing any amendments. i believe that european codification must always be able to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification. i therefore voted in favour of this report in the hope that it would help to rationalise eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today concerns a codification and recasting of the so-called 'market access regulation', which provides for quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states in the period preceding the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the main economic and political actor in sub-saharan africa. it is essential to ensure the development of the acp countries that the preferential concessions between the eu and the acp countries are reciprocal. the previous generations of agreements have generally failed to stimulate greater trade and to ensure economic growth that would improve the living conditions of some of the poorest countries on the planet. we need to change our approach to africa: from a continent starved and tormented by civil wars, to an emerging economy rich in opportunity.
in writing. ‒ the draft regrets that the role of the european parliament in the adoption of fisheries partnership agreements is reduced to a simple approval procedure; considers that the european parliament should play a more active role and be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures concerning the ppas and their subsequent renewals, in order to increase the transparency of the protocols. it also draws attention to some areas which need to be improved. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ greenland, which joined the ec in 1973 with denmark and then left in 1985 following a referendum, is now one of the union's overseas countries and territories (octs) under article 355 (2) tfeu. following a first fisheries partnership agreement signed in 1985, a second fisheries partnership agreement was concluded in 2006, which remained in force until 31 december 2015 to allow the renegotiation of the protocol to be aligned with the renewal and revision of other eu policy instruments, in particular the common fisheries policy (cfp), the overseas association decision and the eu-greenland partnership initiative. i supported the affronte report on the new partnership agreement with denmark and greenland because i am convinced of the possibilities offered by the new agreement both in economic terms, it will be the third most important in the sector for the whole union, and in terms of sustainability. the new protocol specifically provides for an eu financial contribution of eur 17.8 million per year, including a contribution for access to greenland's exclusive economic zone and support for its sectoral fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland has facilitated the activities of the member states' fleets and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland in the field of fisheries policy represents an important opportunity for all the contracting parties to continue a cooperation which has produced very positive results in all respects.
in writing. ‒ the first fisheries agreement between the eu and denmark/greenland dates back to 1985 and was applied for a period of 10 years with renewal periods of 6 years until it was replaced by the current fpa. the current fpa between the parties was signed in june 2006 and applied for six years (from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2012), with renewal periods of six years. the previous protocol was applied from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2015 for a period of three years; the duration has been shortened in order to align the renegotiation of the protocol with the renewal/revision of other relevant eu policy instruments, namely the cfp, the overseas association decision and the eu-greenland partnership initiative. after three rounds of negotiations, a new protocol was signed on 20 march 2015. it shall apply for a period of five years from the date of its provisional application. it is a multi-species agreement, and the third most important for the eu in terms of economic value.
in writing. ‒ an agreement that has allowed profitable fishing for eu fleets; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement today because it provides important economic benefits for both the eu and greenland and helps to ensure consistency with eu fishing activities in other areas of the region. in terms of economic value, the greenland agreement is the third most important for the eu. under the agreement, european vessels have gained access to important fishing opportunities in greenland with various benefits both for the eu's catch sector and in terms of employment. the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) as it strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland. it promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenlandic fishing zone. i regret, however, that parliament's role in the adoption of ppps is reduced to a simple approval procedure. i think that parliament should play a more active role and be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures concerning ppas or their renewals, in order to increase the transparency and democratic accountability of the protocols.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur regrets that the european parliament's role in the adoption of fisheries partnership agreements is limited to the approval procedure. the agreement in question is multi-species, covers a period of five years and provides for an overall annual financial contribution of eur 17 799 978 for the entire period. the rapporteur considers that the protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is clear that this agreement brings many benefits to both sides. virtually all greenland's exports of fishery products are destined for the eu: the agreement is the third most important for the eu in terms of economic value. the aim is to develop a sustainable fisheries policy with responsible exploitation of resources and to strengthen cooperation between the union and greenland. i could only vote in favour of this report because it represents a key economic engine for the european union, based on full respect for the sustainability of the resource.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership, as it strengthens cooperation between the european union and greenland and denmark, in the interests of all the actors concerned and in line with the relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the partnership agreement, which is the subject of the report, because of the importance of access to mixed fisheries in greenland waters for eu vessels, both in terms of the diversity of species caught and in terms of economic value.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the agreement which allows eu fleets to fish profitably.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland; fishing opportunities and financial compensation. this is a particularly developed sector, considering that fish represents almost 90% of exported products, and that in 2011 there were 1 238 full-time fishermen. this agreement gives eu vessels access to a wide range of fish stocks. the current protocol provides for an eu financial contribution of eur 17 850 000 per year. the eu shall pay a fixed annual financial contribution for access, irrespective of the fishing opportunities agreed under the protocol. if the agreed fishing opportunities are lower than the indicative fishing opportunities set out in the protocol, the protocol allows greenland either to offer the eu equivalent alternative fishing opportunities for the year in question, or to compensate the eu in the following year.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with 'third countries'. through the partnership agreements, the european union provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights in relation to a wide range of fishery resources in the partner country's exclusive economic zone. i voted in favour of the agreement with greenland, a country which, in terms of economic value, is the third most important in the eu.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and greenland; that the apa between the parties has been in force since 2006 and has been renewed several times; that the commission's analysis is that the renewal of the protocol would bring additional benefits to both the eu and greenland, allowing the former to fish in greenland and the latter to have a significant financial return as well as generating employment in the sector; that in the event of a fishing opportunity lower than that provided for in the protocol, greenland is under an obligation to return to the eu part of the amount received in return for the permit granted; the new protocol should increase the benefits in terms of sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and overcome the difficulties encountered so far, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 16 july 2015, in view of the expiry of the previous protocol, the commission adopted the proposals for the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland. the new protocol provides for an eu financial contribution of eur 17.8 million per year. it also promotes a favourable partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone. in terms of economic value, the greenland partnership agreement is the third most important for the eu. i believe that the content of this partnership agreement is in the interests of both parties. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the local government of greenland, on the other, promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland eez. the eu financial contribution will be eur 17,8 million per year for five years and will allow european fishing vessels access to mixed fisheries in greenland waters, in line with the relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus. i would remind you that the greenland agreement is the third most important agreement for the eu in terms of economic value. in 2013, the agreement generated €10 million in direct value for the eu's fisheries sector and a further €12 million in indirect value added in the upstream and downstream sectors. i therefore voted in favour of the new protocol, in view of the important economic benefits for both parties.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement concluded in 2006 between the european union, on the one hand, and denmark and greenland, on the other, as it is an important instrument for ensuring access to fishing for european fleets in the exclusive economic zone of the partner country, in this case greenland. the aim of the protocol is to maintain fishing opportunities for european vessels in greenland waters and thus to contribute to better management and conservation of fishery resources through sectoral support, in particular for monitoring domestic and foreign fleets, combating illegal fishing and developing local fisheries. in return, the eu will provide a financial contribution for access to greenland's fishing zone and support for greenland's sectoral fisheries policy. the text provides for regular monitoring of these measures, thus ensuring that the implementation of the partnership and the protocol is correct and reflects any changes in the situation.
in writing. ‒ this report, drawn up by our colleague marco affronte, on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union, denmark and greenland, is one of the most sustainable fisheries agreements in terms of exploitation of fish stocks. the agreement between the eu, denmark and greenland creates less inequality in the fisheries market as it is monitored, controlled and protected directly by the danish government. i voted in favour of this agreement for the purpose of applying the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea relating to the conservation and management of transnational and highly migratory fish stocks. i stress that it is in our interest to continue to promote responsible fishing in order to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources. i would also like to stress, in my vote in favour, certain aspects of the agreement which need to be improved, such as the importance of scientific data and the strict financial control of the financial contribution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mr koch's report on the new agreement on certain aspects of air services between the eu and macao. the text of the agreement, although technical in nature, introduces important innovations which modify certain requirements in the fields of safety, competition and fuel taxation. the new designation clause is one of the relevant aspects of the new legislation. it will enable all union carriers to benefit from the right of establishment. by going beyond the existing agreements and the repeated infringements of article 49 tfeu generated by them. in particular, the new rules will entail the amendment of the 15 existing air services agreements between the eu and the macao special administrative region of the prc.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr koch, which analyses some aspects of air services between the european union and macao, is acceptable and balanced and i intend to support it with my vote. i consider this text an improvement in terms of simplification, security and competition compared to previous bilateral agreements concluded; the eu and our markets will benefit most from the changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the renegotiation of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and macao, which the commission has completed, improves the previous agreement and better guarantees the principle of freedom of establishment for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ international air transport relations between the member states of the european union and a large number of third countries have so far been based mainly on bilateral international agreements, which have, however, led to repeated breaches of eu law and have resulted in significant distortions of competition, in particular by penalising european airlines operating from the territories of other member states. the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement on air transport between the eu and the government of the macao special administrative region (people's republic of china) thus makes it possible to correct the main distortions of competition and to bring the sector into line with european law. this type of initiative will also have to be promoted in other third countries where similar problems have been encountered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour: in 2002, the court of justice ruled that the designation clauses in bilateral agreements between member states and third countries in the air transport sector were unlawful. the report seems to be improving in terms of simplification, security and competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-macao agreement to replace certain provisions of the bilateral air services agreements concluded by the member states with macao. in the field of international air transport, relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air service agreements. however, the court of justice of the eu ruled in a 2002 judgment that the traditional designation clauses in bilateral air service agreements concluded by member states were unlawful. as established by the court, these clauses allow a third country to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisations or licences of an air carrier designated by a member state. the report makes the necessary changes to the existing agreements in order to bring them into line with the rules laid down by the court of justice and is therefore entirely in line with the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it argues for improving the regulation of certain aspects of air services between the european union and macao. the aim is to ensure that existing bilateral agreements are in conformity with eu law by amending and supplementing existing provisions in such a way as to ensure maximum respect for principles such as non-discrimination and fair competition. i think it is right and fundamental to ensure that nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment for a company in another member state receive the same treatment as that accorded by the host member state to its own nationals. i therefore voted in favour of this because i believe that this document shows the difference between a united europe not only on paper but also in practice.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the agreement replacing certain existing provisions in the 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the european union and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region implementing certain aspects of air services. the amendments replace the traditional designation clauses, allowing all eu air carriers to benefit from the right of establishment. i think it is important that the role of security and taxation has been given a central role in the bilateral agreement with the macao region, taking eu-macao cooperation in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report as it seems to be an improvement in terms of simplification, security and competition.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and macao. the agreement amends certain agreements which were in breach of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union by amending 15 bilateral air services agreements. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the field of international air transport, relations between member states and third countries are traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements. the commission has negotiated the agreement replacing certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the european union and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. i voted in favour of mr koch's report.
in writing. ‒ i considered it appropriate to express my positive vote on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the eu and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china, as the rapporteur dieter-lebrecht koch's proposal aims to ensure greater compatibility of air transport agreements with third countries with eu law. the previous provisions did not allow eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and this constituted a violation of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the field of international air transport, relations between eu member states and third countries are governed by bilateral air services agreements. the traditional designation clauses allowed a third country to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisations or licences of an air carrier designated by a member state but not substantially owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. the court of justice of the eu in 2002 considered this practice to be discriminatory against eu carriers established in the territory of one member state but owned or controlled by nationals of other member states. the commission therefore considered it necessary to negotiate the agreement replacing certain provisions of the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements between the member states of the european union and the macao special administrative region, which is part of the people's republic of china. in order to ensure a more efficient air transport market, i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the european parliament concludes the agreement replacing certain provisions of the 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the european union and the macao special administrative region. it concerns in particular the designation clause, certain provisions on security and taxation and the prohibition of any anti-competitive practices. the amendments will also simplify existing legislation. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal for an agreement replacing certain provisions in the existing bilateral air services agreements between the eu and macau, to allow equal treatment of all european airlines operating in that country and respect for competition rules. bilateral air service agreements between a member state and a third country must include an 'eu designation clause' recognising that the terms of the agreement also apply to all eu airlines and not just to the airlines of the member state concerned, in accordance with internal market rules and the right of establishment. under the 'traditional' designation clauses, the third country could refuse, revoke or suspend authorisations or licences if a significant proportion of the ownership and effective control of the carrier was not held by the designating member state. the text voted on today thus eliminates discrimination against european carriers established in the territory of one member state but owned or controlled by nationals of other member states, thus bringing bilateral agreements with macao into line with european law.
in writing. ‒ directive 2006/112/ec has codified, in a single act, all the changes made to vat at european level. the aforementioned directive has made it possible to harmonise the minimum level of taxable income between member states, fixing it at 15%, thus ensuring uniform tax treatment among european citizens. i believe, however, that the provision of a minimum level of vat common to the member states must also be accompanied by the identification of a maximum threshold, which will serve as a limit for the national authorities. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ directive 92/77/eec established a temporary scheme which introduced a system of minimum rates of taxation from 1 january 1993, thus avoiding the council's inability to adopt the measures proposed by the commission for the creation of a definitive tax harmonization scheme. the legislation, which has been extended several times, provides that a member state may not set a standard rate below 15%, thus ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and avoiding possible distortions of competition in tax matters. since 2011, the commission has announced, in a communication on the future of vat, the development of a plan to abandon the current mechanism and to set out definitive rules on value added tax. pending the implementation of this project, i have decided to vote in favour of the simon report extending the current provisions until december 2018.
in writing. ‒ the report has many criticisms and i do not agree with some of the points, so i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the renewal of the provision of directive 92/77/eec, which provides for a system of minimum rates of taxation where the standard rate could not be less than 15% in a given member state, until 31 december 2018 would provide legal certainty to interested parties and allow for a wider discussion on vat rates in relation to the commission's forthcoming vat action plan.
in writing. ‒ the vat directive provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate of vat cannot be lower than 15%. that provision, based on article 113 tfeu, provides that the council is to adopt provisions concerning the harmonisation of legislation on turnover taxes in so far as such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. a period of time is now needed in which the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% is maintained by extending the current legislation for three years (until 31 december 2018) in order to provide legal certainty to stakeholders and to allow for a broader discussion on vat rates in relation to the forthcoming vat action plan by the european union.
in writing. ‒ the measure extends the normal 'minimum' vat rate of 15% for all goods and services subject to it by one year (2018). the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax, as regards the duration of the obligation to apply a minimum standard rate, as i consider a minimum standard rate applied in all member states, as it is now, to be a useful guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market. the current provisions also allow member states a certain amount of flexibility. i therefore agree with the rapporteur on the commission's proposal to retain the principle of a minimum standard rate of 15% retroactively and i welcome the extension of the current provisions until 2018. in addition, this provides legal certainty for the parties concerned and allows for a wider discussion on vat rates.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from amending directive 2006/112/ec to extend the application of the harmonised minimum level of value added tax from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. the adaptation does not create any problems, but it is an incomplete provision, since the adaptation is not accompanied by a maximum threshold which cannot be exceeded by the various national authorities.
in writing. ‒ the harmonisation of european tax legislation has already led to some satisfactory results. those rules have in fact restricted the possibilities for undertakings to carry out crossborder transactions in search of lower vat rates and have curbed distortions of competition between member states. although there is still no unified vat system in the eu, the current directive is a useful guarantee for ensuring fair competition in the european market, by setting a minimum rate of 15% common to all member states. i voted in favour of the transitional measure extending the minimum rate until 2017 to avoid, pending the revision of european legislation, the possibility of accentuating the differences between the vat rates applied by the member states, causing structural imbalances within the union and consequently distortions of competition in certain sectors of the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims at establishing a definitive system of tax harmonisation. i believe that this is a step towards a stronger european union, because a minimum standard rate applied in all the member states, as is currently the case, is a useful guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market. that is why i voted in favour of extending this provision, for a more united europe not only on paper but also in practice, especially since the government is deciding these very days to lower the vat rate on truffles thanks to the pressure exerted by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i agree with mr simon that the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% should be retained retroactively and that the current provisions should be extended for three years (until 31 december 2018). this time frame would provide legal certainty to interested parties and allow for a broader discussion on vat rates in relation to the forthcoming vat action plan.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on all possible cases of inclusion of certain primary goods in the scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a council directive amending an earlier council directive on the common system of value added tax, as regards the duration of the obligation to apply a minimum standard rate of vat, because i agree with the commission's proposal to maintain a minimum vat rate of 15% for a transitional period. taxation remains a prerogative of the member states, and in expressing its opinion on this matter, the european parliament agreed to extend the principle that the standard vat rate, as proposed by the european commission, cannot be lower than 15% for the next three years, and thus until the end of 2018. in this connection, i believe that, in the context of the adoption of the forthcoming vat action plan, this decision is a measure to provide legal certainty to the parties concerned with a view to the adoption of a new system, and at the same time it allows for a wider discussion. the action plan will set out the guidelines for future work in the light of the results achieved since the presentation of the 2011 communication.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the application of a minimum standard rate of vat. it provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate may not be less than 15%. this will be a rule within the eu and is necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. given that all member states currently apply a standard rate above 15%, the current provisions on the minimum standard rate of 15% also provide for a margin of manoeuvre for member states, which can carry out vat reforms to reduce the flat rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates.
in writing. ‒ the system of a standard minimum vat rate has worked well for 20 years, and this consistency should continue to be maintained in our single market. i agree with the rapporteur that extending the rate until the end of 2018 will allow for a more constructive debate on the issue given the next vat action plan.
in writing. ‒ whereas the transitional arrangements provided for in council directive 92/77/eec on the common system of value added tax in the member states of the european union provide, in the context of a common system of minimum rates, that the standard rate may not be less than 15% in each member state; that this transitional arrangement has been extended several times and is a useful tool for the smooth functioning of the single market; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the taxation of savings income in the event of a tax dispute between the member states.
in writing. ‒ the previous vat directive provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate could not be lower than 15% in a given member state. the minimum rates for vat are justified by the fact that vat at the place of origin, rather than at the place of destination, is still applied to cross-border purchases and distance sales below a certain threshold. consequently, a minimum standard rate applied in all member states is a useful guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market. in 2016, the commission will publish an action plan for a definitive vat regime. pending final decisions, the commission proposes to maintain the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and to extend the current provisions for three years, until 31 december 2018. i believe that a fair and well-defined tax system is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ taxation is a sensitive issue for intra-european trade in the single market. the vat directive was introduced in 1993 alongside the single european market and stipulates that the standard rate within the eu cannot be lower than 15%. this ensures a minimum of harmonisation in tax matters, leaving room for manoeuvre to the member states while preventing distortions of competition. i voted in favour of renewing this directive for two reasons. firstly, because legal certainty in tax matters is a duty owed to traders and businesses; secondly, because this renewal will maintain this certainty for the time it takes for the commission to draw up its proposal for a reform of vat in intra-eu trade. we also call on the commission to consult parliament on the outcome of this reform, which is intended to establish a single and definitive system, moving from the application of vat at the place of origin to the application of vat at the place of destination of the product.
in writing. ‒ this report on the duration of the obligation to apply a minimum standard rate proposes to maintain a minimum standard rate of 15% for a further three years, until 31 december 2018. i voted in favour of the proposal because, apart from the fact that this extension has no impact on tax rates, since all member states currently apply a standard rate of 15% or more, it is above all a guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market. it reduces the possibilities for crossborder transactions in search of lower vat rates which would lead to a distortion of competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the technical report which retrospectively maintains the principle of a minimum standard rate of vat of 15% as laid down in the vat directive (directive 92/77/eec). in this respect, the minimum rates are justified by the fact that vat at the place of origin, rather than at the place of destination, is still applied to cross-border purchases and distance sales below a certain threshold. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the derogation to cover the whole of the community. moreover, since all member states currently apply a standard rate of taxation above 15%, the provisions on the minimum rate also provide a margin of manoeuvre for states wishing to reform this tax. however, the s&d group considers that approval of this extension is conditional on the presentation by the commission of an action plan for an effective vat system adapted to the single market, which provides for a reform to adapt the current rate rules to a definitive system, characterised by the principle of the country of destination.
in writing. ‒ we voted today for an amendment to directive 2006/112/ec to extend the application of the minimum harmonised level of value added tax of 15% between member states from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. this extension was made necessary in anticipation of the entry into force of the vat action plan to be adopted this month. the principle of fixing a minimum level of vat between member states seems incomplete unless it is accompanied by a maximum threshold which the various national authorities cannot exceed. since i do not agree with this "half-measure" i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to conclude a cooperation agreement between europol and the federative republic of brazil is justified by clear practical needs, aiming at intensifying the exchange of information on criminal investigations, crime prevention and strategic analysis. according to europol, brazil has played a key role in the fight against organised crime, illegal immigration and cybercrime. in view of these considerations, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement, believing that the strengthening of international cooperation could undoubtedly improve and facilitate the fight against organised crime in all its forms.
in writing. ‒ the council is responsible for approving, after consulting parliament, agreements between europol and third countries or international organisations, on the basis of article 23 of decision 2009/371/jha. the moraes report, which parliament voted on today and which i support, expresses a favourable opinion on the conclusion of a new strategic agreement between europol and the federative republic of brazil. the object of the agreement is the exchange of technical, operational and classified information, thus excluding the passing on of information on personal data. the current situation, linked to the holding of the olympic games in the south american country and to brazil's growing commitment to combating crime, fraud and human trafficking, makes it essential to develop in-depth relations in these areas. i supported the report of my colleague precisely because i strongly share the objective of establishing a strategic relationship by strengthening cooperation in law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for an agreement on strategic cooperation between the federative republic of brazil and europol. brazil is proving to be a very active strategic partner in the fight against crime, illegal immigration, human trafficking and illicit trafficking. i therefore voted in favour of the report, considering it essential to develop greater cooperation between the eu and brazil in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the conclusion of this agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol is an important instrument in the fight against organised crime and that it will ultimately increase the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement between the federal republic of brazil and europol is a welcome step, useful in the context of improved strategic and operational cooperation between the member states of the european union and partner countries in the fight against terrorism, mafias, smuggling and international crime.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the europol-brazil agreement. the proposal excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. it is considered important to develop cooperation between europol and brazil as the latter is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organised crime and activities such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud. the rapporteur also stresses that the 2016 olympic games are expected to see a significant increase in criminal activity.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the federative republic of brazil and europol. according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organized and common crime. moreover, as with any major sporting event, the 2016 olympic games are expected to see a significant increase in criminal activity. finally, brazil is also a country of particular interest in the field of counter-terrorism and asset recovery. strategic cooperation with brazil and other countries with a strategic role is an aid and support in the fight against crime and strengthens international action in financial investigations but also in all other cases of breach of the law.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. this excludes the exchange of personal data (and the issue is therefore not relevant), but police cooperation with third countries is of primary importance. according to europol, brazil is also becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organized crime and activities such as facilitating illegal immigration and human trafficking, drug-related crimes and cybercrime. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the report is to authorise europol to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with the federative republic of brazil; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of an agreement allowing the exchange of strategic, technical, operational and classified information. i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement because i believe that not only close cooperation between the member states of the union but also a strong partnership with third countries is of fundamental importance for an effective fight against crime, and in particular organised crime. in particular, effective cooperation must be based on mutual trust, the most obvious sign of which is the exchange of information. in fact, what often prevents the identification of crimes and responsibilities is the fact that the national authorities have only a partial framework which, if completed, would make it possible to combat criminal phenomena of transnational dimension with a major impact on the lives and safety of citizens. i believe that the agreement between europol and brazil will make it possible to combat crime much more effectively and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it was easy to express support for this report as it represents the intention to establish a relationship of mutual cooperation between brazil and europol in the prevention and fight against organised crime. i believe that this agreement will be of great help in the fight against all forms of crime, especially at a difficult time like this. i believe that, particularly in view of the recent terrorist attacks, any form of cooperation and exchange of information is a valuable support. it was therefore my duty to speak in favour of this, because i believe that everything possible must be done to make europe safer.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil, as brazil has taken on a very important role on the international scene in the fight against organised crime and activities such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related offences and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime activities. the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data and focuses on the exchange of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ in a context of multiple threats, the eu needs to strengthen its police tool, europol, by increasing its role in the field of international intelligence. more than ever, the exchange of information is a priority and a key element in strengthening the fight against terrorism and all other forms of crime. in this regard, a number of strategic cooperation agreements on the exchange of information have already been concluded between europol and third countries. these agreements allow europol to access information that is important for the security of european citizens. as has been demonstrated in many past cases, brazil is a key partner for the eu in the fight against various threats and it is precisely to enable the eu, through europol, to be more effective against terrorism and organised crime that i have chosen to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol. in view of the difficult and complex times europe and the international community as a whole are going through, an effective exchange of information at global level is needed now more than ever. in particular, brazil is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organised crime and human trafficking. improving information sharing between judicial authorities will reduce legal loopholes and deficiencies that criminals benefit from.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report to ensure greater cooperation between europol and brazil in the fight against crime.
in writing. i support the proposal to conclude the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil to prevent and combat any form of terrorism and/or organised crime. the agreement includes the exchange of information useful for the prevention of these crimes and implies the establishment of a system of continuous advice and support. given the tension in europe following the various terrorist attacks that have shocked some of the major european capitals, i believe it is essential to strengthen agreements with foreign countries, thus creating greater security across borders. our priority must be the safety of our citizens, and all cooperation and information exchange is welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol. this strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil excludes the exchange of personal data, but includes expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations and more. as brazil is gaining a steadily growing prominence in the fight against organized crime and activities such as illegal immigration and human trafficking, i am also in favour of these reasons.
in writing. ‒ brazil is a particularly important partner in the fight against organised crime, so i supported the moraes resolution to extend europol's cooperation with the south american state. in view of the upcoming international events in brazil, we should work together to ensure security on both sides of the atlantic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol as i believe it can be a support to the fight against organised crime and to strengthen international cooperation in law enforcement. this strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, as well as the provision of advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, mr claude morales, because i believe that the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil could allow a useful exchange of information between the two parties on sensitive issues such as the fight against organised crime, illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2009/371/jha, it is for the council to approve the conclusion of international cooperation agreements between europol and third countries or international organisations, after consulting the european parliament. the proposal under consideration concerns the proposal to approve the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. that strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data. the question of data protection is therefore not relevant in this case. according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime as the south american country is becoming an increasingly important hub for financial and economic crime. moreover, as with every major sporting event, the 2016 olympic games are expected to see an increase in criminal activity. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that cooperation between the eu and brazil can be a real support in the international fight against financial fraud and in strengthening cooperation in criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil because i believe that it is of paramount importance in strengthening the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. under the provisions of the agreement, the information exchanged should include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis and information on criminal investigation procedures. in addition, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, provision of advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations will also have to be included.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the council decision authorising europol (european police office) to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with brazil to combat organised crime and terrorism. according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organised crime and activities such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related offences and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime activities. in addition, as with any major sporting event, the 2016 olympic games in brazil are expected to see a significant increase in criminal activity, in which case such an agreement could be particularly useful in strengthening international law enforcement cooperation. the agreement provides for the exchange of information, expertise, strategic analysis, information on criminal proceedings and support in criminal investigations, while excluding the exchange of personal data altogether.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs and justice and in the absence of a fumus persecutionis, i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of mr hermann winkler, who is the subject of a preliminary investigation by the public prosecutor's office in leipzig.
in writing. ‒ the revocation is requested on the basis of the charge of dangerous driving and drunk driving causing a road accident. there does not appear to be any exemption clauses under article 9 of the rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns a preliminary investigation into a serious road accident which took place on 23 september 2015 and in which hermann winkler, member of the european parliament, was involved. since the alleged offence is not connected with the mandate of a member of the european parliament, the parliamentary immunity should be waived. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr winkler's immunity as the alleged offence is not related to the role he currently holds and there is no reason, as the juri committee believes on the basis of the information it has obtained, to believe that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr hermann winkler because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in these cases a guarantor's line must be followed, and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity against my colleague hermann winkler, because, on the basis of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu, immunities must be recognised for actions and opinions expressed in the exercise of his functions. however, in the present case, the preliminary investigation against mr winkler concerns an action which is outside his parliamentary functions.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr hermann winkler. i voted for the waiver of mr hermann winkler's immunity because i believe that it is appropriate to allow the german prosecutor general to carry out the appropriate investigations. the request concerns a preliminary investigation into a serious road traffic accident which took place on 23 september 2015 and in which hermann winkler was involved. however, i would like to stress that my vote in favour of this recall does not imply a judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the member.
in writing. ‒ in 2004, a working group was set up at the un general assembly to address the issue of conservation and sustainable use of marine resources in areas not under national jurisdiction. in order to create coordinated action with member states, the last report of 2015 stressed the need to develop a legally binding instrument at international level on the law of the sea and, in particular, on the protection of marine biodiversity. in this way, a comprehensive global regime is finally established for those areas which, lacking national jurisdiction, are not subject to any form of control. for these reasons i voted in favour, believing that the eu should have a positive influence on the work of the committee responsible for drawing up the document, thus ensuring that the issue is given the right importance.
in writing. ‒ seas and oceans cover 71% of the earth's surface and contain 97% of the planet's water, representing an incomparable heritage in terms of biodiversity. the european union has played and continues to play a key role in the protection of marine habitats and ecosystems, with its participation in several international fisheries management organisations and its ongoing work to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. the nicolai report, which i supported with my vote, reiterates the need for the eu to play a proactive role in ensuring a real assertion of science-based marine governance by supporting the draft of a new international agreement at the un that complements the previous agreement on the conservation of fisheries resources (unfsa) signed in 1995. only through a joint commitment at the global level will it be possible to act to stem the consequences of climate change and ocean acidification and the negative impacts of overexploitation, pollution, waste and the destruction of marine habitats and ecosystems
in writing. ‒ although the text is partially agreeable, it is unclear and contains some passages which could be critical for the sector over time. for all these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the european union's task to maintain its leading role in the field of the law of the sea and fisheries and that it is necessary to use this role to achieve the adoption of an instrument that disciplines the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction in an international and compelling manner.
in writing. ‒ marine activities are developing and multiplying at a rapid pace, and so the pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity is continuously increasing. the international community recognises the need for an international approach to managing pollution, environmentally degrading human activities and, in general, threats to marine biodiversity. a legally binding international instrument to protect marine biodiversity should be presented by the end of 2017 in the framework of the international convention on the law of the sea.
in writing. ‒ the report promotes an internationally legally binding instrument under the un convention on the law of the sea for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'fishing aspects in the framework of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction, united nations convention on the law of the sea' because i believe that the united nations intervention aimed at the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction is right and most appropriate. the proliferation of marine activities and the increasing pressure on marine sustainability no longer make it possible to delay conservation action, but the development of a legally binding international instrument that is truly effective and well coordinated in marine biology must necessarily also cover fishing activities, among the main marine activities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the shipping industry is taken into account. care must be taken not to underestimate anything and to take into account all the aspects that an international agreement requires, but at the same time it is necessary to respect the 2017 deadline for its drafting.
in writing. ‒ the un general assembly working group on the effectiveness of the current framework in addressing the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction stressed in its latest report the need for a comprehensive global regime and recommended the development of an internationally legally binding instrument. parliament is speaking in order to influence the position of the united nations preparatory committee and, for the rapporteur, it is extremely important that fisheries activities be included in the new instrument. i fully share this approach and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the increasing development of maritime activities is undermining the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity, including in areas outside national jurisdiction. the ad hoc working group established by the un general assembly to address the issue identified the need for international coordination for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and sees the creation of a legally binding international instrument, under the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos), as the most effective way to address the issue globally. the group is already working on the definition of the instrument which should be ready for 2017 in view of the international conference. i believe, as i also said in the report voted in plenary and on which i voted in favour, that this is a path that is now mandatory, but i believe that it is necessary for the new instrument to also include fishing activities, which are among the main causes of the loss of marine biodiversity. in order to make the instrument more effective, i believe that instruments should also be provided for the responsibility of all the actors involved and i hope that the european commission will take up the points made by the house.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as this report aims to develop a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction. i believe that a concrete and effective response is needed to the increase in marine activities which are increasingly multiplying and developing in the european area. a response that protects marine biodiversity from the growing dangers it faces, such as pollution or illegal fishing. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i feel particularly sensitive to this subject and i feel that my vote in favour was a responsible expression of an international modernisation which is increasingly concerned with the collective good that the sea represents.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report to support the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop, by 2017, a legally binding international instrument in the context of unclos, on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it commits the commission, within the framework of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, to play a leading role in creating a legally binding international instrument guaranteeing the conservation and proper use of marine resources in high seas areas. we cannot allow activities such as unregulated or undeclared fishing or, even worse, pollution and dumping of waste at sea to endanger our marine ecosystems for all that they represent from an environmental, economic and social point of view.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the report seems to lay down too legally binding instruments.
in writing. – i supported this report because it is very important that the european union lead the way in the process of finding more sustainable ways to use the resources of the sea and to protect the sea’s biodiversity. a sustainable way to use the sea is especially important in areas where there is currently no jurisdiction as we can have no control over activities in these areas.
in writing. i welcome the report by my colleagues on the committee on fisheries, in which the european parliament takes positive note of the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop a legally binding international instrument in the context of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity. promoting the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity is essential for our continent, and will be even more effective if we apply modern and sustainable approaches to the management of marine ecosystems, the principles of ocean governance and the management of the exploitation of marine resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on fisheries aspects in the framework of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction, the un convention on the law of the sea, because i think it is based on a balanced and positive approach to one of the major challenges of the european fisheries sector, namely the achievement of the necessary balance between sustainability and biodiversity protection on the one hand, and economic activities and fisheries on the other. since 1995, the international community has recognized the environmental impact of human activities on biodiversity and has taken important initiatives such as the signing of the unfsa, the establishment of specific working groups and, finally, the mandate to draft an internationally binding text by 2017. the eu, with its common fisheries policy, has always promoted very high environmental standards at international level, combining blue growth and environmental protection. i also welcome the calls for the fight against illegal and unreported fishing, the need for better data on marine biodiversity in european seas and the call to take a leading role in the fight against plastic waste at sea.
in writing. i support this report on the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos). as reported by the united nations, it is our duty to find a system of inter-agency laws to manage marine pollution and to safeguard the biodiversity in our waters. in its latest report, the general assembly stresses the need to formulate a global system capable of developing rules of international validity, which go beyond national laws. the eu is therefore committed to pursuing a process of adopting legal measures on fishing activities and the protection of marine airspace, thus contributing to the progress of a global project of considerable importance.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas not under national jurisdiction. the report welcomes the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop an international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction by 2017. the report highlights the importance of including fisheries-related activities in this new instrument and the key role that the eu must play in the expansion of this new instrument and in the implementation process.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report by mr nicolai on the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop a legally binding international instrument in the context of the unclos (un convention on the law of the sea) on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction by 2017. the report stresses the importance of including fisheries-related activities in this new instrument and the key role that the eu should play in the development of this new instrument and in the implementation process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur, norica nicolai, on the need to include fisheries in the international agreement on biodiversity. the united nations has on several occasions addressed the problem of protecting the world's waters, thus acknowledging the real danger of water pollution and the need for sustainable development. the latest un report also stressed the need to establish a comprehensive global regime for the conservation and protection of marine biodiversity in areas not under the jurisdiction of any state and to adopt a binding legal system. in this sense, it seems to me that the proposal of my colleague is in the same direction as the work of the united nations and that the inclusion of fisheries activities, as well as the proposal for greater coordination between member states, should be encouraged at european level.
in writing. ‒ in 1995, the united nations adopted the agreement on the conservation of fishery resources (unfsa). one of the main objectives of this agreement was to promote international cooperation and coordination for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction. finally, the united nations general assembly has succeeded in bringing the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction to a point where it is possible to provide for an internationally legally binding instrument, which also includes fishing activities. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report, with the hope that the eu can continue to play a leading role in the development of this new instrument and in the process of its implementation.
in writing. ‒ with today's report, which addresses the issue of international governance of areas beyond national jurisdiction or high seas, the european union renews its commitment, alongside the united nations, to tackling the challenges associated with the conservation and sustainable use of marine areas. in this context, the report supports the decision to develop a legally binding international instrument, under the un convention on the law of the sea, to promote international cooperation and coordination for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in high seas areas. i voted in favour of the report because i hope that this new instrument can offer effective solutions to problems such as illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, pollution and marine litter, which seriously damage marine habitats and ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text in which parliament expresses its position on the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop a legally binding international instrument in the context of the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos) focusing on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas not under national jurisdiction, with a view to addressing current shortcomings. currently, the united nations fish stocks agreement (unfsa) exists within the unclos framework, and is considered a good multilateral agreement that establishes a legal framework for the management of marine resources to address problems such as marine pollution, invasive human activities and other phenomena that threaten marine biodiversity. by the end of 2017, the united nations should present a new legally binding multilateral agreement to include fisheries in the regulatory framework, building on the unfsa agreement now in force. this is an important step in the development of the blue economy, which has enormous potential for growth and jobs and should be achieved within the ecological limits of the marine environment, in particular through responsible and sustainable fishing.
in writing. ‒ the union's zootechnical legislation aims to promote the free trade of breeding animals and their genetic material, ensuring the sustainability of the programme and the preservation of genetic resources. the basic principles for breeding animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species are laid down in the regulation. i decided to abstain in this vote because we would like to see a clear distinction between cloning and the use of germ-matter.
in writing. ‒ the rearing of pigs, cattle, sheep, goats and horses is a huge asset for the union. it occupies a key position within the agricultural sector and represents an important source of income for a large part of the farming community. the dantin report, which i voted on today in parliament, dealt with the zootechnical and genealogical conditions applicable to trade and imports of breeding animals and their germinal products within the union. i have supported this proposal because i believe it is important to support the work of the many breeders' associations which are at the forefront of defending genetic diversity in europe. the commission's proposal for a regulation aims to unify and simplify the existing legislation, which is now defined by four different acts. the new rules will clarify the rules on animal husbandry, leading to greater protection of the great cultural heritage of thousands of native species which have adapted over the centuries to the different regions of the continent.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with much of the text, i believe that it adds new burdens to the livestock sector by leaving some disciplinary aspects of relations with third countries unclear. i do not think it is appropriate to give my full support to this report, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that by regulating the trade in and import of breeding animals and their germinal products in a uniform manner throughout europe, it would bring many benefits both from an economic and legal point of view.
in writing. ‒ the production and breeding of domestic animals with particular genetic characteristics and the trade of their germinal material to encourage their reproduction have long been recognised and encouraged as some of the main factors capable of ensuring high product quality and protecting the food safety of european consumers. in this sense it is right to try to group together the various european regulations already existing in this field and to harmonize the national ones in order to simplify the rules in the sector and to eliminate those superfluous technical barriers which often penalize international trade. in the context of this harmonization work, in continuity with the advice given by the committee on the environment, it is however necessary to promote high and effective standards and control mechanisms, for example by supporting a policy of competitiveness of european large breeds which is conscious, respects the various local breeds and thus protects biodiversity, and by promoting a privileged role of the international committee for the control of livestock performance in the development of zootechnical legislation. all this while paying particular attention to the welfare and safety of the animals.
in writing. ‒ the measure is very technical; over the past 20 years, the commission has had to respond to a significant number of complaints from breeders and operators carrying out genetic programmes concerning the timing of the transposition and interpretation at national level of union legal acts on reproduction in the various member states. in order to ensure the uniform application of union rules on breeding and to avoid obstacles to trade in breeding animals and their germinal products due to divergent transpositions of those directives at national level, a 'framework' text is proposed which undoubtedly adds burdens to operators. while recognising that such detailed legislation is also a minimal 'barrier' to reciprocity in trade agreements with non-eu countries, some references such as 'non-discrimination' with respect to the (generic) country of origin of animals do not allow us to give full support to the measure. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to promote the free trade of breeding animals and their genetic material, while ensuring the sustainability of breeding programmes and the preservation of genetic resources. in addition, this report simplifies various provisions in various regulations by finally bringing together in a single legal framework the principles governing the recognition and listing of breeding organisations, breeders' associations and private undertakings, the approval of their breeding programmes, the entry of bovine, ovine, caprine and equine animals in the respective stud books and their classification according to their genetic merits, the entry of hybrid breeding pigs in registers, performance testing and genetic evaluation, and the content of zootechnical certificates for breeding animals, their semen and ova and embryos. in addition, that report lays down rules on imports of breeding animals from third countries and improves the legal framework for such imports by creating a model pedigree and zootechnical certificate providing information on the descent, identification and, where appropriate, genetic evaluation of breeding animals and their germinal products.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation is part of the eu's zootechnical legislation package which aims to promote the free trade of breeding animals and their genetic material while ensuring the sustainability of breeding programmes. the proposal contains clarification of the regulatory framework for the recognition of breeding societies, a clearer definition of the term 'breeding animal' and introduces the possibility for breeding operations to produce performance tests according to the different registered breeds. in these respects, the proposal is certainly to be welcomed. however, i decided to abstain because it would have been preferable if the regulation had not dealt with the issue of clones, which in my view should be included in a separate legislative package.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to replace the current rules on animal husbandry to clarify the obstacles raised in the previous legislation with more precise language and better structural organisation. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal to improve it represents a major step forward in the regulation of livestock farming at european level. for example, it is intended to guarantee a minimum level of rights and obligations for farmers or to simplify official controls and commission controls without reducing efficiency and quality. i will always be in favour of relations aimed at better regulation, with the aim of simplifying bureaucracy and thus the lives of citizens on the one hand, and protecting the quality of our european products on the other. this report is also a simple improvement in the quality of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to regulate current intra-eu trade practices in productive animals and their genetic material, safeguarding the process of selection and conservation of genetic products and protecting the welfare and reproduction of the different animal breeds present on european territory.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material. the proposal has already been approved by the agri committee and is now before the plenary for final approval. it should be recalled that the rearing of animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species plays a strategic role in eu agriculture, both in economic and social terms. for this reason i would have preferred that the proposal made a clearer distinction between cloning and the use of germ in farmed animals. the best way to encourage the breeding of animals of the species mentioned is certainly the use of purebred animals or hybrid pigs of high genetic quality. i am satisfied with the wording of the proposal for a regulation, however, and i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament intends to approve the proposal for a regulation on the zootechnical conditions governing trade in and the entry into the eu of breeding animals and their germinal products. eu legal acts should promote breeding and breeding enhancement initiatives and the competitiveness of the livestock sector without endangering the conservation of breeds and their biodiversity. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out in detail the rights and obligations of breeders, breeding bodies and breeding operations, while at the same time safeguarding genetic resources, local breeds and endangered breeds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion. the adoption of a clear and simplified regulatory framework responds to the needs of farmers and consumers. the flexibility guarantee allows industry operators to outsource testing and performance evaluation, ensuring that measures are proportionate and aligned with actual risks.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because some of the references in the text are not fully agreeable.
in writing. – i voted ‘yes’ to this proposal on the grounds that there is a need for a single legal framework surrounding breeding organisations, breed classifications and genetic evaluation. this proposal will also broaden this single legal framework to the imports of breeding animals and their germinal products from third countries. this will allow this part of the agricultural sector to operate with more certainty and on a more open and secure internal market where everyone is playing by the same rules. i hope that legal certainty and a secure market can be the key drivers for growth in the animal husbandry sector, in particular for italy, where we have more than 10 million livestock units.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a final agreement with the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions applicable to trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products, because i believe that the livestock sector is a key sector in the european economic fabric and therefore needs regulatory certainty and clarity. this is a sector which characterizes the territories and regions of all the member states not only from an economic point of view but also from a cultural and social point of view. i therefore support the agreement reached between parliament and the council, which takes account of the suggestions and additions made by parliament. finally, i welcome the introduction of the definition of 'breed' in the legislation, since this choice is in the direction of ensuring regulatory certainty, as is the provision concerning breeding organisations, which will have a single procedure for their recognition and identification.
in writing. i am in favour of the proposal to regulate zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the marketing and import of animals and products derived from them. the legislation is not only intended to simplify trade in them, while maintaining effective controls, but also to safeguard the process of selecting and preserving genetic products, and to preserve the welfare and reproduction of the various animal breeds present in european territory, with particular attention to endemic species. the provision of a single legislation for the member states of the union will also allow us to improve current trade practices between member states.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the report on the proposal for a european parliament regulation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions applicable to trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the union zootechnical legislation aims to facilitate the import of breeding animals and their genetic material, while ensuring the conservation of genetic resources.
in writing. ‒ the eu has legislation on animal husbandry to encourage free trade between the 28 countries and to facilitate the import of breeding animals. this regulation has brought together all the existing legislation on this subject. sustainability and conservation of breeds is of great importance to the eu. finally, i voted in favour of the proposal, considering that further improvements in european legislation on this subject are not only necessary but also possible.
in writing. ‒ the commission wanted to bring together all the directives relating to the zootechnical legislation of the various species in a single legal corpus in the form of a regulation. this is a harmonized structure of animal selection which will have a significant impact on the animal genetics sector in europe. the european union's zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade within the eu and to facilitate the import of breeding animals and their genetic material, while ensuring the sustainability of breeding and conservation programmes for genetic resources and thus for all breeds existing in europe today. i welcome the commission's simplification work and i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which envisages the grouping of all the directives relating to the zootechnical legislation for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species into a single, simpler and more harmonised horizontal directive. the new regulation will facilitate the free trade of high-quality breeding animals and their germinal material by contributing to the preservation of animal breeds across the eu and by improving cooperation between the competent authorities of the different member states in this regard. moreover, the regulation will be clearer and more consistent, thanks to a more precise and defined wording. the report also introduces simplified rules on official controls and special provisions for rare or endangered breeds and the equine sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because the phenomenon of migration is the consequence of epochal geopolitical changes which we cannot stop, but which the european union must address by setting priorities in dealing with a situation which is no longer an emergency. priority of method, priority of content: we must move forward together and have a european approach, we cannot continue to see, every day more, even member states erecting walls and putting up barbed wire and others who are instead engaged in search and rescue at sea of migrants, and then content because i come from sicily, which is one of those regions that sees the lifeless bodies of men, women and children coming to its shores and turning schools into morgues. the dublin review provides for the creation of a single asylum system with centralised handling of applications at european level, automatic and effective relocation of migrants to all european countries and safe returns; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is parliament's response to the current migration crisis. i think the strength of this report is that it is shared by the vast majority of the political groups, which makes it possible for parliament to send a strong signal to the commission and the council. in particular, the part concerning the revision of the dublin iii regulation can lead to a management of the migration crisis based on the principle of solidarity and not merely on the allocation of competences. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ according to data provided by frontex, in 2015 1.83 million people attempted to cross the external borders of the european union. this is an unprecedented figure, the result of an international situation characterized by wars, severe imbalances and instability which threaten the lives of millions of people. in this context, it is clear that the current asylum system is not able to provide an adequate solution. i supported the metsola and kyenge reports because i strongly share the need to think holistically about the management of migration flows. the revision of the dublin system must be given priority, and provision must be made for the establishment of hotspots from which to start distributing asylum seekers on the basis of a pre-established system of quotas for each member state. the aim should be to draw up new agreements at community level on readmission, so that member states can only return migrants if their country of origin is considered safe. article 80 tfeu puts the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility at the heart of the whole union system, and italy and greece cannot be left alone.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution voted today, which sends a positive signal towards a shared and effective approach to managing the migration crisis facing europe. the current system for managing asylum flows and applicants, in particular the so-called 'dublin system', has proved to be unsuccessful in the face of the challenges we face and needs to be revised as soon as possible. the creation of a centralised asylum system, based on fair burden-sharing and therefore consistent with the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, is essential to respond effectively to today's challenges in the full spirit of the union. in line with this, the proposed global approach is moving in the right direction: the implementation of member states' relocation obligations, increased shared efforts in controlling external borders and combating trafficking in human beings, as well as the development of adequate legal migration channels and the development of effective cooperation strategies with third countries are some of the aspects to be worked on if the union is to remain strong even in times of serious difficulties. with the immigration strategic plan just presented, italy has already sent an important signal in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is essential to find a common approach between all the member states of the union and its institutions in order to deal decisively and effectively with the migration crisis affecting the southern coasts of our continent.
in writing. ‒ 2015 was a very difficult year for the phenomenon of the influx of refugees and migrants into the eu, with over 1.5 million people trying to enter europe illegally, over 1 million applications for international protection and some 4 000 tragic deaths in the mediterranean. it is therefore necessary to promote a european approach by encouraging the establishment of a centralised system for the collection of asylum applications, the effective application of the common european asylum system, the fight against human traffickers and the strengthening of the role of the european asylum support office, all in the context of a more comprehensive review of the dublin system. we must also fight, by strengthening cooperation and funding to third countries within the framework of existing dialogue mechanisms such as the rabat process, or the eu-africa dialogue on migration and mobility, on the structural causes of the current migration crisis (including wars and persecution), while keeping in mind the growing need, due to the progressive ageing of the european population, to integrate more people of working age into the european labour market, as well as respect for the values of solidarity and humanity that underpin our identity as european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report by the rapporteurs metsola for the people's party and kyenge for the socialists is a classic example of the work of the grand coalition of the epp and s&d. in short, it is a great compromise (very unbalanced on the left) between those who want an open door policy, such as the socialists and other left groups, and those who, like the epp and also the ecr in this case, are afraid to oppose this policy openly and therefore try to buffer it by demanding only more rules and procedures. a relationship that has seen from its birth our work as shadow rapporteurs with ms. fontana. we therefore confirm the negative vote in the libe committee.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to immigration. the serious immigration crisis continues to be exploited. the plan to relocate refugees arriving in europe has failed because of the closed-minded attitude of some member states. on 20 march 2016, the agreement between europe and turkey on the management of the flow of migrants, signed in brussels, entered into force. doubts and misgivings were expressed on several sides about this agreement. the european union must take responsibility for safely guiding and supporting those who enter the european political and legal area, in compliance with human rights and international agreements. a global approach is needed to tackle the situation, for example by launching cooperation programmes to reduce the causes of immigration. what has been done so far is still very little.
in writing. ‒ the report is intended to express parliament's position on the current migration crisis and was intended to inform the eu's migration agenda. unfortunately, the sensitivity of the subject has led to considerable delays in the presentation of the report and, by the time of the vote in plenary, the commission will have already presented its agenda. however, especially with regard to the revision of the dublin iii regulation, the report can still be of relevance and the proposals made in this regard are highly agreeable. they aim at a system in which the responsibilities of the member states in the distribution of refugees are actually based on the principle of solidarity. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ it was important for me to vote in favour of this report because it first of all summarises the current situation in the mediterranean and the european union's response to the migratory flow, and moreover it is concerned with building new bonds of solidarity between the different member states with the aim of providing a concrete and immediate reaction to the increase in irregular arrivals by sea as well as the alarming increase in deaths at sea. it is clear that a better response is needed from europe and i therefore believe that it is necessary for each state to invest more resources in the context of a humanitarian operation at union level dedicated to rescuing and assisting migrants in danger. i therefore believe that the european union must take a global approach to the problem with the active participation of each member state.
in writing. ‒ these days we are witnessing yet another sad reality in which we see some member states erecting anti-refugee barriers instead of rolling up their sleeves as many european countries are doing, first of all italy, which has seen more than 19 000 people arrive on its shores since 1 january, not to mention all those who will arrive from here in the coming months taking advantage of the favourable weather situation. of the more than 40,000 people that italy was supposed to distribute to europe, only a small percentage has been relocated to date, this is because the relocation system is completely bankrupt: there is no solidarity, no cooperation, no fair sharing of responsibility. i believe that under these conditions, member states which are indifferent to the cause should not benefit from european funding. a long-term strategy would be needed to help tackle the 'push factors' (conflict, persecution, ethnic cleansing, extreme poverty, violence, climate change and natural disasters) that force people into the hands of criminal networks of traffickers, who see them as the only way to reach europe.
in writing. ‒ the relocation of asylum seekers between member states, the smuggling of migrants and the management of the eu's internal and external borders are topical issues that require a unified response by all member states, in the short and long term, that is consistent with the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility laid down in article 80 tfeu. my vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution is intended to support the eu's action for a comprehensive management of migration. i believe that this resolution introduces a fair and homogeneous approach between member states in dealing with common issues, such as the relocation and resettlement of refugees at eu level. in this respect, i support the proposal to revise the dublin iii regulation, which has proved inadequate in relation to the migratory pressure on the countries of first arrival, especially in terms of financial assistance and assistance to the hotspots, and which derogates from the fundamental principles of fairness and solidarity in the allocation of powers and responsibilities between the member states. i therefore welcome the option of establishing a centralised european system for the collection of asylum seekers' applications and their distribution within the eu.
in writing. ‒ in the report we are called upon to vote on, we welcome the efforts made to highlight the inadequacy of current migration and asylum policies at european and international level and the need for greater harmonisation. we particularly agree on the part concerning the revision of the dublin system, in order to give effect to the principle of solidarity and to establish fair criteria for the distribution of responsibility between member states in the distribution of refugees. we expect the member states and the european union to show the political will to act to address the root causes of migration flows, namely the situations of war, poverty, corruption, hunger and lack of opportunities, to which the sale of arms, the financial and political support for dictatorial regimes and the exploitation of the resources of third countries have contributed.
in writing. mr kyenge has done a very valuable job of analysis and elaboration on the sensitive subject of immigration policy reform. in recent months, as we know, the refugee emergency has disruptively shaped our news and public debate. the text we voted for is a very responsible approach, stressing in particular the need for a comprehensive reform of the migration phenomenon, for which ordinary choices and legislation are certainly not enough, but which requires a strong political will based on solidarity between european states and on solving the root causes of the flows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to immigration, because i shared the main idea behind this own-initiative report, which was intended to give the commission precise guidance on the migration problem and to send clear signals to the council on the urgency and the need to review the dublin rules, which have been superseded by the crisis, through a european binding mechanism, as we are faced with a european problem. i have shared the ep's demands, and particularly the european asylum, a binding resettlement mechanism which aims to overcome the dublin regulation with a european reception system, so that asylum is no longer sought in italy or greece but in the eu. the member states are therefore called upon to fulfil their obligations to relocate asylum seekers within the eu, in accordance with the principle of solidarity and full sharing of common responsibilities. i also shared the need for a binding mechanism to resettle a significant number of asylum seekers directly from refugee camps in third countries to the member states, the so-called 'humanitarian corridors'. now is the time for legislative action.
in writing. i have expressed my positive opinion on this proposal in the light of the need to create a holistic system for economic and political cooperation between eu member states on the migration crisis. in the current scenario, there is an urgent need to reassess the policies envisaged for the management of migration flows, asylum and european borders. the border states, and italy in particular, cannot be left alone, as they are unable to resolve the migration crisis, which has reached epochal proportions. this is a global problem which must therefore be solved globally, taking into account the aspects of welcome and solidarity, together with the necessary safety profiles for citizens. i thank the rapporteurs for their work, which has lasted over a year, and for the definition of the european parliament's position on a very sensitive subject, which will serve as a basis for the work on the legislative packages now under review. concrete actions are needed, such as the revision of the dublin convention, the provision of resources to deal with the crisis and the definition of a common and coordinated policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to immigration. the report assesses the various policies at play in the areas of immigration, asylum and border management. it would also be the first step towards the subsequent adoption of eu guidelines on the crucial migrant node, based on a model that revolves around the principles of full responsibility sharing and solidarity.
in writing. ‒ this is an important report that will transform the eu's approach to migration. i am glad to see that the report calls for an end to the dublin mechanism, which has disproportionately affected greece, italy and malta. a united europe requires that everyone shares the responsibility, both in terms of the number of migrants and the financial burden. moving forward, it is also important to remember the problems of security, namely the control of the external borders, as well as the monitoring of what is happening inside them, and the recent attacks in brussels demonstrate the urgency of improved controls in europe. i agree with my colleague, mr metsola, that there is no magic wand or perfect solution to this problem, but we are taking the right steps and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ given the considerable pressure on european borders, particularly those of the member states with mediterranean coastlines, the volumes involved and the dramatic situation in the countries of origin and the humanitarian conditions at the crossing points, i can only express my full and heartfelt support for the metsola-kyenge report. the commission's intensive work in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has also enabled the legislative text to enjoy widespread and broad support in the european parliament, which, especially in these circumstances, could not fail to have a cohesive and strong voice. the constant violations of human rights in the countries of the middle east and north africa and the consequent profound migration crisis require a european approach which is essential and holistic, which, through a broad rethinking of the legal framework established by the dublin regulation, makes the measures governing migration more effective and which encourages a common policy on political asylum. the establishment of a centralised european-level allocation and relocation system, governed by the values of responsibility and fairness, responds precisely to the need for a common european response to current and future crises.
in writing. ‒ whereas there has been an increase in irregular immigration to europe in recent times; whereas the provision of assistance to persons in distress at sea is an obligation under the international law of the sea; that there is often a tendency to assimilate those who are victims of human trafficking and those who are trying to enter europe illegally; i am convinced that the dublin iii regulation should pay greater attention to the conditions in which european countries, because of their geographical location, are receiving migrants, and i agree with the need for more effective action and the need for the european union to strengthen the protection of its borders. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing an unprecedented migration crisis. the causes of this crisis are many. this was why a comprehensive eu approach to immigration was needed. the current asylum system does not take sufficient account of the particular migratory pressure on member states at the external borders of the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and equitable manner. it is also essential to ensure the implementation of return operations, in particular by encouraging the adoption of bilateral readmission agreements between the eu and the north african countries. it is also essential to proceed to the full implementation of the relocation programme and, in my view, it would be appropriate to extend relocation to all nationalities once the relocations of those belonging to the nationalities for which the percentage of positive decisions on international protection in the union was equal to or higher than 75% in the previous quarter have been exhausted. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in which parliament elaborates its proposals to tackle the refugee crisis in the mediterranean through a comprehensive eu approach to immigration. the gravity of the situation can no longer be addressed with the current approach and requires a real change: the european union is a major donor to the refugee crisis, and it is the european union that is the main donor. as we have been saying for months, the second solution is to go beyond the mechanism established by the dublin regulation with a centralised asylum management system at european level that allows for the fair redistribution of refugees across all member countries and a mandatory relocation system for refugees already in europe, so as to relieve the pressure on frontline countries like italy and greece. in the long term, we also believe that legal channels of migration to europe for refugees and skilled economic migrants should be created: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of migration in the mediterranean. the aim of the report is to establish a common vision for all groups on the most relevant aspects of migration policies. the topics covered are solidarity, integration and the revision of the dublin convention to identify and stop human traffickers. other topics covered include work on migration, recognition of the right to asylum and cooperation with non-eu countries. i am convinced that this report lays the foundations for improving the migration situation in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report on the situation in the mediterranean is of great importance. the text proposes a comprehensive overview of all the measures currently taken by the european union to deal with the refugee emergency and, for each of them, lists a number of possible corrections to make them even more effective. the principles underlying the history of the european union are stated on several occasions: it is about solidarity, responsibility and respect for human rights. this is the european identity we must defend, by committing ourselves to giving practical help to those who face a difficult and uncertain journey every day in order to find hope for a better life. among the various proposals, i particularly appreciated the suggestion to revise the dublin regulation so that the management of refugees is more equitably distributed between the different member states, and the call to implement legal access channels to europe to effectively combat trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the annual monitoring of the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality within the european union. member states are given the opportunity to submit 'reasoned opinions' on the acts proposed by the european commission to challenge the breach of the principle of subsidiarity, and if these opinions come from a sufficient number of member states the commission has to reconsider the proposal. the report also proposes a number of measures to ensure greater participation and closer involvement of national parliaments. the five star movement is in favour of greater involvement of the national states in european decisions. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the karim report on subsidiarity and proportionality. the proposed text contains many points which are not acceptable and which run counter to the objective, which i consider to be fundamental, of strengthening the european union by providing it with the necessary instruments to improve the lives of its citizens. the s&d group has tabled a number of amendments in an attempt to bring the text into a framework which would allow the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality which underpin the treaties to be interpreted in an organic way, but this has not been possible. the report is therefore too unbalanced in favour of the national states, with elements which risk undermining other proposals tabled in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report strongly criticises the european commission for its abuse of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality vis-à-vis national parliaments. the member states' parliaments should have a greater say, not only at the beginning of the legislative procedure but throughout the codecision process. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this document because instead of drawing the conclusions that would be normal to draw from the very low participation of national parliaments in the so-called early warning systems (just 292 opinions in 2012 and 313 in 2013, of which only 25% gave reasons), i.e. those mechanisms, such as the 'yellow card' and the 'orange card', which are intended to safeguard the two principles, it proposes to extend their powers, thus completely distorting the union's decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are enshrined in article 5 of the treaty on european union (teu) and protocol no 2 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). their value is not merely formal: the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality govern the exercise of the competences of the european union. in areas where the eu does not have exclusive competence, the principle of subsidiarity is intended to protect the decision-making and action capacity of the member states and local communities, and at the same time it serves to legitimize union intervention if the objectives of an action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states but can, 'by reason of the scale or effects of the action in question', be better achieved at union level. the incorporation of this principle into the european treaties was therefore intended to bring the exercise of powers as close as possible to the citizen: the commission's approach to these matters is therefore regrettable, and it is often bureaucratic and redundant. it is in the european parliament's interest to bring the institutions closer to the citizens by concentrating eu action on macro-issues of common interest, limiting its own regulatory over-enlargement and practising the principles of federal institutions: no man is enough by himself, not even european officials.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report in question is absolutely positive. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as laid down in article 5 of the treaty on european union are the basis of the legislative activity of the brussels institutions and their observance, especially for a political group like ours, is fundamental. for this reason, since the text of the legal affairs committee is very strict towards the european commission, we cannot but support it with a positive vote. the s&d group is proposing a whole series of amendments which seek to reduce the prerogatives of the member states (which we will vote against). the report stresses the important role of national parliaments and suggests that in future the possibility for national legislators to opt out of the eu's respect for the principle of subsidiarity could be further simplified, perhaps with more time available. it is also stressed that the treaties provide for the exception to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality only at the beginning of the legislative procedure, whereas it would be desirable for national parliaments to be able to express their views also at later stages of the sometimes lengthy codecision procedure.
in writing. ‒ article 5 of the treaty on european union states that the exercise of eu competences should be guided by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, so it is important to encourage greater participation and involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in order to achieve the same political results together, avoiding fragmentation. the involvement of citizens, who unfortunately still do not feel that the european union is close to their needs, is also essential. i therefore vote in favour of mr karim's report, and i hope that political dialogue will be improved, not just in the case of yellow or orange cards, but as a general rule.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality because it contains some unacceptable proposals. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are guiding principles for the european union's action and the validity, effectiveness and efficiency of the policies implemented depend on their proper application. this should not, however, allow national parliaments to overstep their powers and conflict with the prerogatives of the eu's legislative bodies. the proposal for a 'green card' procedure, which would allow national parliaments, after securing the support of the european parliament, to make constructive proposals to be submitted to the commission, should therefore be rejected. the proposal to introduce an interim evaluation after the start of the adoption procedure and at the end of the legislative process, with the possibility of warning member states which do not respect the principle of subsidiarity, should also be rejected. it represents an unnecessary burden on the procedure and a harmful control by the eu of the member states in the exercise of their prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to increase the scrutiny by member states of the activities of the european union and especially the commission, a critical position repeatedly shared by the five star movement. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ it was obvious to vote in favour of this report on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. these are fundamental guiding principles and the whole organization of the european union is based on them. in my view, these are essential principles for increasing citizens' confidence in the institutions, while respecting the individual member states. but it is essential for these principles to work well that the individual national parliaments take a greater part in the european debate and we need to listen more closely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on subsidiarity and proportionality. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the founding pillars of the european union, underpinning an effective and transparent legislative procedure. the report has the advantage of involving the national parliaments of the member states more closely, including them more closely in the preparatory work and improving the dialogue between them and the european commission. i also believe that it is essential to implement the subsidiarity checks to be undertaken at the beginning and end of the legislative procedure: this is a strong and real sign of a change towards a fairer european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which stresses the poor and insufficient responses given by the commission to national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the ep resolution on the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality because i did not agree with the report's structure and the approach given by the rapporteur. i believe that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are absolute values, since they govern the union's action by ensuring effectiveness and efficiency and by allowing a fair balance between institutional levels: i am therefore convinced that i support the balance achieved in the negotiations on the treaties. i do not, however, agree with an overly broad interpretation of these principles, which would end up weakening the union and its legislative action at a time of crisis and increasingly complex challenges, to which we therefore want a strong and just europe that makes life better for citizens. i did not agree, among other things, with the introduction of a green card and a red card for national parliaments and with the extension of the control of national parliaments both during and at the end of the legislative process, which are in the opposite direction. they risk paralysing the union's action and slowing down the european decision-making process, going in the opposite direction to the recent interinstitutional agreement on better regulation. for all these reasons, i have therefore decided to reject the report as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. i have decided to support mr karim's report on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are relevant to the whole interinstitutional context. these principles form an integral part of the policy framework and aim to determine whether eu action is capable of developing better policy objectives than national or even regional policies. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the introduction of the 'green card' which would allow national parliaments to propose the introduction, amendment or repeal of eu legislation and the 'red card' which envisages the extension of the period for consultation of national parliaments under the subsidiarity control and the introduction of a stronger procedure. in the light of the above, i believe that the matter deserves further intervention and measures to increase its potential, and i also believe that the commission must make every effort to ensure that its dialogue with each of the national parliaments is suitable for strengthening its dialogue with them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. the aim of the report is to highlight the increased participation and closer involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years, which has led to an increased awareness of the principles on which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the interinstitutional context.
in writing. ‒ here in the european parliament we must not forget the path we have travelled and the principles on which the european union was founded, without forgetting respect for the authority of national institutions. whatever we do, we must not impose excessive burdens on business. overall, we need to reduce the perception of a democratic deficit and improve trust and participation among our citizens, and for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we reject the 2012-13 annual report on subsidiarity and proportionality. subsidiarity is a key principle of the european union, which aims to define, in a relevant way, the areas of competence shared between the union and the member states. introduced in 1992 by the maastricht treaty, it also helps to establish the union's exclusive competences. the principle of proportionality is a necessary corollary to the definition of the limits of community action and the prerogatives of the member states. it is therefore essential that these principles be respected. the report does not go in the direction we hoped for, unfortunately, and it introduces several controversial elements which are not in line with our view of the relationship between the member states and the european union. the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament believes in a strong and united europe, capable of acting in the interests of its citizens to improve the quality of life and our community institutions. this report does not follow the directions given by our group. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality welcome the increased participation and closer involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years, which has led to an increased awareness of the principles on which the european union is founded. i have chosen to vote in favour of the measure and i believe that there is still work to be done in this area and that the commission should engage in an annual debate with each national parliament in order to strengthen their dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, enshrined in article 5 of the tfeu, are fundamental principles of the european union. the necessary increased involvement of the member states in the formulation of european policies must always be in line with these principles, and in some cases the definition of these principles and the division of competences between the member states and the eu is a source of confusion. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that greater dialogue between national parliaments and the european institutions can help to ensure that these principles are respected and reduce the use of the so-called 'yellow card'.
in writing. ‒ parliament's vote on this report on eu decision-making processes calls on the commission to take into account the reasoned opinions of national parliaments and to encourage dialogue between national parliaments and the commission from the very beginning of the legislative process. this is to reaffirm the central role of the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaties. its respect and commitment to its effective implementation are essential to reducing the democratic deficit which the union currently suffers from and on which the confidence of its citizens in the institutions depends.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament reaffirms that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are fundamental guiding principles for the european union. the two european commission reports of 2012 and 2013 examine how the two principles in question have been implemented by the various european institutions. in particular, national parliaments, which have a stronger territorial impact, should be more closely involved in the eu legislative process and subsidiarity checks. on this last point, i would argue that in addition to the impact assessments that are usually drawn up at the beginning of the legislative procedure, further assessments should be carried out both at the intermediate stage, at the end of the legislative process and before the adoption of a final text, in order to ensure that subsidiarity and proportionality are respected. i therefore supported the report with my vote in favour, convinced that closer scrutiny by the european and national institutions will make it possible to take legislative action more efficiently, avoiding unnecessary regulatory burdens and bringing tangible benefits to citizens.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality are cornerstones of the european construction, since they frame the action of the european union in its relations with the member states. under the former, in areas not falling within the eu's exclusive competence, the eu acts only if and to the extent that the objectives of the action in question cannot be achieved by the member states, at central, regional or local level, and, in accordance with the latter, such action cannot go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives laid down in the treaties. the application of these two principles to eu actions and policies has over time enabled the creation of the internal market with freedoms of movement and progressive economic and political integration, which progressive forces continue to pursue. unfortunately, the annual reports on the application of the two principles voted on today support a eurosceptic and misleading view, as they propose to introduce a series of procedures to limit eu legislative action in an instrumental way and beyond the conditions provided for by the provisions of the treaties on the basis of the principles mentioned. for these reasons i have voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on subsidiarity and proportionality. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in areas not falling within the union's exclusive competence, action should be taken only if the objectives of the proposed action cannot be achieved by the member states. the principle of proportionality, which applies to all union action, requires that any union action does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaties. i firmly believe in a europe that can act and improve the lives of its citizens. this report is not compatible with that objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report. i think we have avoided a danger, because we have avoided the introduction of the concept of a nutritional profile, which is completely unrelated to that concerning good and bad nutrition, but above all in clear contrast to what european regulations already provide, namely information on food and prepared foods. on the other hand, by voting in favour and eliminating this possibility which was floating in the report, we have helped to guarantee the european industry, the food industry, the possibility of being able to guarantee that the food we produce in europe and i say also in italy, has the right value on the market without being affected by possible regulations which would certainly have harmed production and exports.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution concerns the current situation and prospects for the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) introduced in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. the platform aims to monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of regulation. the report raises criticisms, particularly with regard to the risk of deregulation posed by the refit programme. more attention could also have been devoted to transparency. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme, proposed by the commission, aims to improve the legislative production process, reducing administrative and regulatory burdens and simplifying union law. improving the legislative proposal means, in a broader sense, meeting the expectations of citizens, who demand an increasingly clear and accessible regulatory framework and quick and effective responses to social, economic and environmental problems. i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the regulatory adequacy and effectiveness monitoring programme because i believe that it contains appropriate solutions to the challenges facing the legislative process at european level. the intervention on legislation is an intervention which combats excessive bureaucracy while at the same time avoiding the risks of deregulation of entire sectors and the questioning of fundamental values such as social protection, environmental protection and the right to health. the commission's approach to transparency and involvement of citizens and stakeholders in the legislative process is positive.
in writing. ‒ although the text is largely shared, there are still some unclear passages which could generate criticism. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is in times of crisis such as the one the eu is currently facing that efforts must be redoubled to implement transparency policies that bring citizens closer to the union's project. i therefore welcome the approval of the refit programme voted on today in strasbourg. this programme will strengthen the link between parliament and the commission by encouraging bureaucratic simplification, more effective decision-making and increased parliamentary scrutiny of acts adopted by the commission. the simplification of certain procedures will reduce the administrative burden, especially for smes. in the case of more efficient legislation, i voted in favour of paragraph 47 on nutrition labelling in foodstuffs. these profiles, besides being without scientific basis, would generate proven problems of distortion of competition by favouring a simplistic classification between 'good' and 'bad' foods, and would support forms of restriction such as traffic light labelling. i would like to emphasize that the nutritional composition is not in itself sufficient to ensure a correct diet for consumers: a balanced diet is based on a balanced consumption of the various foods. that is why we have asked the commission to abolish the concept of nutritional profiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the regulatory fitness and performance programme represents an important step towards making european legislation more efficient and more transparent.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme, launched by the commission in 2014 to simplify and clarify a european legal framework that is often overburdened and sometimes distorted, is a great initiative that can reduce some of the excesses suffered by the european bureaucracy, make the decision-making process more inclusive and transparent and thus improve the quality of european legislation, all to the benefit of citizens, consumers and businesses. i also strongly support the call on the commission to review the scientific basis and usefulness of the concept of 'nutritional profile' in regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods, as it is misleading european consumers. rather than focusing on the nutritional profile of a product, it is necessary to promote its conscious consumption in a varied and balanced diet, and to combat traffic light labelling which has contributed to the creation of a distinction between 'good' and 'bad' foods in the uk without any scientific basis, which has negatively affected the competitiveness of excellent pdo, pgi and stg products.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme, launched by the juncker commission as part of its better regulation plan, is based on shared principles: to review the body of european law in order to make it easier and less burdensome to apply. it is based on the following criteria: transparency and stakeholder consultation; ex ante and ex post impact assessments and european added value assessment; impact on smes ('thinking small first'); the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority. the report gives positive indications as to the involvement of parliament, as co-legislator, in the implementation of this programme. we are also not convinced by the eurocentric tendencies underlying several paragraphs, such as considering the flexibility granted to member states in transposing directives as 'over-regulation' which undermines the single market. for this reason, an abstention is preferred.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit): i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, because i believe that this programme can be a very useful tool for the work of the european legislator, because it allows us to assess the progress made in all the strategic areas and for each initiative, provided, however, that this tool is used to the best possible extent. for example, it should be supplemented by an annual statement on the net costs and benefits of european legislation in order to assess more fully the progress made in eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic burdens; it is also important to separate the issues of adequacy and effectiveness of regulation from the policy objective pursued. the commission should focus more on the quality of existing legislation than on the quantity of legislative acts, and in this respect costs should not be the decisive factor because the only appropriate benchmark should be the quality of legislation. i am in favour of the introduction of 'temporary clauses' in legislative initiatives with a limited duration and of 'revision clauses' in legislative measures in order to assess regularly the continued relevance of legislative measures at european level.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposal concerns the prospects for the regulatory adequacy and effectiveness monitoring programme introduced by the commission under the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. the report as a whole is acceptable. the text, however, also contains a number of criticisms, particularly in relation to the risk of deregulation which the programme would entail. the paragraph on transparency could also be considerably improved. for these reasons i have decided to abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i realise that, working in this environment, we are now prisoners of an increasingly stringent bureaucracy and that is why reducing it by eliminating the regulatory burdens, of course in full respect of the treaties, represents, in my view, an improvement of the entire institutional machinery. i therefore agree with the need for this exercise and with the general approach of the report. i also thought it necessary to express my support for paragraph 47 on the elimination of the concept of nutritional profiles from european legislation. this concept has no scientific basis and tends to generalize by labelling foods as "good" or "bad" when it would be necessary to speak of "good diets" and "bad diets" in favour of a varied diet. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to remove nutritional profiles from european regulation. the approach based on the adoption of nutritional profiles has always raised a great deal of concern, firstly because they have no real scientific basis, but above all because, although consumers are informed about the composition of individual foods, this will not affect their lifestyle, as foods are often associated according to the eating habits and traditions of the various countries. that said, nutritional profiles are outdated, as citizens already find on the label all the information to make responsible purchasing choices. in addition, the introduction of nutritional profiles could have negative repercussions on the competitiveness of various sectors of the european agri-food chain and in particular on typical products with a quality label (pdo, pgi, gts).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on strengthening the refit programme, which aims to simplify and improve eu legislation, because i believe, in line with the better regulation agenda, that optimising the decision-making process and the evaluation of european legislation not only reduces administrative inefficiencies and regulatory burdens, but also ensures the democratic and inclusive participation of citizens, alongside the institutions, in decision-making and evaluation processes. i am convinced that an improvement of the refit programme can significantly contribute to raising the quality of legislation, governance, impact assessment of all the elements underlying current and future legislative proposals and, finally, consultation of the european institutions with civil society and stakeholders, increasing their level of trust in the eu. finally, i support greater involvement of local and regional authorities in eu policy-making on the one hand and of national parliaments in the ex-post evaluation of new legislation on the other.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposal, while welcoming the introduction of some interesting concepts, such as the 'sunset clauses', is critical, particularly with regard to the risk of deregulation posed by the refit programme. we also believe that the paragraph on transparency could have been considerably improved. for these reasons, and since we cannot express an opinion which fully shares the refit report, we prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs kaufmann's report. the positive outcome of the refit control programme is a victory for the protection of the competitiveness of 'made in italy' production. in particular, paragraph 47 of the report calls into question the practice of traffic light labelling of foodstuffs, establishing certain nutritional profiles which place the main products of the mediterranean diet at a disadvantage. the message from parliament to the commission is clear: the protection of foodstuffs of excellence is not just a matter for italy but for europe as a whole. it is the first step towards ending the damage that traffic light labelling is causing to the most typical products of 'made in italy', with inevitable repercussions on the agri-food chains at regional level, which, on the contrary, must be protected by brussels.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite some positive principles, there are some eurocentric trends that i do not share.
in writing. i would like to thank mrs kaufmann for the careful and fruitful work she has carried out in recent months on the refit dossier, a subject of great importance not only at interinstitutional and legislative level but above all at political level. improving the quality of our legislation, making relations between the institutions more transparent, eliminating procedures which slow down and make the action of the european institutions less effective is not just a useful tool in our daily work in parliament: it is first and foremost a step towards closer relations between the eu and its citizens. we are voting today on a text of great political responsibility, and i congratulate the s&d group on the result achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on the regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme: the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's proposals are implemented. the committee welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. and is expected to lead to european legislation that is of the highest possible quality, that meets the expectations of citizens and stakeholders, and that ensures that strategic public objectives including consumer, environmental and social, and health and safety rules are not compromised. i welcome the results achieved in this area, particularly in the area of health and safety and nutritional indicators. the environment committee, of which i am a member, strongly supported the revision of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 to remove the reference to nutritional profiles and essentially the traffic light labelling, which trivializes information on the nutrient content critical to health through the traditional traffic light colours. this is an important victory for the italian agri-food industry, which is committed to quality production, and for italian exports.
in writing. i gave a favourable opinion on our report on the commission communication on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit). the european commission is aiming to review legislation to reduce regulatory and administrative burdens. one of the points made by parliament, and for which i have campaigned, calls on the commission to review and possibly eliminate the concept of nutritional profiles. this is a great achievement, which shows the european parliament's great willingness to stand up for our quality products. we have won a battle of method and prevented the "made in italy" from being damaged by the foolish choices of some european countries which, according to their labelling system, see milk or extra virgin olive oil as noble foods, marked in red, while some light drinks, such as coca-cola, have a green label. this vote means that we can combine consumer protection with the competitiveness of our companies.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that what we need is not more laws, but better laws. as the report says, we should allow for more input from citizens and the business community so that we can have better forecasts of the possible effects of the new legislation. i am convinced that we are on the right track and that is why i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ regarding the report by my colleague sylviayvonne kaufmann, i agree that more efficient regulation by the european commission (under the refit programme) should include simplification of legislation and bureaucracy and encourage easier application of eu law at national, regional and local level. to this end, i hope that the commission will review the scientific basis of the regulation. in addition, i am convinced that lower administrative burdens can help smes, which, as we know, represent 99% of european enterprises, and that such measures can help to boost competitiveness and employment. i am also in favour of both impact and outcome assessments, and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ refit is a key tool for simplifying legislation and reducing the administrative burden on businesses, as well as for removing obstacles to growth and job creation. this simplification and deregulation must not, however, have a negative impact on the health and safety of citizens, consumers, workers or the environment. the commission must focus on the quality of legislation and on better enforcement of existing legislation, and costs should not be the only factor to be considered. i share the call for greater attention to be paid to the mandatory and regular dialogue with representative associations and civil society. greater transparency can ensure a more effective functioning of the union and increase the confidence of civil society. impact assessments are an important tool to support eu decision-making. the assessment of competitiveness is central, but the economic, social and environmental consequences, and the impact on citizens' fundamental rights and gender equality, must also be considered. i also welcome the attention paid to smes. finally, i support the proposal to eliminate the concept of nutritional profiles. there are no "good" or "bad" foods, only "good" or "bad" diets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report on european regulation, supporting in particular paragraph 47. parliament reiterated to the european commission the principle of 'thinking of smes first' and pointed to them as the reference point for eu policies (since they account for 95% of european industry and production). the vote in favour of paragraph 47 also has a first practical effect for the whole agri-food chain: parliament called on the commission to review the part of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 which gives the go-ahead to highly punitive labelling for a large number of quality products (pdo, pgi, gts). the regulation would have catalogued foods according to their fat, sugar and salt content, thus providing partial and incorrect information, and classifying a large number of products of the mediterranean diet as harmful to health by introducing new 'nutritional profiles' (the famous 'traffic light labelling' already in use in the united kingdom), with the risk of justifying additional taxation. parliament thus reaffirmed that the correctness of food information to consumers is not improved by implementing existing rules, such as regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, according to which information must be mandatory and complete.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today on regulatory adequacy and effectiveness aims to underline the importance of legislation that is of quality, meets citizens' expectations and avoids excessive red tape. in this connection, it was called for the concept of nutritional profile to be eliminated, as it was considered redundant and unnecessary, in order to avoid unjustified discrimination against food of mediterranean origin and to avoid negative consequences for the competitiveness of the european agri-food sector. nutrition profiles, in fact, require that foods be classified according to their nutritional composition, and thus according to their salt, sugar and fat content, without taking into account how these foods are actually associated with each other. this type of classification, in addition to having no scientific basis, greatly penalizes the excellence and italian products, paradoxically labeled as "bad food", causing great damage to agri-food enterprises. i therefore voted in favour of the report, hoping that the elimination of the distorted concept of nutritional profile will ensure the safety of our products and the protection of our production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report setting out parliament's position on the refit programme, launched by the european commission with the aim of reducing the bureaucratic burden of regulating certain sectors, removing excessive regulatory obstacles and simplifying and improving the quality of legislation. as the commission monitors the whole of eu legislation through the refit programme to identify any obstacles and inconsistencies in european action, we expressed our concern that this exercise was intended to risk downplaying many of the safeguarding rules contained in sectoral legislation. in this respect, the final text of the report is positive, as it maintains the priority to be given to social dialogue and stakeholder dialogue, the maintenance of environmental and employment standards and consumer protection in the implementation of the programme. i therefore hope that the commission will take account of the european parliament's suggestions in carrying out the refit programme in a balanced way and in the interests of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the whole concept of nutritional profiles needs to be reviewed and possibly eliminated. the nutritional profiles are not useful to the consumer and their scientific basis is questionable. nutritional profiles could justify 'traffic light' labelling, which distorts the market and misleads consumers into classifying foods as good or bad. there is no such thing as good or bad food, but there is such a thing as good or bad diet. protecting health means promoting a proper lifestyle by combating the abuse, not the use, of food. the traffic light labelling may be detrimental to the excellent italian products which form the basis of the mediterranean diet, recognised as one of the most complete and balanced. protecting health means promoting a healthy lifestyle and a varied and balanced diet, educating on the right use and avoiding abuse, not misleading the consumer into classifying individual foods as good or bad on the basis of traffic light labelling.
in writing. refit is the programme whose stated aim is to reduce the costs of regulation and red tape. i have defended paragraph 47 of the report in order to prevent the introduction of traffic light labels on products with a high calorific value. the traffic light labelling system is extremely misleading because it focuses only on the amounts of fat, sugar and salt contained in the product. under this system, a flagship of our made in like olive oil would be labeled as harmful, with a big red badge. in contrast, lab-made chemical drinks with low levels of sugar and fat would have a nice green badge. it is not necessary to have scientific knowledge, but only common sense to understand the absurdity of these labels. this system would be a disaster for consumers and for serious businesses. i therefore fought to eliminate any future attempt to create an english-style traffic light label by voting in favour of the paragraph. however, in other areas the report was not sufficiently clear on the impact that a rapid deregulation can have on consumer rights, so i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the van bossuyt report on new single market legislation makes a number of suggestions to make the single market more functional in terms of growth and job creation. i voted against this report because i believe that the measures proposed are in clear contradiction with the stated objectives. fundamental principles of the union, such as subsidiarity, have been interpreted to limit the union's regulatory action as much as possible, thereby indirectly undermining the eu's role in setting high social standards for workers and consumers. i believe that it is essential to work towards a single market which protects the citizens of the union in a common framework, not a national one, and i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report 'towards better regulation in the single market' was intended to formulate a series of recommendations to promote more effective european legislation on this subject. the single market is central to the future of the eu project, with growth, competitiveness, employment and social cohesion as the pillars of the eu of tomorrow. that is why i could not support the report in question. the text, although it contains positive elements, is too unambitious as a whole. i believe that the principle of subsidiarity cannot be seen as a justification for the renunciation of decisions to be taken at the common level and that the answer to today's problems must be one of increasing ambition and integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this document because i believe that it has several criticisms and that, in the end, it does not contribute positively to finding solutions for a more integrated single market. in particular, the view put forward in the text is that any form of market regulation is merely a bureaucratic burden rather than a necessary tool for the better functioning of the market.
in writing. ‒ the proper functioning of the single market is one of the vital aspects of the future of the european union and remains an important aspect of the life of the union: each eu institution has a co-responsibility for improving its own legislation. improving regulation does not mean eliminating it, nor does it mean making it less ambitious in terms of environmental protection, consumer protection, safety, quality or social legislation. it means the elimination of redundant rules, red tape and negative effects, as well as the achievement of strategic objectives and the creation of a harmonious regulatory environment in support of employment and business in europe. we must understand that the realisation of a rationally regulated single market does not impose excessive burdens or impede production, innovation and trade: it is a structure that will stimulate growth in europe. it is in this context that shared responsibility can lead to common benefits: a strong and dynamic single market that can contribute to sustainable and long-term growth in europe and thus to the prosperity of its citizens. the european parliament has a moral obligation not to delegate this responsibility to other institutional bodies.
in writing. ‒ the problem with reports like this, which were approved by the committee on the internal market, is that, in addition to the absolutely agreeable points, they contain whole paragraphs which we cannot politically approve. it should be remembered that the internal market and consumer protection are not the exclusive competence of the european institutions, but are shared with the national parliaments. for this reason, respect for the principle of subsidiarity is always a central issue. in our view, the van bossuyt report could have done more to protect the prerogatives of the member states. not only is this not the case, but in some instances the member states are accused of not applying the single market rules correctly or too late. in addition, the report contains statements which, in our opinion, speak excessively of the internal market as a potential driving force for the economy. the facts show that this is not entirely true, but on the contrary, internal market rules create problems for our production system. this example alone is enough to illustrate the problems of transposing the services directive (the so-called bolkestein directive) into italian law. of course, it would be excessive to vote against this report. the text also contains passages that can be shared. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report today because it describes a single european market which ignores social and environmental aspects altogether. in addition to the free movement of goods, people, services and capital, we need above all a social market economy aimed at full employment and social progress, with a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment. this report forgets that without taking account of the social aspect of the union it is not possible to achieve a real improvement in the living and working conditions of european citizens. the welfare of the european citizen in the broad sense must not be limited in any way by the pursuit of the objective of the single market, but must find in it its full realization. the single market must become the union's end and means of achieving the highest degree of integration, which translates into an improvement in the living conditions of the citizen. i think it is essential to stress the need for a stronger employment and social dimension in eu governance and to outline new strategies to involve more employers' and workers' representatives in defining the union's priorities.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates a set of general principles for improving single market regulation. the text as it stands following the amendments tabled in committee is acceptable. among these, the part which stresses the importance of supporting sustainable socioeconomic growth in order to protect consumers and workers is particularly positive. the text, however, is not consistent with the results achieved so far by instruments such as adr and odr. i have therefore decided to abstain on the vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it represents a further step towards the creation of a single market in europe. i believe that this process can lead to quality legislation that is fully at the service of the citizens. a single european market can only help to stimulate competitiveness, job creation, growth and development in individual member states and their businesses, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. i am in favour of a more competitive europe with a greater global influence and i believe that this report, by promoting our economy, is aimed in the right direction towards long-term growth for europe and thus towards the prosperity of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ today, the completion of the single market is a top priority. the challenges we face are increasingly pressing and have a major impact on the internal market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, the weakening of the entrepreneurial fabric and competitiveness, and the increase in immigration. the present context therefore requires a more pragmatic and decisive approach. the juncker commission has already taken important action in a short time. we must continue in this direction and in a hurry. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the recovery of economic growth and employment in the member states depends on the proper functioning of the single market, which creates a uniform regulatory framework within the eu for economic integration between states. i welcome the european parliament's resolution, which seeks to remove the obstacles which still prevent the full implementation of european legislation in the member states and better regulation of the single market. in particular, my vote was intended to support the european parliament's call for the consultation process to be open, transparent and inclusive of the various stakeholders, and for consumers and businesses to be consciously involved in the legislative process through the use of assistance services such as solvit, adr and odr, which are still little known. in this respect, i support the proposal to eliminate the overlapping of the various assistance services promoted by the eu and to replace them, if necessary, with a single point of contact for consumers, avoiding the unnecessary and costly red tape which has hitherto hindered quality regulation in the single market.
in writing. ‒ the report on 'towards better regulation in the single market' had as its main objective to provide a set of recommendations to improve and make more efficient the legislation concerning the internal market, so as to ensure a correct and more effective implementation of its rules. the union should provide the ideal regulatory conditions to facilitate the activities of our businesses and citizens and to take full advantage of all the opportunities presented by the ongoing digital transformation: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. although some parts of the report are moving in the right direction, i cannot support a text which interprets the principle of better lawmaking and the principle of subsidiarity as regulatory instruments which limit as much as possible the legislative actions and measures by the european union. indeed, the creation of a more competitive and simpler regulatory environment in the single market will necessarily have to take account of the added value of eu rules that safeguard social and environmental rights and ensure full consumer protection. i think that the text presented today falls far short of the expectations and objectives that were desirable. i voted against it for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ improving single market regulation means creating a competitive regulatory environment that supports jobs and businesses in europe. an effective single market is a growth-boosting structure in europe. i voted in favour of better single market legislation because it takes very important elements into account, such as respect for the principle of subsidiarity, the value of impact assessments and consultation and, above all, the need for effective implementation and monitoring. in order to contribute to the achievements of the single market and to fully exploit the opportunities offered by the digital single market, i believe that a strong and direct commitment by all relevant actors is necessary and i hope that it will be. i am convinced that shared accountability and transparency, together with better single market regulation, can bring greater prosperity to the citizens of the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, despite some positive points, the prerogatives of the member states could have been better defended.
in writing. – i voted ‘yes’ to this report on an improved single market. the single market is one of the pillars of the european union and its regulations influence the whole economy of europe. i agree with the report, which asks for the removal of unnecessary regulations and needless or obsolete bureaucracy. in these times of fragile economic recovery we must do all we can to support economic growth and to provide jobs and opportunities to our citizens; removing" red tape" is a cheap and easy way to make the single market more competitive and business-friendly, as well as more consumer friendly. this will give natural incentives for entrepreneurship, innovation and could also boost production and consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on better regulation of the single market. improving the single market is one of the priorities and responsibilities of the union institutions with a view to improving the regulation of the single market in the interests of smes and consumers. a strong commitment by all member states is essential to contribute to the achievements of the single market and to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market.
in writing. ‒ it is our responsibility as the european parliament to do everything we can to promote the growth of the sector, especially smes. in doing so, we must not lose sight of consumer protection. it is vital that citizens are able to contact their government, because that is the way to strengthen the eu. i support this resolution because it prepares our economy for the future, especially in view of the challenges of e-commerce and online services.
in writing. ‒ improving single market legislation is a shared responsibility of each of the eu institutions. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the criteria and mechanisms for determining the criteria and mechanisms for determining the geographical scope of the union's macro-financial assistance. i voted in favour of the report which proposes to examine how to make the legislation more effective and less complex, optimising the so-called 'policy cycle' in the interests of smes and consumers, taking into account the existing single market instruments such as impact assessment and the consultation, implementation, monitoring and problem solving process.
in writing. ‒ whereas the clear need to improve the single market legislation requires a joint commitment from all the european institutions; that efforts are needed to ensure that legislation in this area is clear, but above all effective and fully functional in the long term; that member states and the european institutions must make a greater effort to achieve a concrete result by identifying the programmatic objectives and working towards their full and effective implementation; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the internal market, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step.
in writing. ‒ a strong commitment from all stakeholders is needed to fully exploit the opportunities offered by the digital single market. improving single market legislation is a shared responsibility at union level and that is why quality legislation must be ensured. it is essential that the implementation of secondary legislation and rules is seen as an integral part of the process of making the benefits of the single market real. i believe that shared responsibility can lead to common benefits and the creation of a strong and dynamic single market that can contribute to the long-term growth and prosperity of europe's citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to develop more effective single market legislation, in order to achieve the objectives of economic growth and employment more quickly and efficiently. the report introduces a number of new instruments aimed at improving regulation, including impact assessments, consultations between institutions and stakeholders, market monitoring and surveillance and the implementation of the subsidiarity principle. i believe that quality legislation, which does not involve excessive burdens or red tape and which is regularly updated and simplified, can make the european union even more competitive economically and contribute to growth and the well-being of its citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report which contains a set of general principles to improve the existing single market legislation. if it can take account of social and environmental objectives and the importance of supporting socioeconomic growth that protects consumers and workers, as expressed in the report, the single market can boost economic growth and job creation in the eu. better regulation of the single market means removing the red tape which hinders the competitiveness of firms and therefore does not stimulate the growth of the european labour market. the idea is therefore to focus on simplification, taking into account all the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. parliament reiterated its desire to strengthen the legislative basis on which the european union is based, including by strengthening the instruments of control over the work of the commission. these arguments have found my favor.
mr zahradil, the european union is not exactly like the soviet union, in fact there are some differences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurobarometer data are a wake-up call for us. almost half of europeans, 40%, admit that they have no real knowledge of the european union, 50% are convinced that europe is really distant and that their voice and interests do not count in the european union. these figures on the perception of the relationship between citizens and the union are then translated into reality, with massive abstentions - the last one we saw that concerns us, in which only 42% of the voters voted. and even more serious is the spread and success of populist anti-european movements which use a simplistic communication that is easily understood by those who do not know europe. i voted in favour of the report because it is essential to go beyond erasmus and to include the union at all levels of education in order to form a new european civic consciousness, to form european citizens who know what a huge opportunity europe really is.
in writing. ‒ the report develops the issue of the institutional structure and activities of the eu in schools in a positive way, highlighting that an eu dimension in education should not only allow for the acquisition of knowledge and the development of a sense of belonging to the union and european citizenship, but also foster critical reflection on the current eu; it also stresses the need to address and close the growing gap between the voice of citizens and the institutions of the european union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the drăghici report entitled 'learning about the eu at school'. this is an important text, closely linked to the sense of distance which too often characterizes the relationship between citizens and the european institutions. according to a 2014 eurobarometer report, 44 per cent of citizens feel they have limited knowledge of the european institutions, and 52 per cent feel they have no say in its institutional dynamics. these are worrying figures which call for coordinated action to strengthen the sense of belonging and the construction of european identity. the report proposes a european dimension to education, which would involve greater attention to the construction of europe, citizenship education and the history and culture of the continent. many member states have already integrated parts of the curriculum devoted to the study of europe, but there is still a long way to go. it is important that the institutions, and in particular the commission, devote resources to all those projects and platforms such as erasmus+, etwinning, the school education gateway and epale that can foster a genuine education for european citizenship. only then can euroscepticism be defeated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the knowledge of the population about the european union is extremely limited and lacking and i therefore believe that it is important that children and young people can come into contact with the european universe from an early age.
in writing. ‒ between economic crisis, democratic deficit and difficulties in bringing european citizens closer to institutional mechanisms that seem increasingly distant and abstract, the european union is today in a very precarious situation, immersed in pluralistic societies whose different components also show a growing discomfort in inter-relating and understanding each other. in this delicate context, we strongly support the resolution on 'learning about the european union at school', which aims to encourage the reintroduction of a greater european dimension in national curricula, which are often too heterogeneous from one country to another, and the promotion of training tools (including, in particular, the erasmus+ programmes, europe for citizens, creative europe or virtual platforms such as etwinning, epale, school education gateway and teacher's corner) capable of improving language skills and promoting greater knowledge of european history, values and decision-making mechanisms. we hope, moreover, that this will further encourage the development of a healthy critical sense on the part of teachers and students, which will facilitate, by promoting renewal, a greater understanding of the european union and will help to develop and consolidate a european citizenship and identity.
in writing. ‒ a report that is totally instrumentalised not in favour of quality education, which of course also teaches our recent history and therefore the european union, but in favour of uncritical support for the eu. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'learning about the eu at school' because i believe it is essential to give school education across the union a uniform 'european dimension'. in order to build a genuine european identity, it is necessary that students - citizens of the union - acquire from school age the knowledge of how the union's institutions work and learn to think critically about european issues. however, it is also essential to avoid disparities within member states in the integration of the eu dimension in school education, and this reasoning concerns not only curricula (often fragmentary and lacking complementarity with other subjects taught), but also teacher training, textbooks (which do not always give the right emphasis to eu themes) and teaching methods (by introducing examples of the relevance of the eu in the daily lives of students). for its part, the eu will have to continue its work to promote language skills, active citizenship, cultural awareness and intercultural understanding through continued financial support and wider access to mobility opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text focusing on learning about the eu in school. i agree that an eu dimension in education should enable students not only to acquire knowledge and develop a sense of belonging and european citizenship, but also to engage in critical reflection on the eu, studying its core values, and in particular the rule of law and human rights, its governance and decision-making processes and how they affect the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union is experiencing perhaps the most difficult and complex period in its history, not only because of the continuing economic and social crisis, but also because of the loss of confidence of citizens in the institutions and in the european project, which had its deepest roots in citizenship and membership of europe. the limited knowledge of the functioning and role of the union among citizens fuels the detachment and makes complex decision-making processes appear undemocratic and opaque. we must start again from school and education. many member states have progressively integrated the eu dimension into school curricula and teacher training and this is the way forward. programmes such as erasmus have helped young people to develop a strong sense of belonging and european citizenship, and it is on this type of action that the union must continue to focus in the future. the commission will also continue to support the development of the european union's digital platforms and networks, such as etwinning, epale, the school education gateway and teachers' corner, which provide access to high-quality, up-to-date material to give young people useful tools to learn about the eu. i believe strongly in the role of education and education in rediscovering values and the role of institutions. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve the dialogue between the european union and our schools, which is a clear step forward towards better european integration. i believe that the union offers endless possibilities and that it is our task to make all citizens aware of their rights and duties by educating them from the outset and preparing them to be citizens of a complex and globalised world. education in this sense can only broaden one's knowledge and values by helping to form a critical and informed mind so that one can exercise one's rights in the best way. i believe that such education can only encourage intercultural dialogue, helping to combat discrimination and strengthen citizenship, and further reducing the existing gap between citizens and europe.
in writing. ‒ i am fully in favour of this report which aims to encourage the development and promotion of a european dimension in education, which is essential to help citizens better understand the european union and to bring them closer to it. only by investing in education can we transmit values and make history known and understood, which are essential prerequisites for mutual understanding, peaceful coexistence, tolerance and solidarity. it is also necessary to promote and encourage multilingual and intercultural skills of children as well as educators by offering opportunities for mobility, peer learning and exchanges of best practice.
in writing. ‒ although students and young people are a key asset for the future of the european union, they still know too little about europe. it has become necessary to support the need to make the teaching of european citizenship an effective operational element of school curriculum and not a topic to be dealt with episodically in one-off initiatives and projects. the report highlights the need to acquire knowledge about the european union from the earliest years of school, enabling young people to learn about european values, develop a sense of belonging, engage in critical assessments of the work of the european union or simply 'learn more' about its institutions. due to a lack of awareness of eu systems, there is a crisis of legitimacy, the voice of european citizens is underrepresented and they have few opportunities to intervene directly in key eu issues. the appropriate inclusion of eu citizenship subjects in school curricula is certainly a basic condition for the exercise of an active and conscious european citizenship; that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's resolution addresses a crucial issue for the young generations of europeans: to understand the fundamental values of the european union and to actively involve citizens in the reality of the institutions and the concrete opportunities they offer. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that all the european institutions, with the current and candidate member states, must respond to the widespread feeling of euroscepticism that has been fuelled in recent years by a limited knowledge of the functioning and added value of the european union among citizens. i also believe that the resolution we have voted identifies effective means of dealing with this situation, including the introduction of ad hoc training programmes in schools, together with the need for educators with intercultural, multilingual and digital skills, in step with the needs of the new generations. i fully support the role of active and participatory citizenship, which recognises cultural diversity between and within member states as a wealth and common values as an opportunity.
in writing. ‒ the european dimension of school education needs to be strengthened to enable students not only to acquire knowledge and develop a sense of belonging and european citizenship, but also to engage them in critical reflection on the eu and its fundamental values, enshrined in article 2 teu, in particular the recognition of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report's criticism of the union's democratic deficits, which is manifested in a growing gap between the voice of the citizens and the eu institutions, is entirely acceptable. in this respect, it is of fundamental importance to re-establish a close link with citizens, through their greater involvement in the democratic decision-making process. we also share the need to strengthen the study of civic education to enable students to think critically and form informed and balanced opinions, by strengthening active and responsible citizenship and encouraging intercultural and interreligious dialogue and the exercise of democratic rights and responsibilities, including the right to vote.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because this report is being used to support the eu without criticism.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes on this report because i think that all young people should have the right to learn how they are governed, and as the eu has come to play a larger and larger part of this governance it is only natural that young people’s political education should reflect this. as the report mentions a 2014 eurobarometer poll showing that 44% of eu citizens felt that they had a limited understanding of how the eu works, i believe that this limited understanding can breed suspicion towards the eu and can drive people to populism.
in writing. investing in the development of civic and social responsibility among young people and contributing to the growth of a europeanist sentiment that is recognised in the values of intercultural dialogue and the fight against discrimination are essential ambitions for the european union, which has always been at the forefront of promoting policies to protect human rights. that is why i am in favour of an ever greater commitment by europe, which, by means of dedicated funding lines and specific programmes, succeeds in encouraging the growth of a sense of european citizenship, especially among the youngest, through a continuous and thorough educational path from primary school to university, responding with an education in inclusion, comparison and social responsibility to the growing euroscepticism.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the ep resolution 'learning about the eu at school', because today the european union is facing a difficult and long economic crisis which is also having serious effects on europe's political stability and on the union's founding values. the concept of a european dimension in education is essential to raise the awareness of students in the union of the importance of developing a european culture of values which takes into account the study of languages and youth mobility and the system of coordination between educational institutions. given the low level of knowledge of the european union among citizens, learning in schools could be a driving force for the cultural and civic dissemination of european values, through the introduction of a specific subject such as citizenship education. despite the tools already available to the european union and the member states to promote intercultural dialogue, greater efforts are needed to ensure financial support for wider access to the opportunities offered by the eu.
in writing. i have given my positive opinion on this innovative proposal concerning the teaching of eu history and values in schools, including teacher training and the promotion of a multilingual and multicultural culture that promotes coexistence, integration and the creation of an active population. in a society where borders are narrowed by the mobility made possible by our policies and initiatives, it is essential that children and young people are educated about this system of integration and fully grasp its principles. only by investing in education and in the founding values of the eu will we be able to create the pillars of economic, political and socio-cultural progress in europe, making an essential contribution to the strengthening of a strong european identity.
in writing. ‒ we must transmit the true european values from the beginning of the school path and we must be against the fact that in our schools we are training the next generation of european citizens and we must make sure that they arrive well prepared to contribute to the growth of our union.
in writing. ‒ according to eurostat, 52% of european citizens feel that their voice does not count in the eu and 44% say they have a limited understanding of how the eu works. voter turnout in the last european elections was, by implication, low: this data should make us think. i am convinced that the legitimacy of any democracy depends on the active participation of its citizens in the public sphere, and i wanted to support this report, which includes the european dimension in educational projects as a fundamental instrument to help promote a sense of european citizenship and to counteract a euroscepticism which risks thinking about tomorrow by proposing an unhistorical, unreal return to a past which cannot be repeated today. by helping young people to think critically about european events and issues, they become part of the civil, political and intercultural dialogue that reflects diversity, but also the eu's unity, the key principle of unity in diversity. knowledge and understanding of the common history and values of the eu and its member states is a key factor for mutual understanding, peaceful coexistence, tolerance and solidarity.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support drăghici's report on teaching and raising awareness of european issues in schools. at a time when europe is facing essential challenges for the growth and development of the european political project, it is important to promote a european culture and sense among young people, particularly in schools and associations. the project, through information and culture, is a useful tool to combat feelings of euroscepticism based on misinformation. the proposal to include the dissemination of a european dimension in school education by establishing a common teaching guideline for all member states, based on various intercultural tools and continuous refresher courses, is therefore an essential opportunity to train a conscious generation of future european citizens. it is therefore essential to use information as a tool to involve and encourage citizens to become actively involved and interested in the project of european integration. only in this way, with the active participation of the citizens, with the circulation of information, with the promotion of a european culture from school age, will it be possible to pursue the great project of european union formation in which we are already playing a leading role.
in writing. ‒ the european union has in recent years been faced with a major economic and financial crisis, the social and political effects of which are calling into question the union's institutions and common values, including the concept of european identity. there is therefore a need to strengthen the dialogue on the eu in our schools and associations in order to restore citizens' confidence in the merit and necessity of the european integration process. that is why i voted to make the report highlighting issues such as the recognition of the essential role of eu learning in school and the importance of knowledge and understanding of the history and values common to europe and the member states.
in writing. ‒ whereas the serious economic and financial crisis faced by european countries has called into question the 'sense of europe' among citizens; whereas, in the absence of measures to bring citizens closer to the european institutions, european identity is being put to the test. whereas promoting the european dimension in schools is a valuable tool for bringing citizens closer to the eu; whereas according to a 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of european citizens said they did not know how the european union works. consider the many efforts made so far to create a 'european citizenship' in the strict sense. given the importance of informing young people about the functioning of the eu and encouraging them to reflect on european issues, this can be an effective way of training and educating today's young people to become key players in tomorrow's europe. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the member states have a central role to play in this process of european revival and because, although many countries have already integrated the european dimension into school curricula and teacher training, there are still many disparities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises one of the main challenges that the european union has not yet solved, namely the concept of identity. the economic crisis and the resulting crisis of representativeness have made this area of reflection on europe more slippery, requiring a rethinking of the instruments for integrating and democratizing ideas. education plays a key role in the attempt to recreate a european public space and to restore citizens' confidence in the relevance and inevitability of this process. in practical terms, promoting european education means providing for the teaching and dissemination of the languages of the member states, strengthening measures to promote the mobility of students and teachers, and encouraging cooperation between educational establishments. the union can also promote the exchange of information on member states' education systems and best practices, and encourage civic engagement and participation of young people in democratic life in europe. the pillars of this european education process must be, on the one hand, the acquisition of knowledge of european geography, history and culture, and the functioning of its institutions; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. ‒ currently, european citizens have limited knowledge of the eu and the functioning of its institutions. this is why i believe that strengthening the knowledge of the new generations is a priority for the eu. so we need targeted action from schools. promoting a european dimension in school curricula can help overcome euroscepticism and prepare citizens to live and work in an increasingly complex and globalised world. i hope that my vote in favour today will also lead to further action by all the member states to promote an education which values our common european identity and which can instill in the youngest the pride of belonging to a great civilization.
in writing. ‒ including a european dimension in school education is a crucial element in creating a sense of common belonging and giving substance to european citizenship and also an important tool to counter the growing euroscepticism. that is why i voted in favour of the report calling for a strategy to promote learning about eu action and policies in schools, by improving current and future networks of exchange at all levels of education and by focusing on curricula, teacher training, mobility and new technologies to achieve the objective of a greater knowledge of eu action by young citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the own-initiative report on strengthening the eu dimension in education. we believe, as the report reiterates, that education is a fundamental human right and a public good to which all citizens must have access and i believe it is crucial that there be a critical reflection on the role of the union in their lives. we recognise that the report is moving in the right direction by pointing out to the commission and the member states concrete measures to give a true european dimension to education systems, with the aim of stopping the democratic degradation in institutions, promoting core values such as social inclusion, solidarity and dialogue and strengthening active citizenship and the exercise of democratic rights and responsibilities, including voting rights. we hope that the commission and the member states will follow the recommendations of the report, by promoting the dissemination of knowledge, the creation of a european dimension in history, the interaction between education systems and the mobility of those involved, in order to guarantee all citizens of the union a quality public education. i cannot help but point out how this will be possible, however, since austerity policies are leading to the destruction of public schools in many member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the teaching of european history and institutions in all schools in the member states. this will be followed by a series of initiatives to promote european values more strongly among the younger sections of the population. among these, i think the proposal to create a common educational platform on european history to be extended to all member states and the proposal to provide ad hoc training courses for all teachers are particularly relevant. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and my colleague, mr damian draghici, for their excellent work. the s&d group is once again demonstrating its leadership in the political efforts to spread european values and combat euroscepticism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that erasmus, because of what it has built up over the years, because of the people it is aimed at, because of what it represents, is indeed one of the effective ways out of the economic crisis, but even more so because it is a consciousness that invests in europe. strengthening erasmus means supporting our students, our professionals, but also supporting culture in a europe which today seems to be entirely economic in its vocation. there are key areas, however, which still need improvement and on which work can be done: the economic capacity of students to benefit from mobility, for example, because many do not have the resources that erasmus does not finance; the recognition of educational credits; the inclusion of trainees in the programmes; access to the world of work after the training experience. these are some of the knots that must be untied as soon as possible in order to spread as widely as possible the europe that we like and that european citizens especially like.
in writing. ‒ the report as a whole has positive aspects, but these are countered by the timidity with which it addresses the failure of the eu's tools to date to tackle the very high levels of youth unemployment, the widening gaps in socioeconomic protection and labour rights for young people, and early school leaving. all socioeconomic barriers to equality, including those relating to education and vocational training, must be addressed. moreover, these results cannot be expected to be achieved by persevering with the logic that has hitherto guided economic governance in the eu or by not clearly indicating that instruments such as the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative have failed to achieve the objectives for which they were designed. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of the erasmus+ programme, which replaced the previous mobility programmes, has represented an important development and simplification, allowing more and more european citizens, especially young people, to benefit from important learning experiences in another eu country. however, there is still a structural deficit in the relationship between training and work, which is reflected in a reduced mobility for vocational training studies. the maragall report, which i supported with my vote today, effectively highlights the relationship between employability and mobility, providing guidance on how to implement policies which encourage the exploitation of mobility opportunities by those involved in vocational education and training. the main way is to remove the obstacles affecting certain groups of citizens which prevent them from appreciating all the direct and indirect benefits of training experiences in another member state. the commission and the member states must strengthen the role of intermediary, territorial and sectoral institutions involved in the management, preparation and control of mobility, while encouraging cofinancing schemes for training centres which are coherent, complementary and well coordinated.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus generation is probably the most tangible result of the sense of belonging to the european family. for 29 years, europe has been enabling students to broaden their horizons and increase their skills by spending a period of their university studies abroad. as in the case of education, vocational training-oriented mobility is now crucial for the integration of young people into the labour market, making the erasmus+ programme a valuable tool that needs to be strengthened. the employment objective of the 2020 strategy also addresses these aspects, posing the challenge of reducing the number of neets (non-educational and non-trained) and reducing the 'skill mismatch', the mismatch between skills possessed and those required by the market. in this sense, the erasmus+ programme offers enormous opportunities: the aim of the project is to develop a european network of trainers and trainers in the field of vocational training. however, there are many challenges, particularly in terms of recognition of acquired skills, the lack of compatibility of training in home countries with programmes abroad and language barriers. we need to work to make erasmus+ more flexible. i therefore strongly supported the text presented by mr maragall.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is important, in order to try to solve the employment crisis that has affected the younger generations in the european union, to develop to the maximum the potential of those instruments, such as erasmus+, which promote mobility in vocational education and training.
in writing. ‒ in a context of increasing difficulties for students and young people to integrate adequately into the european labour market, high school drop-out rates and significant differences in the economic and productive systems of the different member states, it is necessary to encourage the development of european programmes capable of promoting the relaunch of the international mobility of young workers, students and teachers and the resources dedicated to them, as essential factors that can facilitate access to stable and quality employment and can facilitate a better adaptation of the workforce to current socioeconomic developments. in particular, particular attention should be paid to developing mechanisms for the recognition of skills acquired through work and exchange programmes, to encouraging the creation of a comprehensive framework capable of adequately presenting existing mobility opportunities to potential beneficiaries, and to harmonising and coordinating existing programmes (such as erasmus+ and the esf), with a view to those most disadvantaged social groups often excluded from such initiatives, which are extremely important, not least for strengthening the sense of belonging to the european project.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is distinguished by a serious and pragmatic approach to the vast world of training and the challenges/critical issues of this historical period. we support the rapporteur's line, which, as we have been advocating for some time in the school sector, points to the need for greater integration between the world of school and the world of work. the emphasis on the importance of vocational education (especially in a world like ours) makes us appreciate the report even more. that is why we recommend a vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to ensure that the european resources allocated to erasmus+ and to vocational education and training (vet) programmes are increased and proportionate to the number and needs of potential beneficiaries of the mobility offered by these programmes. i call on the member states to promote bilateral agreements that complement the actions promoted by erasmus+ and the european fp5 programmes, in order to strengthen the mobility of young europeans. it is also necessary to facilitate the implementation of mobility under the erasmus+ programme by taking actions to increase the success rate of applications, by simplifying the use of electronic tools for mobility management, by organising awareness-raising campaigns on the value of mobility programmes in all educational establishments in the union and by providing more targeted information and training to beneficiaries and intermediaries of programmes and actions, including school and university staff. as regards vocational education and training (vet) programmes, i believe that the commission and the member states should increase their visibility and access in order to remove barriers, particularly in the sectors most affected by youth unemployment and for low-skilled workers.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, parliament calls for better use of the erasmus+ programme to increase the mobility of young trainees and students during vocational training. however, while calling on the commission and the member states to ensure that adequate resources are allocated to the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative for the entire 2014-2020 programming period, i found that the report only emphasises their importance and does not clearly point to their failure to meet the proposed targets and to the inadequacy of these measures and those taken overall to adequately address the very high youth unemployment and the widening gaps in socio-economic protection and labour rights for young people. that is why i have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ mobility, promoted by the erasmus+ programme, has given young europeans the opportunity to train in another eu country and has undoubtedly actively contributed to their personal, cultural and professional growth. the encounter with different cultures, languages, working and educational methods has strengthened the sense of belonging and european citizenship. the potential of mobility programmes, in particular erasmus+, is not only for training and education but also for the world of work, as they broaden the employment prospects for young people. the specific occupational profiles required today require careful selection of applicants to match supply and demand in order to make mobility a real tool for job placement. the experience gained from the programme should encourage the commission and the member states to identify complementary and shared measures between the european social fund and the erasmus+ programme in order to enhance their impact and ensure economic sustainability. this is the way we have to think if we want mobility programmes to be sufficiently comprehensive to ensure that the widest possible range of beneficiaries benefit from the opportunities provided. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights one of the many advantages that europe offers, so it was my duty to speak in favour of it. i am in favour of the erasmus+ programme, as of all international mobility programmes, because it allows anyone, students, graduates and not, to live, express themselves and relate in an increasingly wider international context. it is a unique opportunity for cultural growth, which promotes knowledge of foreign languages and the ability to communicate, to act, to decide and to adapt to new situations, all of which are fundamental today and which represent specific needs in an increasingly dynamic, international and competitive labour market. i therefore felt it was natural to support such international exchanges because they lead, in my view, to advanced vocational training which can only encourage, support and enrich our countries by providing greater opportunities for professional development and by strengthening cooperation between the various member states. such international projects, involving such close cooperation between often very different countries, are often complex to implement, so i am pleased that this report represents an important step forward in promoting international mobility.
in writing. ‒ mobility within the european area in the field of higher education needs to be strengthened in all member states. in fact, even as a result of the economic crisis since 2008, there has been a structural deficit in programmes relating to mobility and more particularly in the relationship between training and employment: in some regions, unemployment rates are close to zero, while in others, the level of inactivity is above 40% among the youngest, who in many cases have not had the opportunity to complete secondary education or vocational training. rather, an ambitious and concrete offer of mobility would be an integral part of any overall strategy for economic recovery and reducing youth unemployment levels. a framework should be created which presents the possibilities available to students in a simple and clear way. to adopt complementary and shared measures between the european social fund and the erasmus+ programme; define programmes to remove obstacles and create the most favourable environment for the success of mobility initiatives; support the transition between mobility and work, consolidating the fight for the recognition of studies and skills.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the eu and all member states to address the limitations that prevent equal access for all to vet education and training opportunities. erasmus is without doubt one of the most successful programmes in europe, with more than three million people having chosen to study or teach abroad since its inception in 1987. the report calls for improvements to existing programmes and initiatives in terms of accessibility, openness and inclusion. it is obvious that in erasmus programmes it is necessary to ensure that traineeships remain training opportunities and do not replace professional positions, as is still too often the case. there are criticisms in the report, the measures taken to deal with the enormous youth unemployment and the widening gap in socioeconomic protection and labour rights for young people are not described. i have noted many positive aspects of the report, but also many shortcomings, and i therefore vote for abstention.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mobility programmes are without doubt one of the eu's greatest successes. every year, through mobility programmes such as erasmus+, more and more european citizens choose to study, gain work experience or work for a few months in an eu country or partner country other than their own. the erasmus+ programme has proven to be a tool that strengthens intercultural dialogue and tolerance, while at the same time enabling participants to acquire new skills, both personally and professionally. although erasmus+ can be considered a success, some obstacles to participation remain. many europeans continue to associate the programme mainly with post-secondary education. in fact, the programme also provides opportunities for citizens who want to gain professional experience or are already engaged in a professional activity. in addition, the numerous administrative procedures may hinder participation. finally, while equal access to education is a right promoted by the eu, significant socioeconomic barriers still exist which unfortunately limit the number of participants. i therefore voted in favour of parliament's resolution which promotes mobility in education and vocational training to enable more european citizens to participate in such rewarding experiences.
in writing. ‒ the resolution we adopted today focuses on the importance of a common european area of education focused on mobility, which is of great value for the development of european identity and for the strengthening of a sense of community citizenship. the report reminds us that education, as a fundamental human right, must be easily accessible to all and that in this regard we must make a concrete commitment to remove all socioeconomic barriers which prevent equal access to opportunities for european mobility. as the maragall report points out, i think that the erasmus+ programme is a great opportunity for students and trainees to experience life abroad, as it allows them to develop a common european citizenship and conscience. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that it is essential to invest in education and to increase the visibility of mobility programmes in order to remove cultural barriers, reduce youth unemployment and create a deeper european identity.
in writing. ‒ while the report in question has some positive aspects, such as the recognition of education as a fundamental human right and a public good to which everyone must have equal access, it also has some critical elements. in particular, there is a lack of clear denunciation of the failure of the youth guarantee programme and the youth employment initiative to meet the proposed objectives. in particular, there is no mention of the inadequacy of these measures and of those taken overall to deal adequately with the very high youth unemployment and the widening gaps in socioeconomic protection and labour rights for young people. in the final analysis, our opinion of the resolution cannot be entirely favourable.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because i support the need for greater integration between the world of school and the world of work.
in writing. i am pleased to support the report which promotes tangible measures for socioeconomic growth and new appropriations to combat unemployment through the promotion of the erasmus+ programme, which is a good follow-up to the objectives previously set by the leonardo programme and which represents for young people the concrete commitment of the union to stimulate, target and invest in the accessibility, integration and mobility of the new generations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on erasmus plus and other tools to promote mobility in the field of fpis a lifelong learning approach - because the erasmus plus programme, which replaces all the different programmes previously implemented, promotes a simpler understanding of the opportunities offered by the european union to young people, as well as the concept of intercultural mobility in higher education. however, the economic disparities existing within the member states and the different development models which create many difficulties in the full implementation of these programmes cannot be overstated. there are situations of severe social crisis caused by the inability to provide employment opportunities for thousands of young people and other situations where there is a lack of qualified young people for a particular production segment. for all these reasons, i believe it is essential to set more far-sighted and ambitious objectives and to define strategies which meet the conditions for the flexibility and operation of education and production systems.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution to encourage student mobility both in academic and vocational training. we are increasingly seeing a successful erasmus programme, which has started sustainable mobility of young students and enabled the exchange of experiences and the development of skills essential for their academic and professional growth. these skills are most in demand in the increasingly competitive professional sector. i therefore believe that it is essential to promote erasmus+ more generally, but above all professional mobility, which has unfortunately not shown the same positive results as educational mobility. we need to optimise the transition from school to work and erasmus is the right tool to do this.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in the field of fpis - a lifelong learning approach. education is a fundamental right which must be accessible to all, taking into account also the needs of people who are victims of different forms of discrimination. learning and training mobility is of primary importance for personal development and helps to contribute to high quality education. learning and vocational training systems need to be made more efficient and accessible, by broadening and improving mobility opportunities, increasing financial resources, removing barriers, so as to contribute to european integration and strengthening the idea of citizenship.
in writing. ‒ we need to do more to end youth unemployment by giving our young people the skills they need for the 21st century economy. in doing so, we must above all promote education and training for non-traditional skills for girls, in order to end discrimination in employment opportunities, close the wage gap. this resolution is an opportunity to resolve these problems as soon as possible, and i have therefore expressed my support for it.
in writing. ‒ i take this opportunity to contribute to the debate by highlighting the achievements already achieved by the region i represent: the region of lombardy. the lombardy region has already responded over the last three years to the concerns we are discussing today. there are personalised work training courses "study in the firm and find a job at school". an interesting combination, which sees a regional law dedicated to the dual system, apprenticeship and internationalisation, giving substance to the school-work alternation (the first region to follow up on the national law 107/2015). the investment in new technologies for all students (web generation) is also important. international mobility and lifelong learning are the two cornerstones of the lombard education system. the regional institutional level is crucial in order to ensure personalised tools and pathways. non-formal skills are the basis of a growth pathway that must accompany institutionalised learning. in the absence of this complementarity, young people risk not seeing the link between their training and the labour market. we must promote a system of recognition of these skills: the only ones that can make a difference are the legal value of the degree itself.
in writing. ‒ we fully support the maragall report which aims to promote the erasmus+ programme and to improve the concept of mobility within the european area. we consider the experience of the leonardo programme, as well as that of the ecvet and europass programmes, to be positive and we consider that it should be continued. vocational training must not be a secondary concern to university education; it is a fundamental tool in the fight against inequalities, offering young people the tools to make a difference in terms of employability and personal fulfilment. we believe that it is in the interest of the member states to support international mobility programmes effectively, also in the context of a comprehensive strategy for economic recovery and the fight against youth unemployment. it is therefore essential to facilitate the mutual recognition between member states of the different pathways and qualifications related to vocational training and, more generally, to remove as far as possible obstacles to international mobility. finally, we believe that it is essential for enterprises to contribute to reducing the gap between the skills required by the world of work and those offered by the education system. we hope that strong cooperation between business and education will strengthen and support mobility programmes.
in writing. ‒ the previous leonardo programme successfully completed the first phase of exchanges and stays for the purpose of studying and working in countries other than the country of residence. its successor, erasmus+, has brought a considerable step forward for the concept of mobility within the european higher education area but at the same time, by compacting everything into a single subject, a structural deficit in the programmes relating to mobility and specifically in the relationship between training and employment has become apparent. i have spoken in favour of this measure, which aims to set more ambitious objectives, both quantitative and qualitative, for some of the lines of activity envisaged by the erasmus+ programme, such as speeding up the completion of the procedures for recognition, accreditation and quality assessment, which should be the common framework for all member states.
in writing. ‒ the differences between member states in curricula and management of schools make it difficult to mobilise young people at european level and require european action which is not only fully applicable to the various national school systems but also respects the educational specificities of each country. all the european initiatives for intra-european mobility for study and work purposes are brought together in a single macro-programme (erasmus plus). however, it noted that the establishment of the erasmus plus programme, while a step forward, had at the same time caused a slowdown in mobility for vocational training. given the existence in some geographical areas of a large gap between the skills and abilities possessed and those required by the market, an ambitious offer of mobility for both categories therefore appears necessary to reduce the high rate of youth unemployment in europe. in view of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy of creating more jobs and promoting global competitiveness, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that learning and training mobility is extremely important for the socioeconomic inclusion of young people, personal development and the strengthening of multicultural dialogue. the challenges in this regard are many, given the unemployment rate across the union, the need to make lifelong learning and vocational education and training systems not only more efficient but also more accessible and inclusive for disadvantaged groups and people with special needs remains high. in other words, mobility must be facilitated in order to enhance its attractiveness and to balance access opportunities to professional positions in order to generate positive effects on social cohesion and the quality of the labour market. education is a basic human right and a public good and must therefore be accessible on an equal footing. the commission and the member states must work to remove cultural and socio-economic barriers to ensure that fdi programmes are accessible to all citizens without discrimination, and to increase the capacity of women in fields such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics to reduce the current skills and representation gap in these fields.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus+ programme was created to replace several previous programmes. while the adoption of the erasmus+ programme has brought a significant step forward for the concept of mobility within the european higher education area, it is also important to note the specific weight of mobility in terms of vocational training studies. the previous leonardo programme had successfully completed the first phase of exchanges and stays for the purpose of studying and working in countries other than the country of residence. but the consolidation of all these into a single programme and the fallout from the economic crisis have revealed a structural deficit in programmes relating to mobility and in particular in the relationship between training and employment. i voted in favour of this report in order to allow the new strategies envisaged in the erasmus+ programme to offer maximum flexibility, to adapt to very different realities and to facilitate coordination and maximum operationality in the service of mobility, which is conceived as a useful tool for promoting employment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on the report on the promotion of mobility in vocational education and training (vet). we believe that high unemployment is even more dramatic and worrying for certain particular categories such as young people and women. this calls for determined action at european level, starting with lifelong learning programmes such as erasmus+. we recognize that, in general, the report proposes good measures to strengthen these programmes, with the aim of eliminating all socioeconomic and linguistic barriers. we voted in favour of those paragraphs that called for greater coordination with civil society in the programming phase, decent working conditions and pay for students and trainees, and a focus of vet on areas such as the circular economy, sustainable mobility and decarbonisation. however, we believe that the report does not take a sufficiently firm position in condemning the failure of the measures taken so far to combat youth unemployment and in excluding the fossil fuel energy sectors and the companies operating in them from the ifp programming. in view of these serious criticisms, which jeopardise the promotion of a truly equitable, sustainable and future-oriented access to mobility in vet, we did not vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ learning and training mobility is important for personal development, social inclusion of young people, multicultural dialogue, tolerance, the ability to work in an intercultural environment and active citizenship have clearly demonstrated potential for high quality education and occupational skills. in particular, i welcome the call in the report to the commission, the member states and public employment services to implement the dissemination and awareness raising of the erasmus+ programme and other instruments for smes to promote worker mobility.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the erasmus+ and vet programmes and the proposal to pay more attention to their socioeconomic impact. these programmes are not only an important means for young european citizens to travel and develop their european consciousness, but also a concrete political response to combat the serious phenomenon of youth unemployment, which now exceeds the 20% threshold in our continent. i particularly appreciate the emphasis on vocational education and training (vet), which is the kind of learning that is not based on traditional university studies but on the practice of manual trades. the report calls for the extension of the european network of exchanges in this field, thus enabling both young jobseekers to meet a wider offer and companies to find more motivated future workers.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus+ programme enables the training of european citizens who share the same heritage of values common to all the member states of the union. while welcoming the report of the committee on culture and education, it is nevertheless necessary to emphasize the importance of making the programme even more accessible and usable, in particular by reducing and simplifying bureaucratic procedures, which are a real obstacle to mobility, perhaps by creating a single online management platform where all the necessary documents can be entered by the participants and the institutions involved. it is also important to provide financing tailored to the cost of living in the specific destinations, covering a larger share of the costs. improving the service we offer can strengthen the eu and support a programme which creates more union and more europe every year.
in writing. the report has some positive aspects in that it makes it clear that education is a fundamental human right and a public good that must be accessible to all. the eu and the member states are called upon to work towards the elimination of all socioeconomic barriers which hinder equal access for all citizens to education and vocational training opportunities, including mobility. however, while the commission and the member states are asked to ensure that adequate resources are allocated to the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative, the reason for the failure of the policies implemented so far is not analysed. measures to deal adequately with the very high youth unemployment, the widening gap in socioeconomic conditions and the loss of labour rights by young people have proved insufficient. we need to do more. in the context of the policies for the implementation of the erasmus+ programme, the text mentions only one reference framework: the european schoolnet. it is a non-profit organisation which brings together in partnership ministries of education, schools, teachers, researchers but also industries, including shell. in view of these factors, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ some of the premises and considerations expressed in the report are shared, especially where there is a lack of transparency and democratic accountability in the functioning of certain financial institutions and bodies. however, the problem arises when solutions are proposed to make these bodies more efficient and democratic. firstly, it is proposed that a european code of conduct on transparency, integrity and accountability be established to guide the action of eu representatives in international organisations and bodies: the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the second step is to create a single representation for the eu in these organisations, thus also limiting the possibilities for national intervention. the last important proposal would be to create a new world financial organization, the consequences of which are difficult to fathom today. for the reasons i have given, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the global economic crisis has made the interdependence of the world's economic and financial systems increasingly apparent. the need for a new type of global democratic governance is becoming increasingly evident, as is the lack of a single european voice within international institutions. i have decided to vote in favour of the goulard report because i believe it provides a timely analysis of the relationship between the eu and international institutions in economic matters, while also pointing out the problems that need to be addressed. the most important challenges relate in particular to the issues of transparency and accountability which pass through a clear statement of the principle of verification of commitments made in the different venues. the role of parliament can be extremely important in this context, as it is the privileged forum for public debate on issues concerning international economics and finance. the basic objective must remain to protect the strategic interests of the eu and the euro area with the ambitious goal of single representation in international bodies.
in writing. ‒ it is sheer folly to want to deprive the member states of their little decision-making power in the economic field in order to delegate it to those supranational bodies which do not serve the interests of our citizens and our territories. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and employment, the role of the european union in multilateral cooperation needs to be reviewed. the eu has always proved stronger when it has been able to speak with one voice on the international stage. the aim of our action must therefore be to strengthen this practice, with the ambition of achieving in the near future a single european representation also within the world financial institutions and bodies, especially the imf. the eu must be able to shape its own future and defend common interests, especially those of euro-zone members, when discussing the main issues of global finance. but all this must be accompanied by increased democratic control and greater openness to our citizens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the european parliament can play a decisive role in this game. i believe that the resolution we have adopted is an important step forward, because it aims to combine a more united and influential eu, but at the same time more open to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the role of the eu in the international monetary and financial institutions needs to be re-examined, both in terms of external representation and in terms of the union's internal decision-making procedures, with particular attention to the role of the european parliament, which, as the body representing the citizens of the union, should be given greater weight.
in writing. ‒ financial stability is crucial to the investment needed for growth, but we cannot have a truly stable financial system if as europeans we are not able to define and enforce common rules and standards of conduct at supranational level. and we cannot adopt common rules of conduct which are not based on full transparency and the assumption of responsibility by all market players. it is important to stress that in the face of private interests and outside experts, it is parliament, as the representative of the interests of all citizens, which must have the last word. european institutions and national governments have often struggled to provide satisfactory answers to simple and legitimate questions from citizens about security and transparency in the financial dynamics of the international market: it is time for the union to make the qualitative leap necessary to respond to citizens' demands by implementing all the necessary decisions, both technical and political.
in writing. ‒ the text outlines nightmarish scenarios of 'hyper-globalisation' and an even more marked shift of economic power to supranational organisations. for the northern league, most of these bodies are the negation of democracy and popular sovereignty. the eurogroup, which is already a place of production of mischief as an informal body, is explicitly mentioned, let alone if it were to receive official status. the 'censorship' that is being applied to suppress the voices of dissent in the international arena by those countries which do not conform to the european majority is incredible.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on the role of the eu in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies, as i believe that as we become increasingly sensitive to the issues of a democratic framework for global governance, to meet the challenges of an effective allocation of resources for growth and jobs, the panama papers revelation represents a serious threat to the stability of the financial system, which is now a global public good. i can only stress that the issues of inconsistency and fragmentation of financing methods, the need for a concept of 'natural' transparency in financial processes and not just imposed, and the need to protect sensitive market information are all coming up forcefully. i therefore expect that the commission's proposal to promote greater tax transparency by companies with a turnover of over eur 750 million, with a duty to disclose, will not meet with any resistance in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report covers parliament's position on how to strengthen the eu's role in international organisations. although some aspects of the report were certainly agreeable, such as the criticism of a lack of transparency and democratic accountability in the functioning of some institutions, the text is equally controversial as regards the solutions envisaged in order to make these bodies more efficient and democratic. the proposal for a european code of conduct on transparency on the one hand, and the creation of a single representative for the eu from the top, are in fact solutions that would tend to severely limit the possibility of national intervention by the member states, which would be forced to respect the will expressed by the union without any possibility of dissent. in view of these criticisms, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve cooperation between member states in the financial field. i believe that the european union itself could make a useful contribution to the emergence of a multilateral dialogue on economic and financial matters. i feel it is my duty as a member of the european parliament to make practical progress towards financial stability and growth in our countries. i believe that the european union is a major financial power and that this is possible through continuous dialogue between its member states. for these reasons i voted in favour, because this dialogue gives concrete answers to the problems of the citizens. the report also calls for such cooperation to be transparent and consistent with the union's fundamental values, all of which i have always defended politically.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the malfunctioning of some international financial institutions and bodies, such as the international monetary fund, the oecd, the g20 and the financial stability board (fsb). the solution proposed in the report to solve the malfunctioning of these bodies does not seem to be adequate at all, but it offers the possibility of creating a sort of 'european code of conduct' on the issues of transparency and accountability to guide eu action. this proposal is a clear denial of the freedom of action of the representatives of the states in favour of hegemonic positions within the union, and it is no coincidence that the report has been entrusted to one of the leading voices of european federalists, who are in favour of a federal europe. the report also proposes the establishment of a single eu representation in international financial organisations, which would undermine pluralism and the possibility for individual member states to oppose. for the reasons i have mentioned, i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ at the global and regional level, numerous institutions have been created with the aim of ensuring responsible global governance and ensuring the stability of the international system. the eu, through its various institutions, is itself an integral part of this network. however, there are indications that this system of actors may need to be reviewed and reorganised. firstly, this system is still based on operating procedures without any real democratic controls. in addition, the distribution of respective tasks and missions within this network is unclear and is a cause for concern within the eu. finally, it cannot be overlooked that the representation of states in international organizations still suffers from an under-representation of the developing countries, which are therefore in a clearly disadvantaged position. i voted in favour of parliament's resolution which calls for a better representation of the euro area in international institutions through more effective coordination, greater coherence and effective transparency in the international system.
in writing. ‒ i am absolutely opposed to the report, which in some passages goes against democracy and popular sovereignty, but instead helps unbridled globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the role of the eu in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies, because i believe that there should be greater clarity on who should make decisions at international level and particularly in the financial sector. as far as the eurozone is concerned, this need is felt even more strongly. it expresses first of all a need for democracy for the eurozone to defend its strategic interests. so far we have representation of the interests of europe and the euro area, which has been very fragmented, and this is a deplorable situation given the crucial importance of what is at stake for financial stability and in particular for growth and employment. on the contrary, the eu could make a significant contribution to the emergence of a more balanced multilateral cooperation in economic and financial matters. i also strongly shared, in the light of the 2008 crisis, the need to strengthen global economic governance through the promotion of international bodies with a capacity to act and governed by clear rules and thus to develop a concerted eu strategy within supranational bodies. last but not least, the need to give a stronger voice to the emergence of a new and inclusive approach in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the role of the european union in the framework of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies. the report highlights some essential aspects of financial transactions. first, the need for a strengthened european governance is highlighted. the commission is therefore proposing to set up a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments and the implementation of the euro. the free movement of capital, a pillar of the european single market, requires mechanisms for the regulation and stability of the financial system to be defined at supranational level. in addition, the verification of commitments should be determined by global implementation procedures. the failure to take effective measures to combat illicit activities has led to a growing distrust of citizens over the years. for this reason, the european parliament must be given a leading role, it must regain its centrality. the elected representatives, together with the rest of the european institutions, have shown their capacity to act and to set up supervisory, banking resolution and rescue bodies in response to the crisis that has hit the continent in recent years. financial markets also need new regulation and it is crucial that parliament plays a central role in the definition of new rules.
in writing. - on the issue at hand, i voted in favour. i am convinced that the stability of the financial system must be guaranteed at european level and that the european institutions therefore have a central role to play. i would nevertheless like to see more attention paid to citizens, through greater involvement of the european parliament and the national parliaments. moreover, increased cooperation at european level on financial matters can strengthen the eu's position vis-à-vis other international partners.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the global nature of capital flows and financial professions, the role of public action in regulating the financial sector should be modified. the eu has created a world-class internal market for financial services, has recognised financial centres, a committee to prevent systemic risks (esrb) and has experience in supranational democracy and the monitoring of state defaults. given the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and employment, i believe that reviewing the eu's role in multilateral cooperation at the global level can strengthen our influence and better ensure the protection of the interests of the euro area. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report calling for a strengthening of international regulatory cooperation, taking stock of the eu's role in this area and expressing the need for greater involvement of the european parliament. in the current international economic and financial framework, the fragmentation and diversity of the various private organisations and actors (imf, g20, oecd to name a few) create a lack of coherence which is causing delays in regulatory action at international level, for example in the fight against tax evasion. the powers and functioning of the organisations involved should therefore be clarified to ensure the independence and transparency of the decisions taken. as regards the role of the eu in the framework of international financial institutions and bodies, i support the need to rationalise its presence in multilateral organisations, for example by considering the unification of the two seats allocated to the european council and the commission at the g20 meetings, in order to be able to defend european interests more strongly and play a more decisive role in international economic and financial bodies.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the sensitive issue of the eu's role in international organisations. different solutions are proposed. the first calls for the creation of a european code of conduct on transparency to guide the action of eu representatives in international organisations and the second calls for the creation of a single representation for the eu in international organisations. this would mean obliging the member states to respect the will expressed by the eu by depriving them of any freedom of action and dissent from choices dictated by those who impose hegemonic positions. finally, there is a call for a new world financial organization, which is difficult to achieve, especially because of the consequences it could entail. on the one hand, we believe that greater cooperation between states is needed at international level, both at the level of eu countries and with the various global partners, but on the other hand, we believe that the solution cannot be to standardize everything in a single model. that is why we have opposed this approach from the outset, which marks the watershed between those who want more europe at all costs and those who want a different, collaborative and supportive europe, without impositions and technocratic approaches brought down from above but democratically authenticated by the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ini report on the role of the european union in the context of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions. the report suggests greater international cooperation and greater transparency with strong involvement of the european parliament. the european union should optimise and codify its representation in multilateral organisations. the european commission should also be more accountable to its citizens. finally, the report suggests a careful assessment of the two positions taken by the european council and the european commission at the g20. i am firmly convinced that these measures are necessary to improve the international financial, monetary and regulatory system.
in writing. ‒ the role of the eu in international organisations is one of the issues that is increasingly being stressed by advocates of a federal europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the problem arises when solutions are sought to make these bodies more 'efficient' and 'democratic'. it is proposed that a european code of conduct on transparency, integrity and accountability be established to guide the action of eu representatives in international organisations and bodies. the second step is to create a single representation for the eu in these organisations, thus also limiting national possibilities for intervention. the last important proposal would be to create a new world financial organization, the consequences of which are difficult to fathom today. it is clear that greater cooperation between states is needed at international level, but the solution cannot be to standardize everything on a single model, which has already proved to be unsuccessful in its application in the form of a single currency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because traditional fishing, especially in coastal and island areas, is an identity and a way of life, as well as the main source of economic livelihood for thousands of micro-enterprises, often family-run. it is traditional fishing that is suffering most, both in terms of compliance with the standards imposed by the european union and in terms of the management of fishing quotas by the member states, which are regularly excluding traditional fishing in favour of large shipowners. if we really want to support our fishing communities and districts, and we must, there are two ways: firstly, derogations must be granted on the basis of regionalisation in order to create a fisheries policy which favours the productive environment rather than hindering it, and secondly, these fishermen must be supported by giving them priority in the allocation of emff funds and by progressively increasing the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen.
in writing. ‒ coastal fisheries have always been a key area of european policy. considering that 80% of the european fleet is currently made up of vessels engaged in small-scale coastal fishing, it is clear that the sector makes a huge contribution to economic growth and employment. the tomasic report, however, highlighted the need for a review of technical measures to make better use of regional specificities. the creation of marine protected areas and investments to finance the development of activities complementary to fishing, which highlight the multi-purpose nature and the enormous variety of fisheries at regional level, are encouraged. for these reasons i voted in favour, particularly considering the incredible benefits that both islands and coastal regions could derive from the introduction of socially and ecologically sustainable fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, revenues from small-scale fishing have been severely reduced by rising fuel costs and the reduction in the value of fish at first sale, affecting many small fishing communities. from the coasts of french guiana to those of the adriatic, however, coastal and island fisheries continue to be an important source of employment and a way of life for many citizens of the union. 80% of the european fleet is engaged in this activity, together with the collection of shellfish, but the methods used vary widely depending on the geographical area in which it is practised. the tomašić report, which i support, calls on the commission to use regionalisation to adapt the definition of coastal fishing to the specificities of the different areas, and also calls for particular attention to be paid, when drawing up legislative proposals, to the different impact that fishing techniques and gear can have in the different areas. attention to coastal fisheries requires a holistic view of the dynamics between environment, tourism, economy and innovation. the blue economy is linked to the resources devoted to innovation under horizon 2020, but this must be exploited to the full by creating transnational public-private partnerships that can foster the growth of coastal regions.
in writing. ‒ the enhancement of small-scale fisheries in the member states and the reduction of the burden on operators through improved regional governance are important goals. for these reasons i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that coastal fishing plays a fundamental role in the development and economy of very large areas of the union and that it should therefore be supported in a consistent manner, especially in the drive towards innovation, so as to improve its profitability and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is of particular importance in some eu countries. it provides a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. for most coastal and island areas, fishing is a way of life and a significant source of livelihood. areas dependent on coastal fisheries require specific measures and support in order to grow and develop. coastal regions often face decline and depopulation, mainly for employment reasons. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) should therefore help to expand coastal economies by investing in data collection and promoting more scientific research. a change in community law is needed to preserve traditional fishing gear and techniques used in coastal fishing and to define a clear distinction between commercial and coastal fishing.
in writing. ‒ good own-initiative report on the development of artisanal (and commercial) fishing with references to the cfp and regional governance with some relief for operators. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the commission should support innovative projects and legal provisions to facilitate the development of regions dependent on fisheries. in particular, priority should be given to projects focusing on the sustainable creation and maintenance of jobs, the introduction of new technologies in the promotion and marketing of fisheries products and services, the promotion of fisheries tourism and gastronomy linked to artisanal fisheries products, and all activities related to environmental protection, the development of renewable marine resources and the promotion of sustainable growth. the commission and the member states should also progressively increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen in order to promote this type of fishing which is socially and ecologically sustainable. it is also essential to give priority to small-scale coastal fishing in the allocation of funding from the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the eu fleet and provides a large number of jobs. the report states that the revision of the technical measures framework must take account of the specificities of regional coastal fisheries and encourages the introduction of marine protected areas to promote sustainable fishing and facilitate the fight against irregular fishing. the commission is invited to promote investment in diversifying fishing activities through the development of complementary activities and the multipurpose of careers in order to promote the development of tourism. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the economy of coastal and island areas is strongly linked to fishing activities, especially the artisanal fisheries sector, which is the main and sometimes the only source of income for many communities. the economic crisis we are experiencing has not spared this sector, and in particular that of small-scale coastal fishing, which is also affected by the imposition of technical measures on the use of fishing gear and techniques provided for in the so-called 'mediterranean' regulation. the protection of coastal fisheries requires a detailed characterisation of small-scale fisheries, and for this reason a comprehensive and complete picture is needed, without which there is a high risk of decisions not being appropriate to the sector. data are needed to design actions and interventions adapted to local needs and to chart the path to a biologically, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable coastal fishery before reviewing existing legislation. as small-scale fishing is an activity linked to local traditions, plans to safeguard them and to develop complementary activities compatible with the vocations of the area, such as nautical tourism or recreational fishing, could help to revive these areas. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it not only protects coastal fisheries but also lays a solid foundation for their development. this report proposes to regionalise the rules for coastal fishing by adapting them on a case-by-case basis, country by country. i think this is an important step forward because i believe it allows this practice to develop in an appropriate way, while fully respecting the individual countries and the individual specificities of this activity. i also voted in favour of this because i believe that coastal fishing is not only a source of high employment but also a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing. i therefore think it is essential to strengthen this activity by regionalising its regulation, because it is full of positive externalities not only in terms of social and economic cohesion but also in terms of environmental protection and development. i believe that strengthening this activity could lead to an increase in employment and also to greater profitability in the sector.
in writing. ‒ in some island territories, artisanal and traditional fishing is an important, if not the main, source of income at local level, making these regions highly dependent on this type of fishing. although there is a well-established common fisheries policy at european level, the commission has not taken sufficient account of the specific socioeconomic characteristics of the areas dependent on artisanal and traditional fishing. it therefore seems essential to pay more attention to this type of fishing, which is also more socially and ecologically sustainable. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution that the commission should take account of the specificities and socioeconomic characteristics of the areas where traditional and artisanal fishing is a key economic sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because of the fundamental role that coastal fishing plays as a source of livelihood and development for many regions of the eu. as already recognised in the previous regulations on the common fisheries policy and the european maritime fund, these areas require further support to foster economically and environmentally sustainable growth. i am particularly pleased that the report considers the possibility of using instruments which make it possible to implement activities which are complementary to traditional fishing such as catering, environmental services, cultural activities linked to fishing and tourism linked to sport fishing. i welcome the recommendation that legislation should protect and promote the different coastal fishing practices, taking into account the specificities of the individual areas concerned, and in particular supporting small-scale fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because it promotes and supports small-scale fishing and also provides for some relief of the burden on operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the basis that it will support non-industrial-scale fishing in general, and that this is important because these smaller and often family-run fisheries play an important role in many rural coastal communities all around europe. this resolution and the support it could provide would not only support the local fisheries themselves but also the surrounding community and countryside and it could help to maintain an important historic way of life. with this report we also stress the great social and economic impact of small-scale fishery. support of small costal fisheries means that we promote a more sustainable way of fishing and support the availability of local products for the local consumer. both of these effects can help save us from negative environmental impacts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on innovation and the diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in regions dependent on fishing because i am convinced that coastal fishing is a fundamental and indispensable activity for the economic, environmental and social fabric of those southern european territories which are experiencing sustainable growth and which have always been nourished by genuine forms of economy. i am convinced of the importance of the blue economy as a new driving force for the development of coastal areas, as a means of countering emigration and the desertification of those areas and as a source of jobs for small and very small producers. i welcome the call on the commission to adapt the definition of coastal fishing by involving the regional level and by taking account of the characteristics of the territories, and to support innovative projects and legal provisions which facilitate the development of this activity in coastal, island and outermost regions. i also welcome the call for better use of the emff to promote coastal areas, the call for instruments to promote female employment in coastal fishing and the references to the social economy sector and to groups promoting local development: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the coastal regions.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur cites the unavailability of data as one of the main obstacles. fishing is sometimes a small, almost informal industry. in light of this, i agree that we need to learn more about small-scale fishing to support our communities with more money for research. traditional coastal fishing has declined in some areas, where a tourist industry is developing. i agree with the rapporteur that we must keep in mind the interests of the sector both for tourism and fisheries as important sources of growth.
in writing. ‒ regulation 380/2013 on the common fisheries policy promotes the economic development of coastal and island areas, and that the fisheries in question contribute to the growth of employment in these areas, and regulation 508/2014 on the emff recognises a strong focus on this type of fisheries and that in the current programming period 2014-2020, research and innovation benefit from significant european funding through the horizon 2020 programme. the current lack of information and difficulty in accessing data on the state of the seas and oceans requires greater investment in research and innovation. finally, diversification in the coastal fisheries sector would make it possible to cope with the economic difficulties of certain geographical areas due to the over-exploitation of resources, with a consequent drop in profits, and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a very important type of fishery in eu countries, and is particularly important because it provides a high employment rate and is socially and environmentally sustainable. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the idea that areas dependent on coastal fishing require specific measures and support which offer them opportunities for growth and development. this requires closing the various gaps in areas which are crucial to the viability of the sector. investment in sea and ocean monitoring systems has increased in recent years, but is still insufficient, and the process of obtaining and obtaining the appropriate authorisations for the use of data is itself time-consuming and requires additional financial resources. this is a major constraint on the development of innovation and the use of resources, which is also affected by the lack of collaboration between the public and private sectors. another important aspect concerns the diversification of the fisheries sector, which is necessary to cope with the decline in employment and profitability. given the importance of the environment and a sustainable economy, the diversification of fisheries must make use of the contribution of activities linked to renewable energy sources and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ definitions and classifications of coastal fisheries vary from one member state to another. for most coastal and island areas it is a traditional form of fishing which is a way of life and a significant source of livelihood; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected and that the environment is protected. the basic regulation of the new 2013 cfp focuses on the economic development of coastal areas. the emff (european maritime fund) also pays particular attention to the sector. considering that some coastal and island areas are facing a significant economic decline, the european commission was invited to invest and support investment in diversification through the development of complementary activities linked to traditional fishing. the commission is therefore invited to initiate a procedure to amend existing legislation, in particular the 2006 regulation on management measures for the sustainable development of fisheries resources in the mediterranean, which has been adopted and which must be aligned with the new cfp. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ small-scale fishing accounts for about 80% of the european fleet. italy has one of the largest small-scale fishing sectors in europe, with some 7 500 vessels and more than 13 000 workers on board. this sector has always represented for our country not only an important economic and commercial resource, but also an opportunity to combine an activity with a strong social and cultural value with a more sustainable management of fisheries and environmental resources. our artisanal fishermen can be considered as the "guardians of the coastal zone", with traditions and knowledge that cannot be lost because of the serious crisis that is dangerously undermining the sector. within the eu, coastal fishing varies significantly between member states and within member states. it is therefore important to adopt a regionalised approach in order to define small-scale coastal fishing activities correctly and to adapt the existing european rules to the characteristics and socioeconomic specificities of the various areas. i hope that the commission will take up parliament's recommendations in order to protect small-scale fishing and to promote its development through innovation and diversification. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ for coastal and island regions, small-scale fishing is not only of particular importance for local development and employment, but also represents a socially and environmentally sustainable economic activity that must be protected and promoted. i therefore voted in favour of the report which calls on the european commission to support, by specific measures, new opportunities for growth and development in coastal regions, through innovation and diversification of activities complementary to fishing, through investment in cleaner fishing vessels, environmental services linked to fishing, cultural and educational activities linked to fishing and tourism linked to sport fishing. i also fully support the call for the regulatory framework on the sustainable management of fisheries resources in the mediterranean to be amended to allow the preservation and enhancement of traditional coastal fishing techniques, such as tuna fishing, so that a clear distinction is made between commercial and traditional fisheries in line with the different impacts on marine resources caused by the two types of fishing.
in writing. ‒ the tomasic report is a very important vote on a subject, coastal fishing, which represents 80% of european fisheries and is the sector with the highest percentage of people employed in some european regions. there are very different seas on our continent, as the report says, and the commission must take account of the differences not only in fishing conditions but also in the size and presence of the catch when determining the rules for european fisheries, which cannot be the same for all the seas, from sicily to norway. it is also important to give greater weight to the role of the fishing communities, which must be able to have a say in decisions which affect them directly. so this report, let us continue to work to give fishermen and the communities that live from small-scale fishing the right recognition and help in our policy choices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are communities that live off fishing and there are some that die off fishing. there are fishermen who, as a sign of the weakness and fragility of the external dimension of fisheries policy, are the target of gunfire or of actual ambushes, are unjustly imprisoned, have their boats seized. i am referring in particular to fishermen on the southern shore of the mediterranean who encounter or clash with the authorities of the neighbouring countries who violate their right to fish safely. when we talk about the external dimension of fisheries, international cooperation, agreements, when the european union claims to represent the european fisheries sector in negotiations with third countries, it is these fishermen that it must think about, it is their interests that it must protect, it is the respect for their rights that it must absolutely demand, life and safety first and economic activity second.
in writing. ‒ the common fisheries policy (cfp) aims to make the fisheries and aquaculture sectors increasingly sustainable from an ecological, economic and social point of view. the aim is therefore to promote a dynamic fisheries industry while ensuring a decent standard of living for the fishing communities. for these reasons, the eu has committed itself to ensuring that sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries respect the environmental standards and the ecosystem approach that underpin the cfp. for these reasons, it was requested that the european parliament should play a more active role in the approval procedures, with the recognition of a full and immediate right of information, which undoubtedly ensures transparency and controllability of the protocols. in view of these considerations, i voted in favour, confident in the commitment of the european institutions to the protection and promotion of environmentally sustainable fisheries, including agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's leading fish markets, the largest importer of fishery products and the third largest fleet on the planet. the fish processing industry plays a key role in the european economy, providing a large number of jobs that need to be safeguarded. the report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, which i supported today, effectively illustrates the strategic priorities that must be pursued. in a global context of the emergence of new players such as china, taiwan and korea, operating with fleets operating to standards less stringent than those required by community rules, there is an increasing need to exploit the union's potential for influence. the crucial issue must be that of transparency. the commitment to information on the fishing activities of other actors operating in third countries with which agreements are signed must be accompanied by the creation of an eu-wide database covering all private agreements between union shipowners and third countries, as well as joint ventures between eu and third country companies. the new eu cfp, if properly implemented, will significantly improve the standards of the union's ocean fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the european union needs to use its soft power and international influence to reach an agreement that regulates the practice of ocean fishing and allows for an economically and biologically sustainable development of the sector.
in writing. ‒ the eu is currently the largest market for fishery products and has one of the largest fleets in the world. in the eu, the external dimension concerns fishing by eu-flagged vessels on the high seas and in waters under the jurisdiction of third countries, such as in the case of a partnership agreement. many fleets from countries such as china, korea and taiwan operate under less stringent environmental, safety and social regulations. the best strategy to achieve the goal of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence on the international scene to improve fisheries management and transparency standards, by promoting the harmonisation of eu and non-eu fleet rules on access to non-eez areas, fighting iuu fishing, improving fish supply for food security and supporting the work done mainly by women in the fisheries sector.
in writing. the external dimension of the cfp concerns ocean fisheries; the use of local crews for landing and on-site processing of the catch is desirable. the profits of eu fleets are mainly determined by the individual eu agreements with third countries, although a uniform framework especially on illegal fishing would be desirable. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to ensure that a chapter on the external dimension, containing minimum conditions for bilateral agreements and an explicit reference to common rules both inside and outside eu waters, is finally included in the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy (cfp). i would stress that the eu should not negotiate sustainable fisheries partnership agreements with third countries where corruption is an accepted practice. i call on the eu to promote good governance through these agreements, and specifically the good management of public revenues from the fisheries sector and the financial contribution. i note that eu shipowners sign private agreements with governments of third countries which fall outside the scope of the cfp and i am concerned that the commission is not informed of such agreements. all too often this results in unfair competition, particularly with eu shipowners operating under bilateral agreements. the commission must therefore improve transparency as soon as possible by setting up and publishing a database of all private agreements providing access to third country fishing zones.
in writing. ‒ the external dimension of the new cfp includes international agreements and fishing activities in areas outside national jurisdiction. the report stresses the need to achieve mutual benefits from agreements in this field and stresses the importance of promoting the protection of ecosystems. the environmental aspect is, however, as has been stressed, also an end in itself and the text therefore also stresses the need to obtain more complete scientific information and data on the capture of animals. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ i was prepared to vote in favour of this report because it seeks to protect fisheries as a natural, food and commercial resource, a fundamental issue for the european union, which is still the world's largest market for fishery products. i agree with this report because it seeks to safeguard this common resource from the threat of over-exploitation or even illegal fishing in such a way that the productivity of the fish stocks is not affected in the long term. the objective is to achieve a sustainable, ecological, economic and social fisheries based on transparency and the participation of each member state. all these are objectives for which i could only express my support.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the situation of international agreements and fishing activities in areas not falling within national jurisdiction (fadn), with reference to common rules outside union waters. the eu has an obligation to ensure that sustainable fisheries agreements are based on the best possible scientific advice, stressing the importance of sustainable fisheries to safeguard the future of coastal communities, employment generated by the fisheries sector and food security. cfp agreements must be based on a fair relationship between the eu and its third country partners, producing mutual benefits. eu action needs to be targeted at protecting ecosystems and sharing information and data. i believe that the european parliament should have a more active role in the approval process, and should be informed at all stages of the conclusion or renewal of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, in order to increase transparency. i am in general agreement with the report presented, and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu must commit itself to strengthening cooperation with local and regional bodies, and especially with the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, thus avoiding unpleasant conflicts in which community crews are often involved, and putting an end to the so-called 'fish war'. i also think that the call for the eu to make a stronger commitment to promoting social and environmental standards in third country fisheries and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing should be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i abstain as the report should deal with the subject better and more fully.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements, because i believe that europe can and must play a role in promoting sustainable fishing standards internationally, spreading its principles and values also to third countries. i am thinking of the eu as the driving force and promoter of international rules that ensure high social, environmental and biodiversity protection standards, ensure transparency, guarantee fair competition between vessels flying the flags of different countries and at the same time promote economic activity and specifically the fisheries sector. i welcome the reference to the issue of flag-swapping and fraudulent practices by some operators in the sector to breach eu rules, as well as the support for eu legislation on illegal fishing, which is a recent example of the eu's ability to influence the behaviour of actors on the global stage.
in writing. the promotion of fisheries agreements at international level must certainly be treated in parallel with the situation of our fisheries and our fishermen. in view of this, it is also necessary to create international agreements which will enable us to safeguard our fishing activities. in this connection, i expressed my positive opinion on the intention to show leadership, political will and support towards states outside the union in order to improve the management and transparency of fishing activities in international waters. it is our aim to promote the development and maintenance of sustainable fisheries beyond europe. thanks to strict traceability measures and the continuous fight against illegal fishing, the european market is now one of the largest in the world. the extreme competition in the oceans and our experience in this field lead us to commit ourselves to establishing an increasingly fruitful relationship in the field of agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements. the european union is one of the world's major fisheries powers and one of the main markets and importers for fishery products, which means that strict measures in terms of traceability, improved fisheries management standards and transparency are needed. the european union and the member states must work together to strengthen their obligations and take on greater responsibility towards their own citizens involved in fishing activities outside the union. this will enable the eu to improve standards in ocean fisheries and encourage other actors to improve their own fisheries policies.
in writing. ‒ there is great potential in 'blue growth' in the oceans, but as with ongoing operations in the oceans we need to ensure that it meets environmental standards, especially after the paris talks. so it's important that we keep our oceans clean according to international standards. i believe that europe must show its leadership in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the issue under consideration, as i believe that the fishing practices of some countries at international level and with little regard for environmental sustainability, in addition to weakening the eu's competitiveness in the fisheries sector, have underlined the need for the eu to play a more central role in the international context. standardised practices by member states would allow the eu to effectively defend the investments of european fishing vessels operating outside eu waters and would also stimulate the development of local economies in third countries. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ with its influence in the world of fisheries, the eu is in a position to encourage other actors, both coastal and ocean-fishing states, to improve their fisheries policies. the remarkable success of the iuu regulation (combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing) is a clear demonstration that this approach can work if the eu shows sufficient political will, leadership, objectivity and appropriate support for adaptation to new requirements by developing countries. i voted in favour because i believe that the new eu cfp has considerable benefits and, if properly implemented, will improve the standards of the union's ocean fisheries.
in writing. ‒ when we talk about fishing in non-european waters, we also talk about fishing in the mediterranean sea. our european fishermen often face unfair competition from fleets of third countries that share the same fishing grounds. different rules for different eu and non-eu fleets not only create a gap in competitiveness between companies, but also put the long-term sustainability of catches at risk. the european union must do more to establish closer cooperation with the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean in order to remedy the current distortions, to support fishermen who are often subject to clashes with third country vessels and thus to put an end to the fisheries war. in this regard, i believe it is crucial to involve local bodies, regional organisations, scientific institutes, observers and national fisheries associations at both european and extra-european level, which, through the exchange of best practice and greater knowledge of management measures, can help to combat illegal and unreported fishing more effectively and to promote a more responsible and sustainable exploitation of our precious resources.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the uniqueness of life, the life that patricia rizzo and so many others have lost, the idea that every life is sacred is the legacy on which contemporary society is built. i say this because i believe that in order to defeat terrorism, we must first ask ourselves how it is possible that our children have come to deny the very heart of our civilization. i know it's a sensitive subject, but i don't think that islam is behind this ideology of death. i think that more than asking about radical islam, we should be asking about the radicalization of islam. these criminals do not marry islam, which is a religion of peace, but instead marry a desperate radicalism, they are the children of the uprooting of global society. more than the result of a religious consciousness, they are the poisonous fruits of a multiculturalism that has in many cases failed. the rhetoric of multiculturalism has often been masked by communitarianism, the idea that men and women of different origins cannot live together, but must each be in separate social groups that then end up being ghettos. the first response to this attack is therefore to rediscover the reasons which unite us and to reaffirm a citizenship which includes rights, but also common values and duties. this reasoning must be accompanied by urgent action: first of all, national governments need to implement the tools that already exist, such as dna data exchange, fingerprint data exchange. the main weapons against terrorism are intelligence and investigations, and europe is lagging behind in this area. unfortunately, terrorists attack us in our unity and we respond in a divided way. we must therefore create a european intelligence service, not just another coordination structure, but a single intelligence service that collects and links information, and we also need a european counter-terrorism super-agent capable of conducting investigations throughout the union, and then we also need determination in foreign policy. i continue to support with great conviction the things that federica mogherini is doing, we must be serious. isis is there also because it is part of a cynical game of regional interests. to defeat isis, we have to start by fighting who buys isis oil in the areas that isis rules and who supplies isis with goods. the west cannot attack isis with one hand and do business with those who feed isis with the other, none of us has the magic wand to defeat terrorism, but we can all provide cohesion, intelligence and humility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that the capital of europe is brussels. there's a study that says that by 2020 more than half of the inhabitants of brussels will be muslim, and this is the european capital? they say that not all muslims are terrorists, that's true, but it's also true that all terrorists are muslims. what do we want to do, do we want to go on and on like this, to be completely subjugated by the muslims? the koran is like a weapon now, they use it like a weapon when they make bombs. what are we waiting for, after new york, madrid, london, paris, twice brussels and others, are we still here to say and try to understand what needs to be said? it's called "islamic terrorism", it's called "islamic terrorism", it has no other name, that's it, and that's where we have to fight. that is where europe must show itself, because when they blow themselves up, they say: "allah akbar", they say. "god is alive". and that would be a normal religion? is that a democratic religion? it is the only religion that in the name of a god kills and harms all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to express my condolences to the victims of the recent terrorist attacks and my closeness to their families. on 22 march i was in brussels and experienced the tension of those hours and i hope that such events will not happen again, although unfortunately the situation remains critical and that is why i am working with my colleagues in the libe committee on a directive on the harmonization of criminal legislation to combat terrorism. we must update the union's legislation in a way that is appropriate to the new international terrorist threat, while respecting our principles. but there is also a need for closer cooperation between national police, intelligence and judicial authorities. but repressive policies alone do not solve the systemic problems that generate such serious violence phenomena that must, even before being fought, be prevented by education and integration to prevent marginalization and radicalization. finally, i hope that the union can further develop its action in the common foreign and defence policy to deal with the complex international issues in which terrorism is rooted.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we know, we have learned with anguish, we have been told, that these terrorists are operating in the shadow cones left by the gaps that exist in our legislation, gaps that could have been filled in the past, at least in part. now i'm really embarrassed to hear people talk who seem to really believe that what they say is true, much more than what actually happens. we know for example that the pnr was blocked in the committee in june 2013, so for years we have been fighting to have this which is certainly not the panacea, but it is a useful tool, very useful, everyone says so, and the director of europol said so again the other day. we had to wait for charlie hebdo, we had to wait for bataclan, we had to wait for the brussels bombings. i hope that on thursday we will vote on this instrument, which, i repeat, is not the panacea but is a useful instrument. (the speaker rejects a request for a blue card from mr veld)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am close to the belgian people and to brussels at this time of sorrow. however, even in the wake of what the home ministers said in the aftermath of the brussels attacks, we must continue to work hard to ensure that all anti-terrorism legislation is passed as soon as possible. finally, after months and months of delay, we are voting this week on the pnr directive. it took a long time to get to a turning point. i am convinced that this tool can be crucial in identifying all foreign fighters, and that it can provide national authorities with useful information about the movements and especially the suspects in our territory. the adoption of the pnr directive will, however, have to be accompanied by an improvement in the exchange of information between the police, by better cooperation between our intelligence services and by a better commitment from all the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, billions of euros stolen from public coffers, money often laundered, the product of illicit trafficking, behind which the mafia is hiding, this is what it is all about and this is the worst aspect of our financial capitalism, the corrupt and infected by the mafia. that is why i say, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, zero tolerance against tax evaders, zero tolerance against tax havens, and that is why we want to set up a committee of inquiry here in the european parliament, so that all the forces are put into action to stamp out tax evasion and there is no shyness. we also want an international conference, a global body that can deal with the fight against flight; and then there are the measures that commissioner moscovici has called for. this was a central point in the government agreement for which we socialists voted for the juncker commission and i am pleased to note the determination and tenacity which is animating the action of the juncker commission and commissioner moscovici. and yet, i ask you to go further, to have more courage also on country-by-country reporting, we need to extend this to all the countries of the world. we cannot limit ourselves, there is a positive effort that we welcome, but we must go further, we must have more courage in the face of such a malignant cancer, the danger of such a malignant cancer. we also ask the european commission to commit itself to introducing a statute for whistleblowers. the trade secrets report is a first step in that direction, but we want a clear political commitment to this. the tax base for corporation tax must also be harmonised. we want a blacklist of tax havens and sanctions for those companies that help evade. the commission and the european parliament must make the eradication of tax evasion the priority of this mandate. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not discriminate and i do not give discounts. i didn't say anything about cañete. the problem is not to exploit these issues for political ends but to make things clear, and to do so everywhere. my position is that clarity must be made everywhere.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the disclosure of the panama papers is a serious blow to the stability of the financial system, which is now a global public good. the need to affirm a concept of natural transparency in financial processes emerges, but it also highlights the need for the european union to respond with determination to drive global governance. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the new proposal by commissioner hill on country-by-country disclosure, i.e. the obligation for companies to make public their balance sheets of activities and tax payments, country by country, must be supplemented by provisions to block the practice of profit shifting to countries with lower taxation. the turnover threshold above which companies are subject to the notification obligation should be increased by extending it to all listed companies with transnational activities. "european union, take a shot". it speaks with one voice to protect european values.
in writing. as always, europe is only outraged when scandals of this kind explode. how can we hope to change the situation when some very high-level politicians are the first to use these methods to extract profits from their own national coffers? i wonder what credibility there is in people like juncker or djiesselbloem, who are themselves part of a system of tax havens within the eu. yesterday we were shocked by luxleaks, today by the panama papers: tomorrow we may find out something about the virgin islands, bermuda or the cayman islands, nothing new under the sun. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it only takes a few hundred euros to set up offshore companies and thus to take away huge resources from the community, and the banks profit from these transactions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the banking sector. the means to intervene are there, what is missing is probably the political will to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the past few months this parliament has approved a reporting text, country by country, under a directive, the one on shareholders' rights, which represents the mountain. today the commission presents the little mouse that was born on that mountain. i do not disdain anything, and i have great respect for the work that has been done, but it cannot be denied that we are facing a largely inadequate solution for the reasons that have been given in the debate. the oecd model was used as a reference, but we considered the oecd model to be largely inadequate, just as your proposal was. think of the threshold. the threshold, as my colleague mrs ferreira reminded you earlier, excludes a substantial proportion not of small businesses but of large multinational companies. the parliament's assumption was that 20 000 firms would be involved, but here we are close to 1 900 involved. our information, our requests, had to include ownership, sales and government subsidies. your proposal does not mention any of this. we had imagined that we would have this information not just from the eu member states but from all the countries in the world where these companies operate. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. so thank you for the effort you've made but realize that we're in a realm for us...
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, you always paint a very optimistic picture of the situation, but the reality is stark. security and defence: it was a big failure. in terms of propaganda alone, isis has achieved a series of heavy and overwhelming victories, which in islamic communities around the world will only produce new memberships, recruitment, funding, while in those communities, not in all of them, the slaughter of christians is celebrated. the challenges were different and needed to be strengthened the secular leadership of the mediterranean countries and in the merciless fight against extremist and terrorist movements, not to strengthen al-nusra against assad just to eliminate a supposed supporter of putin. everyone knows that turkey has been feeding a flow of arms and not just to the anti-assad terrorist groups. and she doesn't say anything about it. we believe that security is based on the strict control of borders, and where the eu does not control these borders, the member states must take them seriously. we call for a different approach, targeting the extremism that generates terrorists and not just the terrorism that is already manifest and then the imams, the mosques, those who spread the word terrorist in the midst of our countries and our homes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the high representative, mrs mogherini, for her words, but also, as all colleagues have acknowledged, for her timely, precise and important contribution to the successful outcome of the negotiations between the european union and cuba. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it cannot be denied that cuba has made important progress in the last twenty years. i would say that many of the progress made are historic, as is the signing of the agreement in cuba on 11 march. of course, much remains to be done, but we can say with certainty that the path we have taken is the right one and we will do everything to maintain it. i think that the common position has clearly been overtaken, many things have to be overcome, the embargo has already been mentioned and i trust that the measure which has punished the cuban people for too long will be overcome. i am reminded of the words of john paul ii, who said that no nation can live alone, and i believe that we are here to be sincerely close to the cuban people and the work presented by the high representative gives us hope for a better future for cuba and for relations with europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, the review of the european strategy for central asia confirms that the region remains a strategic priority for the european union. on the one hand, in the partnership relationship, in recent years, there have been some important positive signs in these young republics, also thanks to the role of soft power that we exercise. the areas of cooperation are numerous: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the region, from energy to border security, from the fight against the radicalisation of terrorism to education and agriculture. on the other hand, many crucial issues remain open which compel us to continue our commitment to supporting the democratic transition process affecting the region, albeit in a differentiated way, in particular the human rights situation, but also that of child labour and forced labour - a subject which i have dealt with in my parliamentary work - corruption, the gaps in the rule of law, freedom of expression, religion, association, tensions between individual countries and the lack of regional cooperation, issues which must compel us even more to continue our commitment to supporting progressive change in a region crucial for the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate president tusk's words that 'this agreement is not perfect', and i understand the sincerely laudable and positive intention that president juncker has expressed: "the ball must be taken from the hands of the dealers of death". however, our doubts, the doubts of my political group, remain. we have concluded the agreement at a time when turkey is closing in on itself, the free press is being suppressed and the rights of minorities are being trampled underfoot. i ask the commission and the council to monitor, as they have said they will, turkey's respect for human rights and humanitarian law, to increase economic and human resources support for greece, to pay particular attention to women and children, and to examine the possibility of european management of hot spots. in all honesty, let's face it, we can criticize this agreement - i am doing it - but we were forced into this agreement by the selfishness and the closure of some eu member states that refused to relocate refugees. none of us has the magic wand to solve these issues, but we all know that the key to winning this challenge lies in a mandatory and automatic mechanism, as proposed by the european commission, on refugees and migrants, and we also have to consider the idea of sanctions against those countries that put the stick between the wheels. it is no longer acceptable for the union to punish a state which exceeds the deficit by zero points and at the same time turn a blind eye to the sabotage of those who do not take responsibility for their immigration policy. we can't be strict on the accounts and lax on the people. we must also have a common strategy, it was said, not just the aegean and the balkans, but landings on the southern shore are increasing and we must also propose a development pact to the african countries, otherwise in the coming months we will see a new exodus to the mediterranean and migrants will arrive, if not from africa, from albania and what are we going to do? we're building walls on the water? the idea of stopping millions of people with walls is not only unrealistic, it's even shameful. i say this also to austria, what is this preventive barrier for 25 refugees a day? what is it? what is it? a useless, shameful, and harmful thing! so, in the next few weeks, we have a historic opportunity, we have the opportunity offered to us by the possibility of reforming dublin. juncker has again offered a pact of alliance with parliament, and i say yes to president juncker, a pact of alliance with parliament, but for a courageous reform that goes deep into the dublin rules, to launch a real common asylum policy at european level. i continue to believe - and i conclude, mr president - that in these difficult times we must maximize what unites us. what unites the genuinely pro-european forces that still exist here and in europe, rather than favouring what divides us. in this difficult time it would be advisable not to turn this house into an agora for the electoral campaign in spain, greece and other countries. let us do it there, let us try to keep our unity here to change europe and to save europe. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that it is very direct, not direct. if a country freely decides, freely, to join the european union, it is bound to respect the decisions that are made within the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we heard today from president tusk that this agreement is not perfect, that everything possible has been done to respect human rights, but that the doubts remain and the same doubts have been shared by president juncker. well, if there were doubts, we should not have proceeded, we should not have proceeded because these are doubts about the risk of violations of fundamental rights. these are doubts based on facts, on history, on even recent events. of course, we are aware that a solution must be found, we are not looking for the golden thread or perfection, as president tusk told us today, but we are looking for a solution and the solution for us is, coincides with the amendment of the dublin regulation, but a real amendment, a real amendment, not the one proposed by the european commission a few days ago. there is no mention of humanitarian corridors in the european commission's proposal, and yet it wants to fight against irregular immigration, so that there is a legal alternative, that there is a legal alternative to reach europe, that the dublin regulation is amended, also on the basis of the principle that the first country of arrival is the one that has the greatest responsibility for asylum applications. it is by changing this principle that a country is prevented from becoming a huge refugee camp. the balkan route is still closed, in idomeni the macedonian police have used tear gas and rubber bullets to injure people, including children, unicef says there are 22 000 refugee children, including 2 000 unaccompanied, amnesty international has denounced turkey as a country that is not safe for refugees. the situation is disastrous and, unfortunately, that is a summary of the effects of the eu-turkey agreement. very little has changed compared to the human situation that existed before, it is clear that by erecting walls the route is not closed, it moves, it moves and the mediterranean route is being reopened, 380 migrants have arrived in crotone, 400 are disembarking in reggio calabria, italy. we are faced with a europe which is taking little action to intervene at the root of the flows, at the real causes of the problem which are wars, the sale of arms and the exploitation of resources belonging to other peoples. we must address the causes and protect the fundamental rights of all. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question, rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. we are politicians and we must deal with solutions from a political and regulatory point of view. we are certainly not a voluntary charity, but the proposals we put on the table, the proposals for solutions we have been presenting for the last two years, are concrete proposals, they are legislative proposals, they are not proposals coming from non-governmental associations. it is a question of humanitarian corridors, it is a question of an arms embargo on countries at war, it is a question of legal access to the european union. so i think these are very concrete proposals which are going to have an impact on the causes of migration flows, which are causing migration flows. because migration flows in themselves are a phenomenon that has always existed, but one thing is voluntary displacement, another is the constraint that comes from war and persecution and we must not be complicit in it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yet another debate, yet another demonstration that europe does not exist, that europe which was built on the wrong currency is dying of immigration. someone would like to import a few million new slaves. in this building, we talk about human rights around the world and we make deals with turkey, to which we are giving ten billion euros. turkey, which denies the genocide of 1.5 million armenians that took place a century ago. turkey militarily occupying a part of a sovereign state from this building. some would like turkey to join europe, to force its history, culture and geography, some would even like the turkish language to be recognised as an official language of the european union, madness after madness. in the meantime, 24 000 illegal immigrants landed in italy in the first months of the year, twice as many as last year, and less than 5% of them were refugees. so we're happy to leave you with this europe. if this is the europe you think of, i prefer to think of the 20 million unemployed europeans who are not being looked after.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are focusing on the eu-turkey agreement, for the love of money, but we are talking about something that could have the effect of closing a route, but we know that routes change and i, as an italian, must say that i am very concerned because the italians are at the forefront of this. there are already signs, new directions are opening up that point straight to italy. in albania the police have already identified many boats ready to leave, as have other possible and possible routes from greece and turkey, and then there is the other front, the mediterranean, which is even more worrying. between 15 and 19 march alone, 4 000 refugees were rescued in the mediterranean. there are figures from german intelligence which say that there are 200,000 people on the libyan coast ready to leave for italy, but the high representative speaks of as many as 450,000 people ready to leave libya for italy. there is another concern: in may the period of suspension which has allowed many european countries to reinstate border controls will expire, and if this is extended, the suspension will last for a maximum of two more years and we will have the tragic scenario of a europe that shields itself against southern europe. i would like to make an appeal to you, gentlemen, because if the whole problem of migration is not tackled, then europe will be shipwrecked in the mediterranean.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with turkey has a very dubious legal value and it is incredible that this majority so attentive to human rights should entrust a country like turkey with the task of carrying out a mass deportation of refugee populations. it is a costly and useless operation which is a bluff, the turks themselves have in fact declared that they will not become the centre of reception for refugees in europe, it will only serve to make germany pay a heavy price for defending its borders and in fact it is germany which is defending this agreement through its representatives in these banks. it is easy to foresee the criteria that will govern the management of the turkish brand, the erdogan brand of refugees, while three hundred, some say four hundred thousand refugees threaten to invade italy and it is no accident that turkey is cautiously closing the borders. we are being blackmailed by a jerk like erdogan, it's been a few days and already turkey is threatening to suspend the deal and amnesty protests erdogan, who is an islamist extremist, wants to invade europe: i will never, never, never! never, the invasion of europe by the turks, by the muslims: i will never, never, never!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is a necessary one, because we were upset by the refusal of some countries to do their part, and it is therefore very ambiguous and insidious. we therefore call for double monitoring, for monitoring of all implementation and management in both greece and turkey. europe must be responsible, we cannot wash our hands of this, it is up to greece, it is up to turkey, it is up to us. on 8 march we dedicated it to women refugees. speaking of children, i wonder what's up with all the commitments? we are hearing from the camps about exploitation and degradation, and i think that this is unacceptable and that we have a clear european responsibility, moral rather than political and institutional. we are talking, and we want to see the possibility of european-managed hot spots because i think that we alone, directly responsible, could really monitor the respect of human rights. and finally, one fault closes and others open. it has been pointed out here that italy already collects a thousand people at sea on certain days. i ask that italy and malta too start working now in solidarity and cooperation.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i would like to express my thanks for your meaningful contributions, many of which are very much in line with the commission’s thinking and objectives. let me clarify some points. our relationship with turkey is not about antagonism in terms of power dynamics. it is about an agreement to address an issue in a joint way. both europe and turkey are under great pressure. we are confronted with the same challenges and an unprecedented situation. cooperation is necessary. it is true that turkey considers this cooperation to be a catalyst to reenergise our relations as well as its european perspective. this new chapter in eu-turkey relations is not interpreted as a concession on our basic principles and values of european democracy. on the contrary, it is an opportunity for turkey to come closer to european standards on all issues: democratic values, rule of law, freedom of expression, respect for minority rights, and resolution of the cyprus issue. it is in europe’s interest to have a democratic and stable turkey as a neighbour, and it is in the interest of turkey to have the european union as a stable supporter and partner. the refugee crisis brought us closer in a spirit of mutual understanding. it needs to be proved whether we mean what we say and what we agree. we are monitoring to ensure that every single aspect of this agreement happens in full accordance with european union and international law. i do not have any doubt about it, and we persist on that. for example, the turkish authorities have passed legislation to ensure protection for syrians. we told them very explicitly that guarantees are needed for all those who are in need of protection, whether they are syrians or non-syrians. on visa liberalisation, 35 out of the 72 requirements are fulfilled, but the commission has been crystal clear: we can only make a proposal to lift visa requirements if all benchmarks are met. turkey knows this, and it is making efforts to further accelerate the fulfilment of the benchmarks so that we can lift the visa requirements by june 2016. the deal has only started being implemented, with just over 300 people who had not applied for asylum being returned and 74 syrians resettled directly from turkey so far. this is only the start. next week the commission will formally report on the state of play of implementation of all elements of this agreement. let me say this: this agreement is an important step for a long-term renewed relationship. a common goal is also to come closer to one another when it comes to values, as i stressed at the beginning of my remarks. in the meantime, the commission is heavily involved in the situation on the ground in greece. we are doing everything to support greece in expanding reception capacities and in making sure that vulnerable applicants, such as women and children, are being treated appropriately. our people are there, deployed all around the greek islands, as well as on the greek mainland, providing our help to the greek government and the greek authorities. member states need to continue relocating massively from greece, and i fully agree with what was said in this house today, that all member states must take their share of their responsibilities. of the more than 50 000 people stuck in greece, at least 70% are eligible for relocation. this is important for those who were stranded in idomeni and pireus before 20 march. let us also look at other routes. the arrivals from libya to italy show that as long as there is instability, as long as there are smugglers taking advantage of this situation, people will continue to migrate. it is as simple as that. so we have to keep working on the bigger picture. this means continuing our political efforts to bring back stability to syria and libya. this also means turning into reality our proposal for a european border and coast guard. we are very happy that this house has presented a draft report and has a timetable which reflects our commitments. we have no time to lose here – indeed, summer is already here. this also means enhancing legal pathways so that people do not have to resort to irregular arrangements. i would like to thank those members of this house who have raised this and who support our view. stepping up our efforts on resettlement is an essential part of the solution, primarily from turkey now but also from lebanon and jordan, which are hosting hundreds and thousands of refugees. i have said this before: if we genuinely want to close the irregular backdoor, we have to open a safe and legal window. fortress europe is neither desirable nor feasible, simply because as long as people have reasons to flee, they will continue to do so, and they will continue to try to come to europe. and not only is it our moral and legal responsibility to offer a safe haven for those in need, we also need to make our policies and our approach future-proof. resettlement is the way forward to ensure orderly, legal and controlled admission from third countries for those who are in need of protection. some of you also mentioned dublin. we do not want a cosmetic reform. the president was very clear today on that. we need to reform and improve dublin to ensure that solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility is engrained in the new system, because the current one is simply not sustainable. we all know that there is no easy solution to the challenge we face, but one thing is sure: we have to work together and not against each other. this is valid for the european union institutions, the member states and also our relations with our neighbours.
president of the european council.– madam president, there are several aspects of our debate to which i would like to refer. firstly, regarding relocation: this is – and will be – one of the key elements of the european solution to the crisis. in this aspect, of course, we need solidarity. i have no doubt about that. but we would be making a mistake if it became the main tool of our policy, because it would be a simple incentive for further, even greater, migration flows, something like an encouragement for possible new migrants. this is why i think we have to be very cautious, especially when it comes to communication with the outside world. in the debate, mr kamall and mr verhofstadt referred to statistics on irregular migration in the context of the mediterranean route. i am always very cautious when it comes to statistics. i have some reason to be cautious, but today it is indeed worth considering them. first, concerning the balkan route, it is true that 150 000 irregular migrants have arrived in europe since the beginning of this year, but the numbers are falling, month after month, from close to 70 000 in january, to 50 000 in february, to 30 000 in march, and to about 1 000 in april. just imagine if only in the month of january, in the middle of winter, there were 70 000 migrants, how many of them would have come in april if we had not taken action? second, it is also true that since the start of this year, 20 000 irregular migrants have come to europe via the central mediterranean route and that the numbers are growing. but no syrians are among them. they are nationals of africa and countries such as nigeria, somalia, gambia, the republic of guinea and ivory coast. what does this mean in fact? if we had not closed the western balkans route, we would now have three or five times more migrants – those from africa coming to us through libya, as well as those who have now been stopped at the border or discouraged from crossing the border. many have said today that our priority should be to set up the european coast guard. i am in favour, even if this coast guard will not be operational this year. that is obviously impossible. but we must ask ourselves the question: what exactly should the eu coast guard do? let all through who want to enter europe, or stop and control them? i think it is obvious – not only for me – that they should stop and control them, which means in fact the same very controversial action that we are applying right now. in the first place we must expect national coastguards to enforce our law on european borders. the european coastguards should support those who need help but cannot replace them.
in writing. the joint action plan with turkey puts migrants out of the eu, but migration at its centre. in a geopolitical paradox, the agreement provides that they, although they are eager to reach europe and die in the attempt, remain only spectators, externalized by those who, out of necessity, fear and impotence, cannot find a fair sharing of responsibility to welcome them. migrants must be the focus of our attention as europeans more than ever because they have been allocated a place in a country, turkey, where the highest standards of democracy, the rule of law, respect for fundamental freedoms and freedom of expression are still in the making, if not in the embryonic stage. we must have remorse for everything we didn't accomplish. the agreement is certainly a good step towards a solution, but it is also clear that the solution must lead to a 'more humble and credible' europe. the fading version of our human rights that we have managed to secure for the migrant does not deprive him and his family, in any case, of specific initiatives of additional funding, essential infrastructure and social cohesion.
in writing. assuming that as many as 1.83 million people tried to reach the eu's borders in 2015 compared to "only" 282,000 in 2014, we can see how the refugee emergency is growing exponentially. the solution can only be found through the cooperation and solidarity of all the member states of the union and the third countries directly involved. i therefore welcome the agreement reached by the eu with turkey and hope that it can be implemented in a concrete way and in a timely manner. to effectively resolve the humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean we must resolve the geopolitical issues that are at the root of it: war, poverty, and corruption. the european union has also been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. saving lives must be the top priority, in the name of the dignity of every human being and the principle of solidarity which must inspire our action as europeans.
in writing. the agreement reached on 18 march between the european union and turkey is the result of national self-interest and populist policies by some member states; the events of the past few days on the brenner border between italy and austria are a sad and unacceptable example of this. i am not sure that this agreement is perfect, but it does have the merit of helping two member states of the union, greece and bulgaria, which were in an emergency situation. i hope that this is only the first part of a much broader european strategy for managing migration flows. a series of concrete measures will have to be taken as soon as possible: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the mediterranean, such as the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a european health insurance scheme, the introduction of a new health insurance scheme, the introduction of a new health insurance scheme, the new health insurance scheme, the new health insurance scheme, etc. the ability and political will to find effective solutions, shared at european level and based on respect for the principle of solidarity, will determine not only the future of the union but also the fate of the men, women and children who flee war every day and risk their lives to reach our continent.
president of the portuguese republic. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, mr president, for the honour you have bestowed on me by inviting me to the house of democracy, one month after i took office as president of the portuguese republic. i thank you, mr president martin schulz, for allowing me to address the legitimate representative of the european people, whom i now wish to confirm. house of democracy because no other european institution of this scale is based on the principles of freedom, security, humanism and citizen participation which this house and each of its members represents and guarantees. the fact that we are here today is a sign of the importance that european integration has assumed in the birth and affirmation of portuguese democracy. but it's also a sign of a personal commitment, born of a very ancient design. i belong to a generation of portuguese people for whom europe and integration into it was a dream, inseparable from democracy, decolonisation, economic development and social justice. the conversion of the dictatorship into democracy involved the end of the empire, but not least the affirmation of portugal's belonging to europe, its geographical, historical and cultural cradle. it is more clearly, since the 1960s, the destination of their main emigration and the origin and destination of their trade. we believed in europe itself, in what it represented as an example of peace, solidarity, growth, social equity, cultural life. but we still saw it as an incentive to build a new portugal. i therefore recall with nostalgia the first university delegation to the communities, which i was a member of at the most complex period of the revolution; or the european influence in my activity as a constituent member of parliament in my early twenties between 1975 and 1976. and that is why i was moved by the application for membership in 1977, by the long negotiations until 1985, by the laborious construction of the single currency, which, as leader of the opposition, led me to make three state budgets viable for a minority government, thus contributing to portugal's entry into the euro zone. and let me tell you how happy and proud i was to see a portuguese - josé manuel durão barroso - elected president of the european commission; and how particularly proud and committed i am to the work of the portuguese members - and indeed all the portuguese members - in this house. old and strong convictions never change. i remain convinced of the irreplaceable role of the european union in europe and in the world. and since there has been democracy, portugal has remained faithful to this constant of its national strategy, with all its presidents and all its governments. (applause) portugal is celebrating 40 years of the constitution this year, the founding charter of freedom and democracy. the european communities have played a key role in consolidating portuguese democracy. the european union's contribution to the development of my country and to the improvement of the quality of life of its people has been and remains equally fundamental. portugal has successfully used the structural funds from europe, modernised the productive fabric, trained the workforce and built essential infrastructure. but in order to adapt to european rules, portugal was obliged to take in 12 years the steps that stronger economies had taken in more than 40 and, in the meantime, decolonized in two years and welcomed and integrated, in a population of nine million, 700 000 portuguese-speaking nationals and africans, saw military power remain until 1982, went from a partially colonial, rural and closed economy to a european, globalized, open, progressively reprivatised economy, with more weight of services and new industries. the price of these changes in a short time was immense and even the use of community funds, a sign of european understanding and support for portugal, was not enough for the necessary consolidation. the global and european crises of 2008 and 2009 added to the structural problems still to be solved, and for three and a half years an adjustment programme, involving the european commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund, tested the historical capacity of the portuguese to withstand crises and personal sacrifices so that the internal and external financial balances could be restored. as president of the portuguese republic, i am proud to stand before this house today and to be able to say that europe has not failed to help portugal and portugal has honoured its commitments by coming clean out of the adjustment programme. (applause) i would like to thank today portugal wants to continue to guarantee financial balances, control the deficit, control the public debt and, at the same time, begin to compensate social sectors that have been sacrificed more in the recent past, believing that, in addition to private investment and exports, household consumption can also help create growth and employment. it is a path which pursues the same macroeconomic and financial objectives, but which is partly different from the previous one, led by a government which is also pro-european, which respects the commitments it has made internationally, and which is supported in parliament not only by one of the two main european political families but also by parties from another important european family, which until now had been outside the area of constitutional executive power in portugal. although my roots are in a different area of doctrine from that of the current parliamentary majority, as the president of all portuguese, i feel that it is essential to pacify, de-dramatize, heal wounds, rebuild consensus. my message is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen: stability, the refusal to add political crises to economic and social questions, the search for broad convergence, the strengthening of the financial system - a recent step may be a good sign - the capacity to carry out administrative, judicial, human skills, business capital and social cohesion reforms and the sincere wish that the demanding path of reconciling financial rigor with social concerns, which is also based on the growing dynamism of the internal market, will be a complete success. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am an incorrigible europeanist. the europe i dreamed of and the europe of which the overwhelming majority of portuguese people dream, faces new challenges, far more complicated than those it has faced in the past. they are the ones who tell us that this is no time to waver or to give in. reflection on the future of the union must give new life to a model that has enabled europe to pass through a period of peace and prosperity previously unknown in its thousand-year history. we must continue to reject xenophobic attitudes, to combat exaggerated nationalism, to reject sterile chauvinism, to reject the isolationism of the past. it is already a huge and enviable legacy that needs to be extended and prolonged. the debate on european union, in the light of the new challenges, will only be fruitful if it is based on a constant dialogue with the citizens of europe, respecting their legitimate aspirations to live in an area of security, freedom and justice, growth, employment, prosperity and solidarity. it is therefore essential that european and national leaders are attentive to these aspirations, looking to the will expressed in the terms of our democratic societies, which requires greater european pedagogy and greater closeness to the citizens. the europe i dream of wants to remain united and united, internally and externally, and is attentive to possible arrivals, hoping that there will be no departures. we are always looking for joint solutions to the social effects of wars in neighbouring areas, particularly in the case of refugees, in which case portugal has been an example. in proportion to its population, it is perhaps the main european country or countries to show willingness to welcome and include refugees in portuguese society. this situation requires that the fundamental issues are not forgotten, under the pretext of mere short-term agreements, which we all hope will not prove questionable or insufficient. the europe of my dreams, which has so often triumphed over barbarism and totalitarianism, will also be able to overcome the threats of religious and political fanaticism and terrorism. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. and here i express once again my solidarity with france and belgium. the europe of which it dreams is to have a global political weight corresponding to its commercial weight, for which it is important that its voice be heard more and more and continue to effectively lead universal causes, such as, among others, financial transparency, which does not compromise with the discrediting of democratic systems, institutions and actors, and intergenerational environmental justice. the europe we dream of wants to see politics and law keep pace with scientific, technical, economic, social and cultural reality. a europe which recovers the people, the electorate, the young, those who have been forgotten at the end of their professional careers, for a cause which fights against pessimism and militant scepticism. the europe i dream of in portugal and throughout this union would be an immense legion of dreamers sharing the same dream: a europe with a project that would bring freedom, justice, democracy, solidarity, transparency and popular roots. the europe i dream of has portugal at the forefront of this fight and it is and must be optimistic. otherwise, it is no longer europe. otherwise, it ceases to be a symbol of the future. the europe that i dream of keeps in its memory what portugal in the strength of its simplicity brought to and from other continents, cultures and civilizations, and that enriches us so much. the portugal that i have brought with me today crossed seas and faraway lands but never forgot that it belongs to the lands of homer, shakespeare, goethe, proust, cervantes, dante, joyce, strindberg, kundera, kafka, szymborska and pessoa, and many, many others. we are europeans; we will always be europeans. thank you very much. (applause from the left)
thank you mr vajgl.
on 10 march, the president imposed a sanction on mr bay for voting with mr le pen's ballot. on monday 11 april the bureau dealt with mr bay's appeal and unanimously confirmed president schulz's decision to impose on mr bay the penalty of forfeiture of his residence allowance for a period of five days.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to humbly remind the house that a country is free to join the european union, no one can force it, its citizens choose it, but when it joins the european union it is obliged to respect the rules and decisions of the european union. so no interference, but a legitimate and proper interest on the part of a european institution in what happens within its own family, because poland is part of our family and we are interested in the fate of polish citizens. this resolution is nothing but the follow-up to the outcome of the venice convention, which has spoken clearly and we ask that it be respected by the polish authorities.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to balance markets against the imbalances caused by increased international trade. the negrescu report concerns the volvo group truck in sweden, and aims to re-employ 500 workers affected by the crisis in the truck industry. in the absence of viable alternatives, we believe that the egf can support the local swedish economy. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for sweden following the redundancies of 647 workers at volvo truck operations, emea, and four other suppliers and downstream manufacturers in the norrland region in the north. the establishment of the truck industry in asia, particularly in china and india, has led to a profound change in the global market, forcing european producers to intervene on costs in order to improve international competitiveness. the measures taken by the five swedish companies have, however, led to the redundancy of some workers who must be supported by appropriate social protection measures. the mobilisation of the egf is an important opportunity to support workers in finding a new job and it helps to strengthen the social dimension of europe, which is why i supported the negrescu report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of almost eur 1.8 million from the egf to help 500 swedish workers and 5 companies in the car, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector. the globalisation adjustment fund is a very important tool to support citizens in this time of crisis, but the eu should focus on addressing the failures of the internal market as a whole, rather than just looking after its victims.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is the union's duty to support and help those workers, such as those at the volvo trucks plant in umeå, who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and outsourcing practices.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of new economic and financial crises of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market by updating their training and providing them with economic support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance to the workers of volvo trucks who have suffered serious injury as a result of these events.
in writing. ‒ eur 1 793 710 for 500 redundancies in five enterprises in the sector of 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers'. the sector is struggling with asian competition and the difficulties of adaptation, which are forcing it to increase efficiency and reduce costs. support the workers and vote for it!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of some 500 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation by volvo group truck operation emea, a company in north norrland which manufactures cars and trailers. the manufacture of commercial vehicles is no longer dominated by european manufacturers due to new asian truck manufacturers. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions. between 2007 and 2015, italy submitted only 15 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund, 3 of which in 2007, only one in 2008, zero between 2009 and 2010, 7 in 2011, 2 in 2012, zero in 2013, one in 2014 and one in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns sweden's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the volvo group trucks in sweden. the request amounts to approximately eur 1 800 000 to help re-employ 500 workers affected by the crisis in the truck industry, in particular volvo trucks and some companies in the industry, which have been heavily affected by asian competition in recent years. in the absence of any viable alternative to help redundant workers, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to direct part of european funds to support a swedish company for the protection of redundant workers. i believe that the union has all the means to support individual countries with their enterprises in this time of great economic difficulty and that is why i have spoken in favour of: i think that, wherever possible, it is necessary not only for policy to respond but also for action to be taken. in this particular case, the report also deals with the protection of workers and as a member of parliament i have had to take their side in defence of those who are victims of this crisis.
in writing. ‒ the demand in question is particularly strong in the truck industry, which has suffered a decline in production in recent years due to asian competition. in this specific area, 22 applications for egf assistance were received, 12 of which were due to the globalisation of trade and 10 to the global financial and economic crisis. while i am in favour of granting egf assistance for the 500 workers laid off by volvo trucks, i agree with the rapporteur in calling on the commission to look carefully at cases where egf funds have been called in for redundancies due to business relocation strategies dictated by the search for low-cost labour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which supports work and workers in firms in difficulty because of asian competition.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to mobilise a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 793 710 in respect of redundancies in the volvo trucks company because i believe it is important to provide support for redundant workers in a region, västerbotten, which is suffering from both the volvo crisis and the crisis of the subsidiary companies that depend on it. volvo trucks, like all companies in the commercial and heavy-duty vehicle sector, is suffering from the effects of the decrease in physical production in europe due to competition from third countries. this represents a decrease of almost 11% in european volumes, compared with a 10% increase in vehicle imports: in fact, the sector already has 22 applications for egf assistance. i therefore believe that the funding of personalised services such as individual planning services, job search and coaching activities, measures for motivation and health, for entrepreneurship and business creation, education and training and job search allowances is going in the right direction and shows citizens the value and effectiveness of eu action.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers who are unfortunately losing their jobs as a result of the changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. the changes are being brought about by the global economic crisis which is persisting within our system, and it is because of this that we must urgently ensure the reintegration into the world of work of all those who are contributing to this state. in this case, the financial aid for training courses and research into new job activities, which i support, will go to volvo's swedish employees.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an indispensable instrument through which the european union can effectively intervene in support of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the proposal aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 500 employees laid off by volvo group trucks, a manufacturer of cars and trailers, and downstream producers in sweden. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution because i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of 500 swedish workers who have been made redundant, together with the measures proposed by the swedish government in favour of these workers, falls within the scope of the fund in question.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the egf in respect of the application egf/2015/009 se/ submitted by sweden for a financial contribution to volvo trucks. unfortunately, the business car industry has suffered serious economic disruption, in particular a sharp decline in its eu market share. due to the difficult economic situation of the automotive manufacturing sector in the eu, with a significant decline in sales of new passenger cars, some car manufacturers and their suppliers have been forced to close plants and undergo restructuring which has resulted in a large number of job losses. i hope that the mobilisation of the egf will enable volvo employees to be reintegrated into the labour market in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the request to mobilise the egf for a problem involving volvo group truck in sweden. the swedish request amounts to approximately eur 1 800 000 to help re-employ 500 workers affected by the crisis in the truck industry, in particular volvo trucks and some companies in the industry, which have been heavily affected by asian competition in recent years in this sector. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. i am generally in favour of mobilising this fund, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, but in the absence of viable alternatives i still believe it should be supported. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to balance markets against the imbalances caused by increased international trade. the novakov report concerns the request for the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. we believe that this should be provided at no additional cost by the european commission, leaving the entirety of the resources of this instrument to support the firms and workers affected by the crisis, and that the report does not indicate with sufficient precision how these funds are being directed. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to cover technical assistance, which was put forward at the initiative of the commission. the novakov report provides for the allocation of eur 380 000 to finance monitoring and information, create a knowledge base and provide advice to member states on the use, continuity and evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. in particular, the funds will be used to finance the collection and monitoring of data on applications received, decisions taken and measures implemented, as well as to provide technical and administrative assistance to the different member states. i am convinced that this mobilisation of the egf will help to create the conditions for the best possible use of the fund itself.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the egf for eur 380 000 for the technical assistance sector, in order to help improve the efficiency of the globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that, in order to ensure greater efficiency of the european globalisation adjustment fund, it develops a technical assistance system that allows the creation of networks and facilitates the exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ as the application in question is relevant to the legal and social aspects of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), technical assistance should be provided to the companies concerned, with a view to a rapid resumption of their productive activities and full protection of the employment and income of workers and their families.
in writing. ‒ eur 380 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission (maximum annual amount: eur 828 060, or 0.5% of the total fund), broken down as follows: eur 20 000 for monitoring and data collection; eur 20 000 for information and eur 100 000 for the creation of a knowledge base/interface; eur 70 000 for administrative and technical support; eur 120 000 to promote networking; the amount of the assessment is eur 50 000. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to ensure that part of the annual budget of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) can be used for egf technical assistance in order to finance preparatory, monitoring, data collection and knowledge base building activities, administrative and technical support and information and communication activities. i would stress the importance of networking and exchanging information on the egf. i therefore support the funding of the egf contact person expert group and the networking seminars on the implementation of the egf. i expect that this exchange of information will contribute to improving the success rate of measures supported by the egf in the member states, in particular as regards the attainment and re-employment rate of beneficiaries. i also think that all initiatives involving increased involvement and consultation of local authorities who manage the day-to-day management of egf support measures should be supported and strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the request for technical assistance from the european commission for the year 2016 to mobilise eur 380 000 from the fund to finance monitoring and information, create a knowledge base/interface and provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the fund. i abstained on this point because i believe that technical assistance should be provided at no additional cost by the european commission, leaving the entirety of the fund's resources to the firms and workers affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to use part of the european funds to improve the whole system of funds and to make it clear to the various member states how to access and benefit from them. these funds are intended to provide technical assistance in the form of financing monitoring and information and providing advice on the use and continuity of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i believe that this investment is very important because, while it is true that the opportunities offered by the european union are many, it is also true that in order to exploit them, it is necessary to know them.
in writing. the proposal under consideration concerns the mobilisation of an amount of eur 380 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. since the egf was set up to support all those workers who are affected by the consequences of changes in international trade, i felt i should vote in favour, proposing to the commission, as the rapporteur did, to include a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the egf support for young people up to the age of 25.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which supports work and workers in firms in difficulty.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fundamental role played by the egf at european level, especially in this period of economic crisis, i am voting in favour of the proposal to grant the european commission eur 380 000 to support the management of the egf. the amount requested will be invested in several areas including: the monitoring and collection of data on applications received and contributions spent; the continuous updating of information on the egf, by optimising the website; technical and administrative support; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the evaluation of the programme.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning the request for technical assistance, on the initiative of the commission, as a reserve to finance the mid-term evaluation of the effectiveness and sustainability of the results achieved with the egf.
in writing. ‒ considering that the proposal under consideration to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund concerns technical assistance, and as such is intended to cover activities such as monitoring, information gathering and technical and administrative support, and that such actions would help to simplify the analysis of applications to mobilise the fund, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ article 11 (1) of the egf regulation provides that a maximum of 0.5% of the annual budget available may be used for technical assistance. the proposal is to mobilise eur 380 000 to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to improve the added value and efficiency of the egf as a support instrument for redundant workers. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to invest additional resources in this area. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on the annual request for technical assistance from the european commission for the year 2016. the novakov report concerns the request for the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. i am generally in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, but in the absence of viable alternatives i still think it should be supported. the question of technical assistance is slightly different, as in my view it should be provided at no extra cost by the european commission, leaving the full resources of this instrument to support the firms and workers affected by the crisis; the novakov report stresses the need for some changes in this area, but without specifying exactly in which direction we should go. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european commission presented the draft amending budget to support the ongoing humanitarian emergency. we believe that emergency support operations are necessary at this time, but there are concerns because this money is being provided by a transfer from the asylum, migration and integration fund. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis has put and continues to put to the test the responses that europe is able to provide, both in terms of humanitarian support and in terms of policies, to address the economic and social difficulties that are developing at its borders and within it. the european commission has decided to create a new eu budget line to rapidly finance aid measures that member states have decided to implement to cope with humanitarian emergencies. i voted in favour of the fernandes report because i believe that this decision of the commission should be strongly supported. since the beginning of the crisis, the european parliament has been mobilizing to demand rapid responses and to initiate a project to amend existing legislation in order to make the union capable of responding to new, profound and sudden changes. the adoption of the amending budget is a further demonstration of this will.
in writing. ‒ the report as a whole is agreeable and balanced. i therefore voted in favour of the approval of the new instrument to strengthen the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the european union provides consistent support for the efforts of those member states which have been involved in the very serious migration crisis which has been affecting the eu in recent months.
in writing. ‒ the clear need to build a real european police office, backed up by a common will to defend and to relate to foreign countries, can only be reiterated wherever possible: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unity, cohesion and solidarity are the fundamental pillars for any successful organisation: it is up to us europeans to return to these practices every day.
in writing. ‒ pbr no 1/2016 is used to finance the new instrument for the provision of emergency support within the union. the first appropriation consists of 100 million in commitments and 80.2 million in payments; the commission forecasts a total need of 300 million for 2016 and 200 million per year for 2017 and 2018. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the aid, who are the beneficiaries of the aid, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the aid. all signs point to floods, earthquakes, fires, and the like. instead, reading the recitals, we find that mass immigration is equated with a "catastrophe", the impact of which on the eu is due to "circumstances occurring in the union's neighbourhood". the silver lining of this masterpiece of ambiguity is that it is not fresh money, but a transfer from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), which corresponds to about 10% of the billion spent on the relocation of 160 000 immigrants in the period 2015-17. i voted in favour of the proposal, considering the small sum and the purpose.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to allow the eu budget to provide emergency aid in the eu territory to respond to the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. the situation of migrants and asylum seekers is worsening, in particular because of the uncoordinated response of european countries which makes such emergency aid all the more necessary and urgent. i would stress the need to show solidarity with the member states facing such an emergency situation on their territory. i believe that a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should be established to enable humanitarian aid to be mobilised in the eu in the future, when circumstances require it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the creation of this new tool, in the hope that it can really be of some use in the management of this emergency which has been going on for many months now. the budget presented provides for 100 million in commitments and 80.2 million in payments for immediate financial needs, so i am very puzzled that they come from the budget line for the asylum, migration and integration fund, which is an absolute priority. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this report, i wanted to allow the eu budget to provide emergency aid in the eu territory to respond to the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. i believe that a shift in resources is essential to respond effectively to the situation of migrants and asylum seekers, which is getting worse and worse and where immediate help is increasingly needed. we must be in solidarity with the member states facing such an emergency situation on their territory and that is precisely why i voted in favour, because i believe that one of the countries which needs effective cooperation in this area is italy. the report also aims to increase the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre at europol, which was another reason for voting in favour. in fact, in the light of the present situation, i think that more resources must be invested, especially when it is clear that the work in this direction is not enough. we need more and europe, in my view, has all the means to make up for these shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 1 for 2016 deals with the new instrument providing emergency assistance within member states to respond to the humanitarian needs caused by the current migration emergency. the humanitarian emergency we are experiencing in these years must include assistance, rescue and protection operations to protect the lives and integrity of people in emergency and post-emergency conditions. eu funding should support emergency support operations, such as the construction of housing or shelters for groups of people concerned. the budget presented provides for 100 million in commitments and 80.2 million in payments for immediate financial needs. i am in favour of the creation of an instrument for the provision of emergency support within the eu, in order to be able to manage the humanitarian emergency in which we have been involved for several years now. i think it is necessary to understand the source of these funds and to ensure that they are not part of the amif (asylum, migration and integration) fund, but are drawn from other budget lines. that is why i am abstaining.
in writing. ‒ the current migration situation and the recent terrorist attacks in brussels require a swift, clear and decisive response from the union, which is why i voted in favour of mr fernandes' report. the sense of responsibility leads us to approve this draft budget amendment to provide first aid to the thousands of migrants who daily press on the eu's borders and to strengthen the staffing levels of the european counter-terrorism centre, in the hope that it will not only be a measure to be taken into account from a quantitative point of view, but that it will represent a qualitative leap forward in the fight against the terrorist threat. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new financial regulation to include the financial instruments for the period 2014-2020 and the financial instruments for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as it provides for the strengthening of the counter-terrorism centre.
in writing. with today's vote we are allowing the eu budget to provide emergency aid in europe to adequately deal with the humanitarian crises caused by the high levels of migration. these events, which have become a constant occurrence, are no longer bearable for the italian or greek states, precisely because of the epochal dimensions of the migratory phenomenon and the resources that europe has so far mobilised have proved insufficient to manage a crisis of this magnitude. the european parliament's proposal to make operational the amendment to the 2016 eu budget, which provides for eur 700 million over 3 years, is part of this. we must activate aid and internal coordination between the states, also with a view to the relocation of migrants, who can no longer be sent back, and we must strengthen the staff of europol's counter-terrorism centre, which is present in the territory with a large number of resources, and which must be guaranteed maximum effectiveness and support. we cannot turn our backs on the other side, all of europe, and not just the border countries, is responsible for what is happening.
in writing. ‒ in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2016: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new instrument for the provision of emergency support within the union. the commission proposal to allow the union budget to provide adequate emergency aid in the eu territory due to the consequences of the current refugee crisis
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in question, as i believe that the influx of migrants and refugees into europe requires a substantial economic and financial commitment to provide humanitarian assistance to these people. i therefore support the proposal that the union budget should be used to respond adequately to the consequences of the refugee crisis in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ the continuing influx of refugees into europe is putting a strain on the reception capacity of the states at the forefront of dealing with the crisis. the european union must intervene to support these countries. it has been repeatedly stated that solidarity is a fundamental principle of the union and that only by acting together as europe can we overcome this situation, guaranteeing human rights and dignity to men, women and children who are forced to risk their lives in desperate journeys to escape war and persecution. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to set up a european instrument to provide aid within the territory of the union and i hope that, in addition to the emergency, more structured and sustainable measures will be provided to deal with a situation which, as we all know, will not be resolved in the short term. i also welcome the commission's commitment not to withdraw funds from the budget for external humanitarian aid. i support the decision to finance this new instrument by reallocating the appropriations from the asylum, migration and integration fund. but at the same time i ask that this funding be offset at a later date to ensure that amif can carry out the work of relocating refugees for which it was set up.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's proposal to allow the union budget to provide emergency aid to respond to the humanitarian consequences of the current refugee crisis. the proposal also provides for an increase in the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre at europol. these new economic resources will enable the union to strengthen the spirit of solidarity and cooperation among its member states in dealing with the impact of the current refugee crisis. in my capacity as a member of the european parliament, i have always fought to ensure that the first-country countries, particularly italy and greece, are not left to manage migration flows on their own. these economic resources are needed to provide a concrete response. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent migration crises faced by the european union have necessitated the adoption of new instruments for the provision of humanitarian assistance and aid within the eu itself, in particular to help border member states to cope with refugee flows. that is why i voted in favour of the report which provides for the allocation of eur 700 million over the next three years to support the implementation of these support instruments. the project also includes the transfer of eur 2 million from the internal security fund to strengthen the training of the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre, which works alongside europol in the fight against terrorism in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the amending budget proposal which provides emergency funding of eur 100 million for refugees within the eu. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 02 02). i regret, however, that the procedure chosen to create this ad hoc instrument does not involve parliament, which has always shown itself to be responsible in swiftly adopting the proposals on the migration crisis. i also agree with the rapporteur that the new emergency mechanism is being created in the absence of a comprehensive and shared strategy to deal with the refugee crisis and to this end i hope that the other institutions and the member states will accept the proposals made by parliament in its report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive approach to immigration.
in writing. ‒ on 10 march, the european commission presented draft amending budget (dab) no 1 for 2016, which concerns in particular the new instrument providing emergency support within the union, i.e. to cover the financing of support operations to respond to the urgent and exceptional humanitarian needs encountered in the member states as a result of the massive influx of third-country nationals (refugees and migrants) into their territories. emergency response may include assistance, rescue and protection operations aimed at saving and protecting lives in disaster or post-emergency situations. this amending budget thus makes available, through reallocation under heading 3 of the mff, 100 million in commitments and 80.2 million in payments to meet the immediate financial need. i am pleased that the commission has made an effort to find these funds within the eu budget without any new increases, but i am very puzzled that these transfers come from the budget line concerning the amif (asylum, migration and integration) fund, which is an absolute priority.
in writing. ‒ appointments to the court of auditors should be reserved for persons of outstanding professionalism and independence from politics. nevertheless, i have found that in these appointments there are candidates coming directly from the political world. moreover, although not provided for by law, gender equality has not been respected. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state of the union, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of mr jereb. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and, following the instructions of my political group (s&d), i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional abilities of this candidate, but i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ appointed as a member of section ii - structural, transport and energy policies on 1 february 2014; he is also rapporteur for the economic, social and territorial cohesion chapter and is responsible for carrying out the audit for the purpose of the sda and the management control in the field of regional policy and the structural funds. he is the member representing section ii at the cead section, and has also been a rapporteur for several management audits. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ following the s&d group's instructions, i voted against. in particular, the evaluation was based on the hearing of the candidate in the cont committee. despite having a good resume, your presentation was not the best. for many of the questions put to him, he was distracted with no small effort. a major limitation was the language, which is crucial for the position for which he is applying: although he indicated a medium/high level of english, he was unable to prove it, so he was unconvincing and far from confident. in the questionnaire, however, it was thorough and lengthy. he has answered all questions fully and honestly, confirming that his current position as vice-president of coars, as well as the position of vice-president of the court of auditors in slovenia, were political appointments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination not so much because of a personal issue with the candidate but for reasons of a different nature. first of all, i regret to see a rather marked gender imbalance: only five of the 28 members are women. where's the gender equality? member states and the council should be the first to give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. moreover, the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment rather than merit. for these reasons i have decided to vote against all the candidates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of samo jereb as a new member of the court of auditors. i would like to congratulate him most sincerely and wish him a good job.
in writing. the council's nomination of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors was considered valid following a thorough analysis of the applicant's credentials and personal background. i therefore vote in favour of his appointment and wish him well in his work.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the committee on budgetary control's assessment of the candidate's qualifications and suitability for the post in question, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a collegiate body composed of 28 members, one from each member state. the latter are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. i welcome the appointment of mr samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors and wish him well in his work, with the hope that he will be able to play his role with the utmost independence and transparency in the general interest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ it has become necessary to appoint five new members of the court of auditors. the procedure laid down in article 286 tfeu provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external audit institutions in their respective states or who possess specific qualifications for that function and who must offer all guarantees of independence. the council, after consulting the european parliament, which is not bound by the treaty, shall adopt the list of members, on a proposal from each member state. the six new candidates have a rather varied curriculum and very different characteristics, which also points to the lack of a certain "gender parity" in the candidates presented. the court of auditors already has a rather large imbalance (of 28 members, 5 are women) and it is believed that the member states and the council should send a strong signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. finally, the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment rather than merit: this has led to a negative vote for all the candidates.
in writing. ‒ appointments to the court of auditors should be reserved for persons of outstanding professionalism and independence from politics. although not provided for by law, gender equality has not been respected and the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment, rather than merit. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state of the union, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of mr kozlovs. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the indications of my political group (s&d), i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional ability of this candidate, but i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report by the committee on budgets calls for the appointment of mr kozlovs (latvia) as a member of the court of auditors to be approved. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ following the s&d group's instructions, i abstained. in particular, the assessment is due to an ongoing administrative procedure involving the applicant. his selection as a member of the lithuanian court of auditors was not by the normal competitive procedure, but by government 'co-optation'. in january, for example, one of the competing candidates launched a procedure calling into question the legitimacy of his appointment and requesting the suspension of his candidacy for the appointment as a member of the european court of auditors. the administrative court subsequently decided to reject this request for suspension, but, as the situation was still uncertain due to the legitimacy of his first appointment, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination not so much because of a personal issue with the candidate, but for reasons of a different nature. first of all, i regret to see a rather marked gender imbalance: only five of the 28 members are women. where's the gender equality? member states and the council should be the first to give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. moreover, the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment rather than merit. for these reasons i have decided to vote against all the candidates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a new member of the court of auditors. i would like to congratulate him most sincerely and wish him a good job.
in writing. the council's nomination of mr mihails kozlov for the court of auditors was considered valid following a thorough analysis of the applicant's credentials and personal background. i therefore vote in favour of your appointment and wish you a good job.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the committee on budgetary control's assessment of the candidate's qualifications and suitability for the post in question, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a collegiate body composed of 28 members, one from each member state. i welcome the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors and wish him well in his work.
in writing. ‒ appointments to the court of auditors should be reserved for persons of outstanding professionalism and independence from politics. unfortunately, there is no real democratic control over the choice of candidate and the appointment appears to be purely 'political'. moreover, although not provided for by law, gender equality has not been respected. for these reasons, my vote was against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state of the union, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion parliament was called upon to express its opinion on the appointment of jan gregor. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the indications of my political group (s&d), i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional capacity of this candidate, but i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report by the committee on budgets calls for the appointment of mr gregor (czech republic) as a member of the court of auditors to be approved. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ following the s&d group's instructions, i voted against. in particular, the evaluation was based on the hearing of the candidate, which took place in the cont committee, in which he proved unconvincing, sometimes evasive. the commission has answered the questions in a way that is too brief, and has not taken into account the weight and value of the parliamentary institution. when asked whether he would withdraw his candidacy if the opinion of parliament on his appointment as a member of the court were unfavourable, he replied: 'i am ready to consider withdrawing my candidacy after having understood the reasons for the opinion of the parliament and after having consulted the czech government', while while holding the position of deputy minister, he claims that he 'does not hold and has never held any political office'.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination not so much because of a personal issue with the candidate, but for reasons of a different nature. first of all, i regret to see a rather marked gender imbalance: only five of the 28 members are women. where's the gender equality? member states and the council should be the first to give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. moreover, the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment rather than merit. for these reasons i have decided to vote against all the candidates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of jan gregor as a new member of the court of auditors. i would like to congratulate him most sincerely and wish him a good job.
in writing. the nomination of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors, proposed by the council, was considered valid after a careful assessment of the candidate's credentials, curriculum vitae and personal experience. i therefore vote in favour of his appointment and wish him well in his work.
in writing. ‒ on the proposal by the rapporteur, igor šoltes, on the appointment of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors, i considered it appropriate, on the basis of the evaluation of the committee on budgetary control, to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors and wish him well in his work, with the hope that he will be able to play his role with the utmost independence and transparency in the general interest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of ladislav balko, former member of the court of auditors, was affected by the poor outcome of the hearing in the cont committee. moreover, although not provided for by law, gender equality has not been respected. for these reasons, my vote was against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state of the union, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion, parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of ladislav balko. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the instructions of my political group, i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional capacity of this candidate, but i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgets gave a negative opinion on the appointment of mr balko (slovakia) as a member of the court of auditors (already a member-at-large). i abstain from voting.
in writing. - i voted for it because i think you're a high profile person. formerly an associate professor of financial and commercial law, he has held several senior public sector roles, building on his extensive experience in the financial sector. in 2010 he was appointed a member of the court of auditors, gaining a wide experience in the fields of 'structural, transport and energy policies' and 'revenue, research and internal policies', a thorough knowledge of the court of auditors' activities. during its term of office parliament, and in particular the cont committee, has had the opportunity on several occasions to confirm its seriousness and competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination not so much because of a personal issue with the candidate but for reasons of a different nature. first of all, i regret to see a rather marked gender imbalance: only five of the 28 members are women. where's the gender equality? member states and the council should be the first to give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. moreover, the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment rather than merit. for these reasons i have decided to vote against all the candidates.
in writing. ‒ according to article 286 tfeu, the members of the court of auditors are elected from among the persons appointed by the external audit institutions in their respective member states. all 28 members of the court of auditors are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the six new candidates have very varied characteristics, which led to a split vote and only three candidates received support. i am voting against the appointment of ladislav balko, because it does not seem to guarantee the political independence required to become a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the committee on budgets gave a negative opinion on the appointment.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the proposal by mr šoltes, in view of the position taken by the committee on budgetary control, i cannot but vote against the appointment of mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a collegiate body composed of 28 members, one from each member state, who are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. i welcome the appointment of mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors and wish him well in his work, with the hope that he will be able to play his role with the utmost independence and transparency in the general interest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ appointments to the court of auditors should be reserved for persons of outstanding professionalism and independence from politics. mr wojciechowsk is currently a member of the european parliament in the ecr group, so it is impossible for him to have the political independence which is sought in a future member of the court. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state of the union, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion, parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of janusz wojciechowski. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the instructions of my political group, i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgets gave a negative opinion on the appointment of mr wojciechowski (poland) as a member of the court of auditors. wojciechowski is currently a member of the european parliament for the ecr group and the governing party in poland, pis. i prefer to approve the nomination proposed by the polish government. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i think he is a very good candidate, given his audit role as president of the higher institute of auditors, his long career as a judge and his previous experience in the european institutions. he was very convincing in his questionnaire responses. his competence and character emerge: previous experience in management and decision-making roles, work in multilingual and multicultural contexts, results achieved. i was particularly struck by the clarity of ideas in identifying how cooperation between the court of auditors, the national audit institutions and the european parliament could be improved.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination not so much because of a personal issue with the candidate but for reasons of a different nature. first of all, i regret to see a rather marked gender imbalance: only five of the 28 members are women. where's the gender equality? member states and the council should be the first to give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. moreover, the system of appointment of members continues to be a system of political appointment rather than merit. for these reasons i have decided to vote against all the candidates.
in writing. ‒following examination of the curriculum vitae and the replies given by mr janusz wojciechowski at the hearing by the committee on budgetary control, and in line with the committee's views, i voted against the nomination in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. i hope that it will be able to play its role with the utmost independence and transparency in the general interest of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this motion was born as a democratic call for the precautionary principle to be respected, which the commission proposal does not actually apply. it was also born in the defence of the public interest which must prevail, which we appeal to for the publication of those studies which monsanto, let us remember, efsa has declared to be fundamental in formulating its negative opinion on the carcinogenicity of glyphosate. we asked for their publication and what did we get? a physical reading room that we don't even know how it's gonna work. what we want is very clear: studies must be totally public. i am not saying that, but article 10 of the regulation on the marketing of plant protection products says so. commissioner andriukaitis still has responsibilities, and he cannot and must not go through this process alone. we voted for a resolution which is absolutely absurd, we cannot allow the authorization of glyphosate to be renewed for another seven years, it is absolutely unconscious of us and of you to have voted for it and to have allowed it to be disrespectful of the health of all citizens.
i also voted against the commission's proposal to extend the use of glyphosate for another 15 years. i am convinced that when there is clear scientific evidence that casts doubt on the health acceptability of this substance, responsible politicians cannot simply prolong the use of this substance for another 15 years. there are clear conclusions from the international agency for research on cancer, which in its march 2015 materials made it clear that glyphosate belongs and belongs in the category of probable human carcinogens. this is why i think that a 15-year extension is a gamble, a gamble with the health of our citizens. i therefore think it is good that the commission has not exceeded that deadline and that parliament has expressed its opinion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as long as there are concerns about the carcinogenicity of the endocrine disruptor glyphosate, the commission should not renew any authorization. the precautionary principle must always prevail in such cases, because the primary objective of the european union is to protect the health of its citizens. the fact that we had to resort to a parliamentary objection shows that something has gone wrong in the decision-making process. glyphosate is classified as a probable carcinogen by the world health organization. the french agency for the environment, food and health (anses) has recently expressed its opinion, pointing out that certain mixtures of glyphosate with other substances may present important health risks, both for citizens and for those working in the agricultural sector. france has, in fact, decided to ban herbicides combining glyphosate and tallow amine (tallow amine) because of uncertainty about possible health risks. the commission's intention is nevertheless to extend the licence. this is an absurd position when the health of citizens is at stake. rather, the commission should submit an independent review of the classification of glyphosate based on all available scientific data on carcinogenicity as well as its possible impacts on the human hormonal system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament had the opportunity to express a strong and clear political position against the renewal of the authorization of glyphosate, a herbicide which the iarc has defined as a probable carcinogen. we are well aware that the european commission, as an executive body, has full discretion to decide to adopt acts and measures autonomously. it was important, however, that this house should express its views, and that is a great pity. the five star movement was among the strongest supporters of the motion to object to this act and, in the light of the amendments tabled and the result obtained in the end, we were forced to vote against. in fact, we have turned an objection motion into a motion in support of a renewal for another seven years, simply, the health of citizens and the environment cannot be traded, but must come before business opportunities for companies.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a systemic herbicide used mainly in agriculture, forestry and horticulture. it is a non-selective herbicide which kills grass vegetation and which, according to studies published by the international agency for research on cancer, is likely to be carcinogenic to humans. the data, confirmed by tests on humans, animals and based on mechanistic data, are still contested by the efsa opinion. the european food safety authority denies the carcinogenicity of glyphosate, while refusing to publish the studies in its possession. for these reasons i voted against the resulting text, which in effect renews the use of glyphosate for another seven years.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a particular type of non-selective herbicide that is capable of causing the death of all herbaceous vegetation on which it is applied. scientific studies have shown that it also acts on other types of organisms such as algae, fungi and bacteria, on which it acts, as in plants, by interfering with the shikimate pathway. this is the kind of action that, in the case of bacteria, causes changes in the response to antibiotics. according to the international agency for research on cancer, glyphosate is a probable human carcinogen, although efsa's conclusions, based on unpublished studies, are the opposite. the existence of a number of doubts as to the carcinogenic potential of glyphosate is also linked to concerns about its endocrine interference and the consequences it appears to have on the metabolic pathways of vertebrates, in particular with regard to hepato-renal damage found in several studies. for all these reasons, and because i believe that the commission's implementing regulation does not ensure high standards of protection of health and the environment, i have decided to vote in favour of the objection tabled in parliament today.
in writing. ‒ because of its carcinogenic potential for human health, i did not support this text which moves in the direction of granting the renewal of the authorizations for the application of 'glyphosate' in europe. the health of our citizens must always be the first priority and i believe that it would only be truly protected if the use of this substance were immediately banned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing regulation does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, does not apply the precautionary principle and exceeds the implementing powers laid down in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009.
in writing. i said no to the use of glyphosate in agriculture, the substance used to produce almost all pesticides. i have rejected the european commission's proposal to renew the authorization of glyphosate for the next 15 years on the basis of the precautionary principle, since there is no reliable data on its potential carcinogenic effects. with my italian colleagues in the group we also opposed the amendments of the european people's party which proposed authorization for a shorter period of time. parliament has expressed its opinion and sent a clear message to the european commission and the member states, which will be called upon to discuss and decide again in the coming weeks.
in writing. ‒ efsa found that glyphosate (the main ingredient in monsanto's roundup herbicide) is unlikely to be carcinogenic or genotoxic (damaging dna), to the enthusiastic applause of monsanto itself. however, the who's international agency for research on cancer (iarc) has found glyphosate to be "probably" carcinogenic to humans (group 2a). the review of the risk assessment of the active substance glyphosate by efsa is limited to glyphosate itself; while the iarc reviewed glyphosate together with its formulated products, which are more relevant in the assessment of risks to human health and biodiversity. the commission decision which is the subject of this objection therefore appears to be a unilateral act which does not take into account the risks and the intergovernmental consensus.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is the most widely produced systemic herbicide worldwide; it is a non-selective herbicide that kills all herbaceous vegetation and is used in 76% of cases in the agricultural sector but also in forestry, urban and horticultural applications. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as 'probably carcinogenic to humans' based on 'limited evidence' of carcinogenic effects in humans (derived from actual and actual exposure cases), 'sufficient evidence' of cancers in laboratory animals (from studies on 'pure' glyphosate), and 'strong evidence' of mechanistic data on the carcinogenicity (toxicity and oxidative stress) of 'pure' glyphosate and glyphosate-containing formulations. however, the european food safety authority has completed a peer review of glyphosate and concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a cancer threat to humans and has refused to make the studies public. i therefore voted against the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ there has been a lot of discussion in parliament these days about the use of glyphosate and the health implications that this substance can have, and with this vote i wanted to clarify my position on this. it is clear that glyphosate is now the most widely used herbicide in the world, and its use has increased its need for agricultural production. recent studies have attempted to clarify the implications of glyphosate for human health, in particular the european food safety authority (efsa) has concluded that 'glyphosate is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard to humans'. my intention in voting was to seek a balanced compromise which takes account of scientific uncertainty and the fact that there are no viable alternatives at present. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal because i fully agree with the proposal to raise new safety standards which will make the monitoring of glyphosate residues in food more stringent, because i believe that, especially when it comes to health, prevention can never be too much.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the objection to the renewal of the approval of glyphosate. the primary objective of the european union must continue to be the protection of the health of its citizens. the world health organization considers glyphosate to be "probably carcinogenic". it is an indication that we cannot ignore and that we cannot ignore. we have only achieved a partial positive result today, but we must re-launch this positive aspect and send the commission a clear message that it is not possible, as was attempted, to renew the authorization of a dangerous product without further analysis for 15 years.
in writing. ‒ i am against this report because it does not take into account the risks of glyphosate and intergovernmental opinions.
in writing. ‒ given the considerable uncertainty surrounding the safety of glyphosate, the divergent views of the european food safety authority and the world health organisation's agency for research on melanoma, and the reluctance of the european food safety authority to disclose the studies on which its opinion is based, i welcome the hope that the european commission will not proceed with the renewal of the marketing of this substance for a maximum of 15 years until it is ruled out that it may be harmful to human health. the massive use of this type of herbicide in agricultural production and in our city parks would, if it were proved harmful, pose a serious threat to the health of european citizens. in addition, in view of the restrictive and precautionary measures taken by some member states and the opposition of some of them in the council of the european union, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the european commission postpone the decision on the extension of the marketing authorization for glyphosate and that, in the meantime, it carries out more in-depth studies on the effects of the substance on the environment and health. finally, in order to ensure maximum institutional credibility, i would like to see the efsi refrain from any further reservations about the publication of its studies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's draft implementing regulation renewing the approval of glyphosate, as some evidence has shown that, despite an increase in its use in recent years, this substance could pose a health hazard to people living in the vicinity of places where glyphosate is used. furthermore, it is not possible to say with certainty that glyphosate residues do not pose a danger to human health, as well as to animals and the environment. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the epp, together with a large majority in parliament, has reached an important compromise between the demands of agricultural production and those of health and environmental protection. the vote asked the commission to submit a new proposal for the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate, which would take account of some fundamental changes. the ppe did not oppose this authorization on ideological grounds, but on the contrary, it distinguished itself by rejecting those amendments which proposed an absolute ban on the use of this substance for agricultural and professional use, voting in favour of an authorization reduced from 15 to 7 years, revocable and monitored. parliament called on the commission to review the classification of glyphosate on the basis of independent scientific studies and to disclose fully the scientific data used in the evaluation. by voting on this report on a point on which it is difficult for the member states to reach agreement, parliament is making its strength and representative weight felt, indicating a political line for the commission's action and offering the european council a position to which it can refer.
in writing. - i voted no to this resolution, which i consider shamefully hypocritical. most of the premises are in fact fully shared: point out that the weedkiller glyphosate is a pervasive chemical (it is present in the food chain and in our bodies), which has been declared "probably carcinogenic to humans" by the iarc but which has been deemed safe by efsa based on information contained in studies that are not made public because the producers of glyphosate believe that this would harm their commercial interests. these premises and the precautionary principle, which is also repeatedly invoked in the resolution, have only one possible logical consequence: the request to the european commission not to renew the authorisation for glyphosate. the resolution, however, is unreasonable and explicitly calls for the authorization to be renewed. it is simply outrageous. hence my no. i hope, however, that the european commission will give effect to two minor requests contained in the resolution: the independent review of all scientific literature on the toxicity of glyphosate (meaning: review of the efsa assessment) and the publication of the secret studies used by efsa to declare glyphosate safe.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which, thanks to a last-minute amendment by the ppe group, was transformed into a call to renew the authorisation for glyphosate for another 7 years, although the original text submitted for voting contained an unconditional objection to the renewal of the licence, for which the movement fought hard. glyphosate is currently the most widely used herbicide in the world, but it has been classified as "probably carcinogenic to humans" by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), based on studies that are certainly more reliable than those conducted by the european food safety authority, which, using data provided by the same companies that produce glyphosate, came to the opposite conclusion that the substance is "probably non-carcinogenic". the data, however, has not been published in order to "not harm the commercial interests" of these large companies. european legislation and the precautionary principle allow the eu to block the use of a substance that is potentially dangerous to human health and the environment, even in the presence of the slightest scientific doubt. however, in order not to damage the commercial interests of multinational companies and lobbies, the majority of parliament has preferred to accept such a serious risk to man and the environment. this is unfortunately what matters to the health of citizens and the environment in europe.
in writing. i voted against the resolution by which parliament calls on the european commission to renew for another seven years the authorisation of the use in agriculture of glyphosate, the active ingredient of a herbicide produced by the multinational monsanto. the commission's intention was to renew the authorization of glyphosate for a full 15 years and parliament's motion was originally designed to ask for the precautionary principle to be applied and to refuse the renewal altogether. the final text of the resolution as it came out would have allowed the european commission to reach a committee (where the fate of glyphosate is actually decided together with the member states) proposing 7 years, with the support of parliament. a scandalous concession which we of the five star movement could only forcefully reject. as a possible carcinogen, glyphosate is a real danger to humans. the heinrich böll foundation recently published a study with shocking results showing that glyphosate residues were detected in the urine of 99.6% of the more than 2 000 people monitored. the most significant values were found in children and adolescents. mine was a resounding no to glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ the report makes observations on the need for collective solidarity between member states on security issues and calls for appropriate use of the available instruments already in the treaties. however, the report also contains a number of negative aspects, including the reference to the need for strengthening cooperation between the eu and nato and the approval of the decision committing member states to spend at least 2% of their gdp on military resources. another negative aspect is the complete lack of concern for those member states which are reluctant to ensure a fair distribution of asylum seekers across the eu. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has been confronted with an extremely complex international scenario, characterised by a succession of perennial crises. economic difficulties, migration, instability and the development of conflicts on its borders result in a chronic lack of common solutions adapted to the challenges of our time. the kalniete report, which i supported with my vote today, effectively illustrates the scale of these threats and offers a range of practical solutions to bring the eu to the centre of the global stage. the main objective to be achieved is that of common defence. the full implementation of article 42 (7) teu must be the starting point for developing and defining a common defence policy framework leading to the achievement of a european defence union. permanent multinational military units, a joint defence force and the establishment of a permanent eu military headquarters are key elements of a plan to improve military crisis management capability. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ the report is totally biased and decidedly contrary to my political line. the prospect of a european military union does not convince me at all, and i am even less convinced that the call for strengthening the schengen system is appropriate, given the current situation in which each member state decides for itself, given the eu's inability to find a solution to the continuous flows of migrants. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ if we are to safeguard european values and the european social model, we must promote the european union as an increasingly central player in the global international relations game. the report voted on today shows the political will of the european parliament to encourage community action in this area by supporting the achievement of the strategic objectives through a more coherent and pragmatic approach both internally and externally. increasing european autonomy and effectiveness in the field of foreign policy is an essential part of our ability to deal with the common threats to our security today. european action must therefore be implemented promptly and in a coordinated manner, especially in order to try to reduce the instability of neighbouring regions. we must therefore redouble our efforts to increase synergy and information sharing between member states, so that we can respond to the ever-changing challenges of the international environment through genuine european instruments. i therefore welcome the adoption of the report, convinced that greater integration in the field of foreign policy is also essential for the future of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu must ensure its internal and external resilience and its capacity to anticipate, prevent and resolve foreseeable challenges and threats, as well as its readiness to act quickly in the event of unforeseeable crises, as well as its capacity to recover from various types of attacks, as well as to safeguard the security of energy and raw materials supplies.
in writing. ‒ we europeans find ourselves in a more fragile and divided world today than we did 20 years ago: the problems of the international scene are approaching our doors, they are known to us and the answers they require are more pressing. the shortsightedness of many national governments is astonishing, however, as they persist in spending their energies on petty internal disputes rather than investing them in the federal progress that the globalized world today demands of europe. a europe that is still strong and has soft power throughout the world, but which is in danger of losing it if it does not return to strong international leadership and if it does not abide by its own values. the soft power that europe has in the world is that it is the home of welfare and rights, of peace and freedom, of art and technological development: without these elements, it is weak and its influence melts like snow in the sun. it is the responsibility of each of us in this parliament to do everything possible to overcome national selfishness and to safeguard the security and well-being of our citizens in a europe that we want to be more cohesive, more solidary and more in tune with its role in the world.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, the eu strategy should be based on: the identification and prioritisation of addressing threats and challenges; (b) the definition of the responses to be adopted in relation to them; (c) the determination of the resources to be allocated to them. the report stresses that the borders of each member state are the borders of the union and as such must be defended, but calls for the strengthening of the schengen system, the european border and coast guard and frontex. it also considers it of paramount importance to strengthen eu-nato cooperation. the transition to multinational military units, joint defence forces and the definition of a framework for a common defence policy leading ultimately to a european defence union must be considered. the eu must deliver on its commitments to enlargement and integration, based on policies designed to stimulate economic growth and an inclusive society. the current refugee crisis requires a holistic european approach and urgent and concerted action, using both external and internal instruments; calls for a long-term strategy and sustainable management of asylum, migration and readmission policies based on common principles and solidarity. i strongly oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the european parliament's recommendations to the high representative on the elaboration of the new eu comprehensive strategy on the common foreign and security policy. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs i have tabled a number of amendments to overcome the criticisms of the draft report. the latter, in fact, had from the outset many controversial aspects, such as the approval of the decision requiring member states to spend 2% of their annual gdp on defence expenditure and the complete absence of any criticism of member states still reluctant to make a fair allocation of asylum seekers. the text of the report is also rather weak on the question of the creation of a genuine european intelligence service. i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the amendments which i have proposed are not taken into account in the final drafting of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives an account of the relationship between the european union and the current global context as it sets out important objectives with which i could not agree more. i am in favour of such aims as greater security for our citizens and the safeguarding of our values and models of society, or even the attempt to stabilise the relationship of europe itself with its member states and individual regions with the aim of strengthening the existing coalition. i am in favour of this report in essence because it moves towards a more interconnected european union at home and in foreign policy as a concrete response to the global changes to which we are constantly exposed.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to clarify the european parliament's position on the overall strategy of the european union on foreign and security policy. the report sets out the eu's objectives on these issues. the eu now faces internal and external threats (including climate change, large migration flows and international terrorism) that are very different from those identified in the 2003 security strategy. i think that the desire to seek greater solidarity between member states on security issues is fully understandable, as is parliament's call for effective use of the many international instruments available for managing the migration crisis and the attention paid to sustainable development and the protection of human rights. nevertheless, several critical aspects emerge from the report, including the decision to reserve 2% of the gdp of the member states for military resources. the report also fails to provide adequate and sufficient information on the fair distribution of asylum seekers in the various eu countries and on the creation of european intelligence. i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ this resolution re-emphasises the importance of a european strategy, in line with its core values, to respond to common threats to the eu and its member states. issues such as internal and external security, the refugee crisis, regional conflicts, arms exports and climate change affect all member states and their citizens. they therefore require a unified, concrete and proactive response at european level. my vote in favour expresses my support for a european strategy for the effective management of these issues. in particular, i agree that the eu should contribute more to stability, security and respect for human rights in neighbouring countries and in the southern neighbourhood, and at the same time involve national parliaments, regional actors and civil society in the process of implementing the strategy.
in writing. ‒ today, the european union is surrounded by an arc of instability stretching from eastern europe to north africa and the middle east: the policies of migration and the threat of terrorism from the jihadist "isis" are two clear examples. as the kalniete report points out, the eu is divided internally and unable to react because of different strategic visions among member states which have so far prevented coordination of foreign and defence policy. as the resolution recalls, one of the eu's fundamental objectives is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its citizens, while ensuring their security (article 21 teu). i therefore believe that in order to deal with the threats and challenges facing the eu, there must be greater cooperation between member states in implementing a common framework for defence policy. the report stresses the importance of improving intelligence exchanges between member states in order to ensure adequate control mechanisms that strengthen international security.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because there are many foreign policy points with which i do not agree.
in writing. ‒ i supported the non-legislative resolution on the eu in a changing global context a more connected, contested and complex world because i believe strong common action by the union and its member states is needed to respond forcefully to the challenges of safeguarding european values and its model of social development. i believe that the european union needs to take greater responsibility for its neighbourhood, so as to create the conditions for peace, stability and prosperity which would also have a positive impact within europe's borders. finally, i believe it is essential to involve the european union, national parliaments and european citizens in the implementation of a comprehensive strategy which takes account of the security environment and, where appropriate, new threats to the union's survival.
in writing. i thank mrs kalniete for her work on this report on the state of the eu and its presence in a changing global world. the report focuses on four key features of the union which it must strengthen to keep pace with this progress. they shall, in particular, ensure the security of the member states, their citizens and territories; responsibly uphold a state of security with both the states bordering the eu and those further afield; to ensure that the union becomes an influential rule-maker in an increasingly multipolar context; finally, commit to regular eu scrutiny through the cooperation of the different participating members. in this way, the union will be able to maintain a competitive and influential position in an increasingly global context.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu in a changing global context - a more connected, contested and complex world. the promotion of peace, values, the well-being of the population, the security of citizens and the territory are all priorities for the european union, which is increasingly faced with a series of complex and interconnected challenges and threats, which imply the existence of strong solidarity between the member states, since threats against individual states must in fact be regarded as threats to the union itself. it is of paramount importance to link up the various local, regional and global contexts, to act jointly between the european union and the member states in order to respond effectively to challenges, to safeguard the union's own values and to contribute to common security.
in writing. ‒ in view of the increasing geopolitical uncertainty in the world, the deterioration and systematic nature of the crises affecting the areas of immediate european strategic interest and the complexity of the causes of this ongoing instability, we vote in favour of the kalniete report. the proximity of the regions affected by conflict, the common character of the threats coming both from within and outside the borders of the european union, and the interconnectedness of the historic challenges facing the people of europe require a profoundly european, holistic approach. the violence that has struck europe has shown the weakness and ineffectiveness of individual and non-shared measures and the consequent need for greater coordination at european level. the migration crises, the security threats and the need to stabilise neighbouring countries, which are closely linked, go beyond the national borders of individual member states. the change and the disruption affecting the international scene require a strengthened role for the european union in foreign policy. the european union must therefore emerge on the international scene as a credible and decisive actor capable of effectively guaranteeing regional peace.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union is currently facing threats from both internal and external actors on the eu's borders, whereas these threats require a unified and effective response to safeguard the union's principles and values, and whereas in defending states and the people who live in them, member states must cooperate with each other and also aim at improving relations with neighbourhood countries. moreover, since greater connection with the united states and nato is necessary to deal with global threats, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is a priority for the union to strengthen its foreign policy action by identifying the interests shared by all 28 member states in every region of the world and in every relevant policy area. the global challenges we face today call for coherent and structured cooperation in defence research, the industrial base and cyber defence through the sharing of data, resources and good practices, in order to use national defence budgets more efficiently. i also support the importance of urging the commission to achieve the objectives set in 2013 for a comprehensive security regime, as well as to deploy joint defence forces to improve military crisis management capability and ensure emergency planning. eu-nato cooperation should therefore be strengthened, ensuring coordination between operations and supporting action beyond the eu's borders. finally, the union must commit itself to filling the security gap in the neighbouring areas and creating conditions of stability in line with its values, by addressing the causes of the current conflicts, migratory flows and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has faced several threats to its security. a more connected world requires a comprehensive european strategy for participation. we must think of a strategy that can withstand prolonged crises. there are some shared parts of the report, such as the need to move towards collective solidarity between member states on security issues, the necessary long-term strategy to manage migration crises, the many references to sustainable development and respect for human rights as the guiding principles of the security strategy. despite the positive aspects, there are a number of critical aspects such as the reference to the need for enhanced cooperation between the eu and nato and the call for member states to spend at least 2% of their gdp on military resources. but nothing about the efficient use of europol and nothing about the sharing of information between the investigative agencies. although some of our amendments have been accepted, the final text is still unacceptable and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the current economic and political crises have increasingly immediate consequences on the eu territory and no member state can deal with them alone, so europeans should assume their responsibilities collectively, as enshrined in the treaty on european union. the eu must therefore ensure both internal and external transformation and the institutions must anticipate, prevent and resolve foreseeable challenges and threats. it is crucial to implement measures that ensure the security of energy and raw materials supply, to implement ambitious environmental policies to limit the effects of climate change, and to promote economic and industrial policies that look to the long term and enable the eu to play a leading role in global action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on europe in a changing international context. the report highlights the old and new challenges facing europe and calls for a strategic role at international level. the report identifies the us as a strategic partner and calls on europe and its member states to take greater responsibility for their own security and to be more active in foreign policy, making full use of the provisions of the lisbon treaties on csdp. i am convinced that the member states must work together to prevent crises and conflicts in neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ the eu's interest in establishing bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia began in 2007 with the development of a comprehensive and complex strategy. in 2015, the european institutions embarked on a lengthy process of revision. all the key issues, such as respect for human rights, economic integration and energy cooperation, have been renewed in an organic and consistent way. the main objectives include increasing the funds allocated to regional development, education and the development of the specific features of the territory, as well as support for the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors. i have decided to vote in favour of the strategy as a positive one and in line with the eu's fundamental values and principles, which are given due consideration alongside economic interests.
in writing. ‒ since the collapse of the soviet union, central asia has assumed a crucial importance on the international scene, becoming a battleground between russian and chinese influence. the region, with its five countries, is a crossroads of cultures, religions and ethnicities, and today it is witnessing numerous gaps in respect for human rights and the rule of law, as well as a dangerous spread of islamic extremism, which is attracting more and more resources and people to daesh. the european union has a strong political, economic and social strategic interest in promoting stable relations with the states of the region, fostering economic, infrastructure and rights development in the whole area. the revision of the eu-central asia strategy is an important step in this context to improve diplomatic relations and accompany the process of democratic transition in the region, with particular attention to the issues of forced labour and child labour. i was unable to vote because of a mistake in the registration but i did say that i would vote in favour of the meszerics report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy addresses important issues such as the promotion of religious freedom and the rights of women, children and minorities. however, the text does not sufficiently reflect the social and political changes taking place in central asia, in particular the increasing spread of islamic religious fanaticism and the support given to terrorist organisations. i am therefore convinced that the eu should carefully consider whether to strengthen its relations with this asian region. for all these reasons i have voted for abstention.
in writing. ‒ central asia is a region of growing strategic importance for the european union in a number of areas. with a view to greater and more effective cooperation with the countries that make up this area, the strategy adopted in 2007 should therefore be revised, taking account of the progress made, but also of the gaps that have characterised our approach to these realities so far. i supported the report voted on today because it outlines a differentiated approach to the macro-area of central asia, based on a perspective which embraces the peculiarities common to the whole region, on the one hand, and on an approach which looks more closely at the specificities of the individual states which are part of it, on the other. the areas in which we must strengthen our united action at european level and cooperation with the countries of the region are still many: the european union is committed to the development of a comprehensive and balanced regional policy, including the promotion of economic cooperation and increased investment in the region, dialogue on human rights, respect for gender equality and minorities, and the development of full democracy and the rule of law. these principles remain our guiding principles and we must never stop promoting them in our external action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that central asia is an area of enormous strategic interest to the european union and that it is therefore important that the eu-central asia strategy be revised in order to respond more effectively to the multiple challenges that this region poses.
in writing. ‒ the central asian region, while not being strategically a priority area for the european union, is nevertheless, given the growing economic and trade links and its privileged position bordering the middle and far east, an important geographical area that should not be underestimated. in this sense, the new eu-central asia strategy must be an important vehicle for the transmission of soft power and the values which underpin european integration (democracy, the rule of law, protection of human rights) in order to stabilise an area which still faces considerable difficulties in respecting the rule of law and many of the fundamental freedoms, including freedom of opinion and sexual orientation. it is therefore important to deepen cooperation with the countries of the region (e.g. by increasing development aid funds) and to encourage the diversification of the main energy suppliers for the european market, but it is equally important to make all agreements and economic aid conditional on the respect by the third countries concerned of fundamental human rights and strict democratic criteria.
in writing. ‒ the report does not address the real problem and is reduced to mere statements of principle, which are nevertheless acceptable. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy. many issues were considered and analysed in detail: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, in particular the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes. the eu has a strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all central asian countries on the basis of shared common values, but the approach so far taken to structure relations with the central asian states has proven to be of limited sustainability and little success. eu funding to these countries should be based on incentives and performance, taking into account the results achieved against a set of benchmarks defined for each country and in line with measurable progress, in particular in the area of democratisation.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the european parliament's recommendations on the new eu strategy to revise the eu-asia strategy, which is based on the recommendations of the european parliament. the report is consistent and reflects eu values and priorities in the field of human rights and the rule of law. despite some aspects which are less agreeable, such as the section on energy security, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report represents a strengthening of the bilateral relations between europe and asia as well as the multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia on the basis of shared common values. i could only express my support for this because it attaches particular importance to the promotion and strengthening of bureaucracy, human rights and good governance. i believe that the european union must respond to a country where respect for democratic norms and human rights is at a worrying level, especially as we make it a basic pillar of humanity and integration within the union. i believe that cooperation between our two great nations must not be limited to a mere commercial relationship, but that we have a responsibility to participate in this process of development, with a view to mutual development, not only economically but also democratically and socially.
in writing. ‒ the central asia strategy adopted by the european union in 2007 was reviewed by the european commission in 2015, which started the parliamentary procedure on the implementation and review of the strategy, which will conclude with the adoption of this report. the eu strategy has so far failed in all areas and it is therefore called for the differences between the various partners involved in the agreements to be taken into account, with precise benchmarks and indicators for monitoring progress. in addition, development funds should be allocated to the region if it shows improvements in strengthening democracy, the rule of law, governance, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the report highlights that the human rights situation in central asia does not meet adequate standards, especially with regard to the protection of fundamental freedoms. the countries concerned are therefore invited to make greater efforts to protect human rights, to support the development of renewable energy and to seek greater economic integration between the different regions. i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ at international level, it is crucial that the eu plays a leading role in the area of neighbouring countries, including those in central asia (kazakhstan, tajikistan, uzbekistan and turkmenistan). this area is now of increasing strategic importance to the eu and i therefore believe it is important that the central asia strategy be updated. the eu should take strong action to become a key player. in addition, in order to ensure greater efficiency in its actions, the european union should also strengthen its cooperation with other actors in the region, such as the united states and the osce. in the region, the eu should focus on a number of key issues such as fundamental rights, respect for press freedom, gender equality and the severe lack of infrastructure. in order to achieve these objectives, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a new european union strategy for central asia. the eu has a strong strategic, political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia. in addition, the current and worrying security threats, such as terrorism, require greater cooperation between these two regions. the growing importance of the asian region requires new long-term strategies aimed at mutual and lasting enrichment.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite some positive aspects of the text, other points could have been dealt with better and with more attention.
in writing. – i supported this report as it outlines a good and solid plan of action in regards to the eu’s external relations with central asia. the report takes into account relevant experiences in the past that we can learn from when it comes to cooperation with central asia and our influence there. to customise our approach to each individual country in the region is therefore of utmost importance if we want to have any relevant impact in these countries where the eu does not have the same general leverage as in our neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy because i believe it is necessary for the european union to strengthen its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia, on the basis of shared values and the historical link between the two continents. central asia is a multiethnic and multi-confessional region and respect for democracy and human rights is a sine qua non for closer understanding and cooperation between the european union and kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, uzbekistan and turkmenistan, which represent the bloc of the five central asian countries. it should be noted, however, that the approach adopted so far has not produced the desired results, since trade agreements and economic relations, in addition to the desirable promotion of cooperation and integration, have remained weak and have not supported a sufficient degree of modernisation and development in the countries concerned. finally, i would stress that the fight against terrorism and the increased security measures put in place to protect against the danger of infiltration by isis can in no way justify highly repressive measures against civil society and the opposition.
in writing. in view of the strong strategic, political and economic interest that the eu is having in strengthening bilateral and multilateral agreements with all the countries of central asia, i express a positive assessment of the content of this report. the strategy outlined in the report calls for the priorities, objectives and targets to be aligned with the interests and methods of other central asian trading partners, operating through targeted action plans that can bridge the gap between countries. it also tends to pay greater attention to women's rights and, in particular, to gender equality; the european union is committed to the development of the region and to the promotion of the development of the region. finally, an important part of the document is devoted to safeguarding the freedoms of the media, of expression, of association and also of assembly, which are fundamental to the democratic structure of a country.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy. central asia is a region of strategic importance to the european union in terms of economic potential, energy diversification and security interests. however, this strategy has not yet produced any significant progress. a strong commitment, strategic, political and economic, is therefore needed to strengthen this relationship through greater political and economic cooperation, with a commitment based on the principles of responsibility and ownership. trade and energy links between the eu and the countries of central asia and cooperation on security and stability need to be strengthened, bearing in mind the importance of democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law. this will help to meet the needs of the region in terms of regional cooperation, poverty reduction and improvement of living standards, as well as good governance and economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has recognised that the strategy towards these countries that has been pursued to date has gaps that need to be filled. the european union has a major strategic, political and economic interest in the region which it is essential to maintain and strengthen. the cooperation and partnership agreements concluded by the union with a number of central asian countries are in this direction. europe is in favour of working with countries that protect the rights of citizens, are able to maintain inclusive democratic institutions and promote peaceful coexistence between peoples. the new strategy is moving in the right direction, promoting closer cooperation on trade, political and diplomatic relations. it is important to remember that it is in europe's interest that these countries are stable and prosperous, because security in the region is a direct consequence of this and the union is an important actor, always committed to supporting a lasting peace. finally, to ensure the full implementation of the strategic objectives, the report encourages the use of strongly performance-related incentives, seeking to give a new impetus to relations with central asia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution under consideration, as i believe that cooperation with the asian region is of fundamental importance for strengthening the european union's neighbourhood policy and for intensifying trade and energy relations with asian countries. i therefore believe that trade, political and diplomatic cooperation, including support for a democratic transition in asia and the promotion of human rights, should be stepped up. in addition, the bilateral relations that some eu member states have developed with the countries of central asia 'impose' on the eu a more active role in this geographical area. in this way the european union will be able to speak with one voice and demonstrate great unity among its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to strengthen eu-asia relations in line with the review carried out by the eeas, the commission and the council in 2015. the redefinition of the objectives must allow a process of cohesion and prosperity in the region, whose political, economic and environmental stability is of fundamental importance for the union. the implementation of the new strategic objectives of bilateral cooperation with europe must be based on the transfer of good practices, models and values that can support the central asian states in the process of regional cooperation and integration and give rise to social models based on respect for human rights, the rule of law, the modernisation of political structures and the overcoming of the serious economic and environmental problems that continue to destabilise the area. i also support the importance of a differentiated approach, which takes account of the specific challenges of each state in order to initiate a dialogue on them. issues related to security, the protection of ethnic and religious minorities and lgbti persons, as well as the protection of women's rights and the promotion of gender equality are also of primary importance.
in writing. ‒ in the two-year period 2013-2015, the volume of trade between the european union and central asia increased by 8%. kazakhstan alone (with which an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement was recently concluded) absorbed 88% of the total eu-central asia trade volume, worth eur 31 million. the final partnership agreements have already been concluded with kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan, while a provisional agreement is still pending with turkmenistan. the situation is different for accession to the wto: some of these countries are recent members, others have a long-term objective. wto membership provides greater guarantees and legal protection for investors, but corruption remains a problem throughout the region. in revising the eu-central asia strategy, the commission has included economic development, trade, investment, energy and transport as its main objectives. for all these reasons, i voted in favour and i hope that the eu will call for more efforts to combat corruption, reduce bureaucratic burdens and provide greater protection for foreign investors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy. it stressed the importance of maintaining cooperation with the countries of central asia in order to promote stability and security in the region, whose geopolitical situation is becoming increasingly complex and delicate. the european union and the countries involved in the strategy need to work together effectively to strengthen their bilateral and multilateral economic and political partnership relations, with a view to jointly addressing the challenges and threats to the security, development and stability of these territories of major interest to the eu.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the revision of the central asia strategy. we share the report's critical attitude towards the substantial failure of the strategy followed so far and support for a more focused and, at the same time, more coherent approach in bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia, with the common objective of creating a stable area of peace, prosperity and democracy. we recognise that the measures proposed in the report are in the right direction in supporting increased development funding on the one hand and in conditioning its disbursement on the strengthening of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including access to education, gender equality and sustainable development, on the other. we firmly believe that respect for these principles must prevail over any form of economic, commercial and energy relations. in this respect, we support the perspective presented in the report that greater connectivity and cooperation with the countries of central asia can promote european energy diversification, solely and exclusively by working on the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency. it is stressed that other eu projects such as the construction of the transcaspian gas pipeline are not justified by the forecasts of the evolution of european energy needs and should be reviewed as being contrary to the principles of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the central asian region plays a key role for the eu in terms of economic potential, geostrategic interests linked to security and energy diversification. it is important to bear in mind that the countries of central asia are facing major external shocks, such as the economic slowdown in russia and china and the current geopolitical tensions in the region. despite rapid economic growth in recent years, the region faces high poverty rates, sharp income inequality and a declining life expectancy. the role of the european union should be to support the growth of these countries by ensuring that it is based on democratic principles.
in writing. ‒ in the early months of 2016, the zika virus outbreak and spread was seen in tropical and subtropical regions of the americas. it is a viral disease, transmitted by mosquitoes of the genus aedes, which generally causes a mild infection, except for pregnant women, in which case there is a high probability for newborns to develop fetal microcephaly. the who has declared the spread of the virus to be a public health emergency of international concern. the eu has therefore decided to allocate €10 million from the horizon 2020 programme for research and development of a vaccine, while a further €40 million could be earmarked for research on malaria and infectious diseases. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus, first isolated in 1947 in uganda, is transmitted by mosquitoes of the genus aedes. on february 1, 2016, the who declared the zika virus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern, following the serious events that affected the northeastern part of brazil. the emergence of the virus has been associated, in this situation, with a concentration of cases of microcephaly and other neurological diseases, among which guillain-barré syndrome stands out in particular. some transmission incidents have already occurred in the outermost regions of the eu but the greatest risk for the continent could occur in the summer of 2016 through autochthonous transmission of the virus via vectors. the resolution adopted by parliament and supported by me calls on the commission to consult member states and third countries which have experience in monitoring and combating the aedes mosquito, to draw up an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to provide assistance to the most affected states and regions. in addition to the funds already allocated for research, provision should be made for the free and targeted distribution of sufficient mechanical barriers such as mosquito nets and condoms, in particular to prevent sexual transmission.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation has classified the zika virus as an 'international public health emergency' because it poses a potential threat to the health of european citizens. i agree with the text that stresses the need to provide assistance to third countries affected by the epidemic and i think it is appropriate that the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) establish a committee of experts to monitor the situation and prepare a clear plan of action to prevent the spread of this virus in europe. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as declared by the who last february, the zika virus epidemic is a public health emergency of international concern. if we are to help stop the epidemic and prevent it from spreading further to other parts of the world, including europe, we must provide a rapid and coordinated response at european level, capable of acting on several fronts. these include support for research into the virus, for which there is as yet no vaccine, and, of vital importance, prevention. as the resolution adopted today underlines, we must coordinate with our international partners, and in particular with the countries most affected by the epidemic, on both fronts. it is necessary to clarify the possible causal links between the virus and cases of severe brain malformations in latin america, as well as the actual transmission of the virus, while contributing to the development of effective cures and vaccines available to the most vulnerable segments of society. finally, we must take appropriate measures quickly to prevent crossborder transmission of the infection and its spread in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the zika virus, which is currently affecting south america and has serious side effects, especially on foetuses, must be eradicated as soon as possible and that the european union must make a consistent effort to do so.
in writing. ‒ recent major outbreaks of zika virus, notably in french polynesia in 2013, brazil and colombia in 2015, have led to the declaration of a public health emergency by the international health regulations emergency committee. although not yet scientifically proven, there is a more than probable relationship between malformations and microcephaly in children born to mothers who contracted the virus during pregnancy. in this context, the european union must intensify its efforts to support more scientific studies on the nature of the virus and its development in europe and the world, and promote the implementation of a prevention and response programme at european level and in cooperation with the main affected countries, with means and resources commensurate with a situation that should not be underestimated. in particular, work on the development of an effective vaccine in the short term needs to be intensified, and closer coordination between the member states and their national and european health authorities, including the european centre for disease prevention and control, needs to be supported.
in writing. ‒ resolution calling on the eu to provide assistance to third countries affected by the zika virus epidemic, and on the ecdc to be vigilant and to set up a committee of experts on tropical communicable diseases; the commission is to be congratulated for having allocated 10 million for research into the virus, although it is to be asked whether this is sufficient, and it is to be asked to draw up an action plan to prevent its spread in the eu. i vote in favour of health first.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question, calling on the commission to propose an action plan to prevent the spread of the zika virus in europe and to provide assistance to member states and third countries involved in combating the epidemic. i call on the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) to update its risk assessments and epidemiological bulletins regularly and to set up a committee of experts on communicable tropical diseases to effectively coordinate and monitor all measures to be implemented in the eu. i welcome the commission's decision to allocate eur 10 million for zika virus research and i think it is appropriate to focus on cases of severe congenital brain malformations in latin america and their suspected link with zika virus infection. i would stress that, in view of the likely further spread of zika virus infection, it is necessary for the international community to quickly put into practice the lessons learned from last year's ebola crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of the european commission's decision to allocate eur 10 million for zika virus research. it is a viral disease which, although mild, is highly damaging to the health of pregnant women and to children born to infected mothers. the eu funds will lead to the possible development of a vaccine. in addition, a further eur 40 million could be allocated from the malaria and neglected infectious diseases research fund.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus is now a public health emergency and an immediate response is needed to tackle this outbreak. there is a lot of information that we have on this, for example it is now clear that the transmission of the zika virus to humans is mainly through the bite of an infected mosquito. however, i believe that further research is needed on three fronts in particular: a study on the strong suspicion of a link between the zika virus and congenital brain malformations, the development of treatments and vaccines and, above all, the development of tests for rapid and effective diagnosis. it is essential to respond immediately by providing assistance to those infected, in particular pregnant women, and to prevent wider transmission of the virus in these regions and other parts of the european continent. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report in order to prevent the spread of the virus in europe in a concrete way and to provide assistance to the member states and third countries involved in combating the epidemic in the most affected regions.
in writing. ‒ for several months, the zika virus has been raging in various parts of the world, and in particular in some latin american countries. some governments are still facing one of the greatest health crises of all time. at present, the most effective means of combating this virus is prevention. taking all necessary precautions to protect yourself from infection is a priority, but the current lack of a vaccine complicates this task. further downstream action is complicated by the fact that there is no treatment for zika virus. therefore, it is urgent to develop an effective action plan to prevent further spread of the virus, especially in the member countries of the european union. the risk is that the virus may spread to some european countries, and that is why i consider the action plan requested in the resolution to be important, but it will have to be equipped with the necessary resources to be effective.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which supports research and calls for an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in the eu.
in writing. i share the urgent need for a european strategy to take the necessary measures to combat the zika virus which has struck central and south america at a rapid pace and is creating serious risks of malformations or microcephaly in the foetuses of pregnant women infected by the 'killer mosquito'. i therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues in the envi committee calling on the union to implement new funding measures for research, prevention, assistance, monitoring and information as soon as possible in order to combat and contain the dangerous virus, which the who has declared to be a public health emergency of international concern.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the zika virus epidemic because i believe that parliament needs to sound a warning about the consequences of this disease, also in the light of recent studies which have shown a causal link between the virus and the phenomenon of malformations in foetuses. we must be able to stop this epidemic, which mainly affects women and children, and which also highlights a problem linked to the gender dimension and the question of access to contraceptive mechanisms in those countries, which are often particularly poor. i believe it is essential to strengthen research, by increasing the contribution of 10 million euro from the commission and by coordinating international efforts to find vaccines and specific treatments for the disease. i welcome the call for specific awareness-raising and training of health personnel to help distinguish the disease from other similar diseases. given the possibility of an outbreak of the virus in europe, given the frequency of trans-oceanic travel during the summer, i think it is essential to speed up prevention in relation to protection against vector insects and the use of contraceptive methods.
in writing. ‒ in february, the world health organisation declared the zika virus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern; transmission of the virus is predominantly through the bite of an infected mosquito and an association between the emergence of the virus and cases of microcephaly and other neurological diseases has been established. there is currently no vaccine to eradicate the virus and scientific research, if encouraged, could also help prevent the birth defects and miscarriages associated with these serious conditions. but in view of the votes of the other members of the european parliament on abortion, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus outbreak, which has been mainly recorded in latin american and caribbean countries, has shed light on the social inequalities faced by the populations of the regions concerned and on the specific problems of public health systems. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to act with the utmost urgency: the european union must take an integrated approach in providing all the resources necessary to enable countries at high risk and with an already infected target population to combat the virus and implement preventive measures to contain it. funding research to develop vaccines and targeted treatments is therefore a priority, while investigating the alleged link between the virus and congenital brain malformations: since the outbreak of the epidemic, more than 3 500 cases of microcephaly have been recorded in children. given that pregnant women are the most at-risk target, it is clear that a gender-sensitive approach is needed. the commission should also propose specific measures for european regions where zika virus has already spread, in order to eliminate all possible vectors of transmission.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february 2016, the who declared the zika virus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern. there is strong suspicion, although not yet scientifically proven, of a causal link between zika infection during pregnancy and microcephaly. there is currently no prophylaxis, treatment or vaccine against zika virus infection and there is a risk that during the summer season of 2016 the infection will spread to europe. for these reasons, it is important to develop communication plans to raise public awareness and promote appropriate behaviour to avoid mosquito bites. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the last year and especially in the last few months, we have seen the spread of the zika virus, which from brazil has infected some four million people in south america and led the who to declare the epidemic a public health emergency of international concern. one of the most worrying aspects of zika virus is the possible correlation between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly in newborns, although this has not yet been scientifically proven. the resolution adopted today calls for research to focus on preventive measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the first place and to focus on three priorities: studying the possible link between zika virus and congenital brain malformations, developing treatments and vaccines and developing tests for rapid and effective diagnosis. in order to prevent the spread of the virus in europe, we also call on the commission to draw up an appropriate action plan and to provide assistance to member states and third countries involved in combating the epidemic in the most affected regions. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in 1997, poland adopted a new constitution which, while respecting the principles of the rule of law, has guaranteed political pluralism, the separation of powers and freedom of the press and information. the constitutional tribunal, which has been the backbone of polish constitutional democracy for many years, has been the subject of major political and legal disputes in recent months, linked to the appointment of five constitutional judges and a law proposed by the government of prime minister szydlo, which was intended to severely undermine the prerogatives and independence of the court. the resolution on the situation in poland, which was voted on today in parliament and which i support, stresses with concern the sequence of events which threaten to undermine the stability of polish democracy and respect for human rights. the european parliament calls on the polish government to comply with the judgment of the general court of 9 march 2016 and to fully implement the recommendations of the venice commission. the commission must take the task of proceeding along the path of structured dialogue with the polish government, making an impartial assessment of whether or not there is a threat of systematic violations of democratic principles.
in writing. ‒ the resolution represents an unacceptable interference with poland's national sovereignty. the european union also intends to impose its own law on matters which are not within the competence of the community institutions, thereby interfering in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why i did not support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that what is happening in poland since the new government took office last year violates the provisions of article 2 of the treaty on european union on the common values on which the union is founded and that it endangers democracy and the rule of law within european borders.
in writing. ‒ respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental human rights is an indispensable obligation that every eu member state must respect, on a consistent basis, in all its political action. as pointed out by the venice commission, some recent reforms in poland, as well as the non-publication of the verdict of the polish constitutional tribunal of 9 march 2016 by the current government, effectively prevent the court from protecting the principles protected by the constitution, threatening the very essence of the rule of law. an effective, impartial and independent judicial system is a fundamental prerequisite for the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens. the european commission must therefore continue to monitor strictly the respect of these principles and promote dialogue with the polish government in order to put an end to a situation which is a source of great concern. the european institutions must also closely monitor the growing popular mobilization in poland for a reform of the right to abortion, and if the situation so requires, they must act with conviction and firmness in defence of a fundamental right which is the result of bitter battles and an indispensable milestone on the road to the effective and complete emancipation of women.
in writing. ‒ the resolution constitutes an interference in the national sovereignty of poland: the eu is not responsible for the problems of the poorest countries. the reference to the constitutional court's judgments is a pretext, as the majority of judges have orientations contrary to the current government. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion [2015/3031(rsp) ] on the situation in poland because we are facing a conservative turn in the country which raises a lot of concerns. he discusses in particular the reform of the constitutional court and the law that effectively puts the state media under government control. poland, despite the misgivings expressed by the european commission, has approved the reform of the constitutional court, which limits the authority of the judiciary, thus calling into question the fundamental democratic principle of the separation of legislative, executive and judicial powers. the european commission must ask poland for more explanations on laws that violate the democratic standards of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, while it is a matter of interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, it is only a tool of political pressure for principles in which i believe. without going into the details, i believe that this european union must respect and enforce certain basic values, while remembering that it draws authority from the member states and not vice versa.
in writing. ‒ the eu has always been committed to promoting respect for fundamental rights, including women's rights, common european values and the rule of law in the member states. recently, governments in several member states have undertaken reforms relating to the above rights. since december 2015, poland has launched a number of reforms that have a direct impact on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights in the country. these reforms have raised many concerns within the eu, including changes to the way the polish constitutional court operates. several european authorities have shown interest in this situation, including the parliament, the european commission and the venice commission. i join this movement in voting in favour of the resolution because i believe it is essential that the european union continues to act to ensure that the fundamental principles so dear to european citizens are applied as effectively as possible in all the member states, including poland.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland, and in particular the political and legal dispute over the composition of the constitutional court and the new rules on its functioning, have raised concerns and opened a debate on how best to ensure respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the european context can help to clarify whether there are threats to democratic values and the rule of law in the member states and we therefore hope that the european institutions will monitor them in the same way and avoid any disparity in treatment.
in writing. ‒ i am against the report because it touches on issues outside the eu's remit.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the motion for a resolution tabled following statements by the council and the commission under article 123 (2) of the regulation on the situation in poland. it is important to remember that poland is an important member of the european union which has contributed to the economic and social development of the community over the years and is one of the best examples of how european policies of inclusion can help countries to grow and prosper which are ready to share european values. in the last few months, unfortunately, poland has been experiencing a time of great change and a break with the past. among the most worrying changes is the paralysis of the national constitutional court, which represents a danger to democracy and the rule of law. the venice commission has urged the polish government to act on its recommendations, calling for the judgments of a constitutional court to be respected. the european institutions, through commission vice-president tommermans, have expressed their commitment to a constant dialogue with the polish institutions. it is vital that poland now respond to these significant gestures by ensuring respect for fundamental rights enshrined in the constitution and international standards.
in writing. ‒ on the question at hand, i voted in favour. given that the worrying paralysis of the constitutional tribunal in poland seriously jeopardises respect for human rights and democratic principles, i believe that the commission's commitment to monitoring the legislative situation in poland, through a structured dialogue with the polish government, can make an effective contribution to respect for the rule of law and legality. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent events in poland are of serious concern to the european parliament. the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, which cannot fulfil its role as guarantor of the supremacy of the polish constitution, since the judgment of 9 march 2016 has not been published and therefore cannot enter into force, represents a huge risk for the proper functioning of the democratic life of the country and a threat to european law and fundamental values, including women's rights. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to monitor closely the polish government's implementation of the international standards required by the recommendations of the venice commission and the decisions of the constitutional court. the commission must carry out all the necessary analyses to assess whether there is a systematic breach of the rule of law in the country and act in accordance with the powers conferred on it by the treaties, in particular in the field of subsidiarity. the commission will also engage in a cooperative and impartial dialogue with the polish authorities and offer its support to the country in developing solutions to strengthen the rule of law in the short term.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a somewhat paradoxical debate. we are talking, we spoke yesterday about the problem of terrorism, that we must control everyone, that we must have more data exchange, and here we are talking about data being kept safe, what is this all about? i believe that we are at war against islamic terrorism and as such, i care about my privacy, i want to be safe for myself and my fellow citizens and so, in my opinion, we have to make sure that there are no such discussions. there's no rule of law when you're at war, so you have to hit who you have to hit, you have to control everyone. the united states after 9/11 looked at everyone without looking at privacy anymore, why can't we do that? or do we want more terrorist attacks and then we start crying like crocodiles again?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the protection of sensitive personal data requires solutions at european, if not global, level, and i congratulate the rapporteurs on the result achieved. i have spoken on this subject many times, most recently in a written statement on the apple-fbi affair presented with 25 other colleagues, calling for a european impulse to regulate access to encrypted communications, which must be made available without creating vulnerabilities in the system, whether in public or private hands. this is in line with the ethical principles of careful evaluation of the use of new technologies and with my recent question on pnr, in which i pointed out that it takes a long time to implement and may not correspond to the real needs of law enforcement, especially in the case of the notorious terrorist emergencies. i think it is important that we vote almost jointly tomorrow on the pnr and the personal data protection package, in effect creating a legal framework of reference which can accommodate privacy and security needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing for a few days now a tool which should and could already be available to the authorities who could use it as an additional tool to combat terrorism, among other things, a terrorism which is dramatically violent, cruel and cynical, and yet we are still here discussing and someone says: but why all this attention to this pnr, as if it were the panacea? it is not the panacea, it has become such a long debate because for years there have been political forces in this parliament which have continually and constantly blocked the normal course. because the commission published it in 2011 and since june 2013 some political forces have blocked it, with the excuse of privacy. i have here, and i always quote him, a very famous, distinguished italian magistrate who, just last year, beginning to see these difficulties, began to say: "look at freedom, freedom when it is limited by the law, defends itself". so a small restriction of freedom, guided and ordered by law, is to defend freedom. then let's not fool ourselves, we are in the society of selfies, facebook, twitter, everyone who takes selfies, they are here, they are there, they are up, they are down, the tablets, and for the terrorists instead privacy congratulations and good luck and they put amendments to bury it, bury it! they want to bury him, the citizens must know!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the expectations, the pnr will unfortunately not be able to solve the security problems on its own, it is only a step forward towards the creation of a common european framework for investigations and intelligence services. we desperately need coordinated, global european instruments to counter the threat of terrorism, since we have seen the ineffectiveness of a purely national approach. i agree with the need, as highlighted by my group, to vote on the pnr together with the data protection package. i strongly believe that the exchange of personal data must be accompanied by the creation of a clear legal framework on their use. the key is that national governments take coordinated action to combat terrorism, some member states must overcome their selfishness and understand the need to fund european anti-terrorism bodies, to make better use of european tools for sharing vehicle registration details, fingerprints and dna data and of course to strengthen europol.
in writing. the collection of passenger data is, according to the commission, a way of collecting data on individuals in order to increase the safety of european citizens. however, systematic and general data collection can only be useful for ensuring security if there is a related obligation to cooperate and exchange relevant information. without this obligation, the right to privacy is sacrificed without guaranteeing the security of citizens. "he who is willing to give up his fundamental liberties to buy a crumb of temporary security, deserves neither liberty nor security". - benjamin franklin
in writing. the passenger name record has been a subject of debate for years. the subject, which is certainly sensitive, has become very topical in the wake of the recent terrorist attacks. how can we ensure the citizens' security against fundamentalist violence while maintaining our european way of life, which is based on freedom, democracy and cultural diversity, largely unchanged? in a somewhat caricatured manner, some have tried to portray a phantom "iron arm" between the eu council and parliament. in the council, where national governments sit and where citizens asked for quick answers, a 'security' logic prevailed, pushed by some member states, whose priority was the adoption of the 'sec et simpliciter' pnr. this parliament has wanted to link the pnr closely to the issue of fundamental rights, including the right to privacy, because linking the issues of the protection of fundamental rights and security is a choice of field, to ensure that our fellow citizens and our europe do not give up their fundamental values. if europe is a community of values, under attack from many sides, we cannot give in to those who, not sharing these values, resort to terrorism to undermine them.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a masterpiece of hypocrisy, it seeks to hide the rules, which have also been documented in the subsequent speeches on the difficulties facing turkey's path to membership of the european union, by emphasizing and even praising the behaviour of turkey, which is said to be hosting the largest number of refugees in the world. however, the report does not deal with the nature of the hospitality and, above all, the mass rejection practices that amnesty international is denouncing at this very moment. there's a question that comes up at this point: turkey is a safe country for refugees? and one more question: the european union has repeatedly applied this principle of rejection to those who in italy, greece and france have raised problems with the influx of illegal immigrants, and perhaps even with the invasion of illegal immigrants. you do not care that the principle of rejection is being applied en masse in turkey, and this is a fundamental contradiction which shows how absurd this fine idea of the agreement with turkey is. at this point, it seems clear to me that we must reject visa liberalization, as we are doing, and call for verification of turkey's genuine commitment to the fight against foreign fighters and for an end to the ambiguities about turkey's relations with isis.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain medicinal products. i would like to thank mr le grip and the commissioner. i am sorry, but i totally disagree with what was said earlier, because having also followed the data protection regulation, i have to say that in times of insecurity, terrorism and consumer health problems, there is no secret that i can keep. this, we have been very clear, we have said it in all languages and translated it into all languages, if i may use this euphemism. the purpose of this directive is very clear and precise: to protect small and mediumsized enterprises, to protect those who innovate, those who produce and those who have the genius to have found something new. i think it is time to move from words to deeds, because we are full of mouths when we say we help small businesses, but when they have that added value that the big company does not have, we must be able to protect them with trade secrets. i would like to conclude very briefly by saying that harmonization must also be done from the point of view of justice at european level. the cost of making mistakes is the same throughout europe.
the result we have reached after a long and delicate debate is very important. the initial proposal of the council - and indeed of the commission, which is not always properly supported by the council - had obvious limits, explicitly threatened to restrict freedom of expression and information and did not adequately protect whistleblowers and workers. the end result is exactly the opposite. we have achieved, with patience and with the cooperation of all, changes which are now appreciable as a whole and also for each individual chapter. i would add that i hope that in the further discussion in this parliament the commission intends to put forward new proposals which will have to concern whistleblowers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in the same way as the information provided by the member states. if i have any regrets, it is that i have not been able, together with my colleagues, to give workers the same protection as whistleblowers, but as long as there is life, there is hope. we are therefore taking an important step forward today, we are voting on this report, and i hope that you will be willing to tackle the issues that have been objectively and inevitably left out in the cold.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to concentrate on a very few aspects of this budget, thanking first of all the rapporteur and all those who have worked on the budget. i believe that the work we have done in committee across all the groups would have saved far more than has been done, would have done a much wider job than has been done. i believe that the new security expenditure, which we are all of course convinced of - not so much for our own security as for the security of our staff, the security of officials and others working in parliament - is absolutely necessary expenditure, but it is, as it were, excessive expenditure. i think it should be stopped, it should be done away with the safety issue to justify any kind of spending. an example of this type is the example of and i only quote it because i see that i have no more time of drivers. i think we are making a big mistake, i think we are making a mistake in our assessment, i think we are making a mistake in our perspective. we should give the european citizens - because the budget of the european parliament also answers to the european citizens - a more balanced budget with greater savings intentions.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly, because we have a solid result and a result that we can also support. in a budget, especially in an institution like ours, it is always important to see a little of both sides. the citizens certainly expect us to be careful with our money and to try to spend as little as possible on our activities. there are possibilities. for example, when i think of the fact that delegations travel, you can also think about how many people we need to take with us, what languages we need. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but on the other hand, the quality of parliamentary work must be guaranteed, and the quality of parliamentary work is in the funding of our staff, it is in the funding of the political parties. fortunately, the budget for the european parliamentary association, which i am privileged to preside over, has also been kept. it is also a contribution to democratic will-building and democratic debate. it is important that we have these budgets and the corresponding funding. i can therefore support this budget without further ado and i hope that we will adopt it together tomorrow.
in writing. while the states are caught in the grip of austerity and deflation, the plenary voted in favour of increasing the european parliament's budget by 3.4% compared to 2016, for a total of €1,900,873,000. the five star movement has put forward proposals for a rational and weighted cut of around €130 million, including a 15% cut in meps' salaries and allowances. our proposals have not been accepted. unfortunately, the proposal to eliminate subsidies to european political parties and foundations, whose budget has increased by 248,46% since 2008, reaching 50,905,000 euros in 2017, was not accepted. this is the europe that must change and that we want to change: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the purpose of this question is to contribute to the process of reviewing the sme supporting factor, which is a key measure for access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises. smes are the engine of our economy, generating 55% of europe's gross domestic product and employing almost 80 million of our fellow citizens. however, in order to continue contributing to growth, small and mediumsized enterprises need to be supported with funding that enables them to go international, to keep up with the times, to invest in new projects, to hire new employees. the monetary policy of the european central bank is not sufficient to achieve this objective. quantitative easing, for example, and rate cuts can only support policies that are in favour of the real economy, but they cannot replace them. to avoid deflation - or worse, as the international monetary fund warned us just yesterday, a secular stagnation in europe - we need concrete measures, such as the ems supporting factor, a virtuous example of the balance between regulatory constraints and flexibility. this support factor has led to a 2% increase in bank credit to small and mediumsized enterprises over the past year and a half, compared with a 7% reduction in bank credit to large enterprises, and to a reduction in interest rates of some 20 basis points. in view of the end-of-year review, we call for the ems supporting factor to be confirmed and strengthened, extending its application also to loans above one and a half million euro, thus eliminating the threshold currently provided for. this would allow more companies, especially medium-sized ones, to benefit from the discount factor. i also share and support commissioner hill's commitment to make this instrument an international standard, through the basel committee.
i would like to thank commissioner hahn for his words and commissioner hill for his reply to the letter in which a large number of members of the econ committee expressed a very clear position, which i would like to reiterate here and which, moreover, emerged clearly from the debate. there is a very large majority in the econ committee in the european parliament who say that the ems supporting factor must be maintained and indeed strengthened. this is a political fact which, of course, the commission and the other bodies of the union cannot ignore, and we have a firm political will in respect of which we read with interest the considerations made by the eba in its report, but they do not seem to us to support and support the need for any change in prudential policy towards small and mediumsized enterprises. the european parliament took this initiative when defining crpd iv and what we are now saying clearly is that it must be maintained and even strengthened. the evidence presented here can also be reversed, because for example the fact that the credit risk difference of one and a half is not apparent also supports the idea of raising this threshold, not necessarily lowering it as the eba claims. so parliament's position is clear and we are happy to have the commission's support and we will continue our initiative on this subject.
the agenda includes the report by tamás meszerics, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of the increase in household expenditure (2015/2223(ini)) (a8-0040/2016).
ms. morvai, you were amply compensated for the disturbance you received from the interview between two of your colleagues, i gave you 40 seconds more than you had time, so i think you were rewarded.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for what has been a very rich discussion. it has demonstrated our strong commitment, our joint commitment, to the fight against poverty and to making the europe 2020 social goals a reality on the ground. the discussion has also highlighted the enormous toll that the crisis has had on our societies. there are some signs of stabilisation, and if we mobilise our energy we can still make real progress. now more than ever we need to join forces and focus on the delivery of the strategy in a holistic way. let me repeat that this commission has set itself a clear ambition: a europe worthy of a social triple a. this implies that social considerations have to be properly taken up across all policy domains. it implies that the welfare of people in europe and the improvement of their everyday lives have to be at the heart of policy-making, and this is what we have set out to do. the focus of the energy union on addressing energy poverty is a concrete way of delivering on this commitment. it is clear that if we are to reach our ambitious social goals we cannot afford ‘business as usual’ thinking. we need a forward-looking approach investing in the skills that people and businesses need. we also need our social protection systems to be fair and adequate and to perform well – for men and women alike. the european pillar of social rights reflects this approach. adequate and sustainable social protection is one of the three major headings of this pillar. minimum-income schemes and access to housing, as part of the social protection system, have been included among the twenty policy domains, as have gender equality and work-life balance. president juncker and i share the ambition of promoting and enriching the debate on these matters in your constituencies. thank you very much, and let us continue to cooperate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 april 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the growing number of citizens living in increasingly precarious economic and social conditions is a painful indication of the fact that the economic crisis that has engulfed much of europe and the austerity policies that have exacerbated many already particularly difficult conditions are undoubtedly complicit. i firmly believe that to meet such an urgency, more channels need to be activated, developing new dynamics and new commitments that leverage broader, solid and integrated investments across the different specific actions, also providing for alternative and combined measures to support the creation of a new european pillar of social law. i am referring, for example, to the increase in targeted support for people living in poverty, measures to guarantee a minimum income, health care and adequate housing policies for the most vulnerable groups, the extension of the european fund for the poor, and support for social objectives in energy policy, ensuring not only environmental protection measures through the use of renewable sources, but also a further commitment to poverty prevention through the commitment to the introduction of a possible european moratorium on the suspension of heating in winter for households in particular economic difficulties.
the agenda includes the briefing of the report by mr nirj deva, on behalf of the committee on development, on private sector and development (2014/2205(ini)) (a8-0043/2016).
that concludes the point. the vote will take place on thursday 14 april 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes seven motions for resolutions on pakistan, in particular the attack in lahore.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally wanted to join in and thank you for all the speeches in which you have strongly condemned terrorism. i also believe that europe must send a clear message that human rights must be defended not only on paper but also in practice. in the sense that we naturally appreciate the intentions of the pakistani government, but on the other hand we expect concrete facts to show that respect for human rights is not just a statement of principle but a fact of everyday life in pakistan. i am referring here not only to situations of religious discrimination but also to ethnic discrimination, because we must not forget - i ask that europe also be vigilant in this respect - that there are situations such as that in baluchistan, where - also on the basis of the many indications that amnesty international has given us - i believe that europe must be clear, because it is a question of checking whether there is really discrimination which is not religious but ethnic, but which is still discrimination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in pakistan on easter day was an attack, as we have seen, of islamic terrorism. but once again, in this house, except in rare cases, people are afraid to say that it is islamic terrorism. there are people who kill christians just because they are christians. the same thing is happening in europe, and what is europe doing? nothing, look, it's like a zombie looking around, but it doesn't do anything. the great european politicians will certainly never be harmed, because the great european politicians do not go to the subways, they do not go to the airports, where all the citizens pass, as we are. no, they have private planes, they operate in other ways and nothing happens to them, but what can happen to real citizens? everything and more. what are we gonna do? i'm not worried. europe is doing nothing, it cares very little, christians are still being hit and islamic terrorists should be punished by the death penalty. i 'll say it again: even with the death penalty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the struggle for human and environmental rights in honduras is paying a very heavy price in blood. on march 3, activist berta cáceres was the first to speak. berta cáceres was committed to the peasant communities and indigenous movements of honduras in defense of human rights. police believe she was killed in an attempted robbery, but there's no doubt she was killed for her social commitment. since then, other activists have been attacked and the situation in the country is becoming more and more dramatic. according to the organization global witness, honduras is the most dangerous country in the world for environmental activism. in recent years, dozens of people have lost their lives in honduras for protesting against the devastation of the land sold to the multinationals. the government of honduras must commit itself to ensuring the safety of all human rights defenders, in particular those working in the field of environmental protection. honduras must become a normal country and europe must push for this to happen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with honduras, but i would like to ask the honourable members: but why is europe doing business with china when china is doing all sorts of things and is not a democracy? why have we made new agreements with iran where they even hang homosexuals? we have, by the way, a homosexual italian undersecretary who has now gone to iran to shake hands, so he is a homosexual in italy to get money, obviously to sit with the chair under his butt, and then goes to iran to shake hands with those who hang homosexuals. or saudi arabia, but we do business with them. now we're going after honduras, which the un said had a fair election, but what does honduras have to do with it? you, depending on where you have to do business, then talk about multinationals, but if out here is full of lobbyists of multinationals and you go there to talk every holy day and then say that in honduras there are multinationals that have to do the dams, but are you hypocrites or what are you?
we are also aware of the fact that the nigerian government has been involved in a number of cases of corruption and fraud. however, violence can only be defeated if human rights are respected and the rule of law is upheld, and if those who fuel terrorism or commit atrocities against the civilian population are not punished. the fight against terrorism must be a comprehensive strategy and it is our responsibility to combat its root causes and also the financing of terrorist groups through natural resources. the european union must therefore give back a future, a hope, a dignity to millions of women and young people by providing them with an education, by reviving interreligious dialogue, by working towards a more equitable sharing of natural resources. boko haram today is not defeated, two years after the abduction of the chibok schoolgirls, many of them have not yet returned home, and may never return. let us not forget them and let us not allow this to happen again.
i want to thank the authors of this resolution for really bringing this issue up again almost exactly two years after the sad anniversary of the abduction of the 200 chibok girls. the issue of boko haram belongs in this house as a general issue related to the islamic state, which we pay relatively much attention to. we're paying a lot of attention to the situation in syria, but we're paying a lot less attention to the issue of boko haram. it's a bit of a shame, because boko haram is as dangerous an organization as the islamic state, and the islamic state is now formally recognized and considered part of the islamic state. we should show our support for the president who is trying to fight crime in this country, but on the other hand, we should also remember that we are two years into the sad anniversary of the abduction and 200 girls are still missing. so we need to call on the president to do more.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have already dealt in this house with the violence perpetrated in africa by the fundamentalist group boko haram, violence which is often perpetrated against women and children. on april 14th, two years ago, 219 schoolgirls were abducted in the nigerian town of chibok by the islamic extremist group. unicef reports that the jihadist group has used children in a suicide bombing, the un calls the situation terrifying. we must provide a humanitarian response in the lake chad region as soon as possible. words are no longer enough to express our indignation. it is no longer enough to condemn violence and express regret for the victims, often defenceless children. the indiscriminate violence cannot be tolerated and the european union must provide its support to the nigerian authorities and its president in order to neutralize those responsible and normalize the country, including through the coordination of the armies of the neighbouring countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said yesterday in the debate, the socialist group is formally asking the commission to submit a directive on whistleblowers, a directive which will be able to defend those who are not protected by the directive we are about to vote on. for this very reason, not voting today on the trade secrets directive would be a serious mistake, it would leave small businesses in a competitive situation, it would not protect whistleblowers as much as possible, and it would not even protect the workers who are affected. that is why i think it is important to vote today, while the commission is busy putting forward its proposal on the whole subject of whistle-blowers. i am opposed to the proposal made by mr reda and i ask that the vote be taken.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the albrecht report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. the measure adopted today repeals directive 95/46/ec and sets new standards for the digital age, in a context of the increasingly widespread use of the internet and related technologies. the main objective is to protect citizens' data by establishing rules introducing a number of concepts such as the right to be forgotten, parental control and the provision of a minimum age for the use of online services. the one-stop shop system is particularly relevant for the business world, as the new legislation will provide important services to entrepreneurs. the adoption of the report is a major step forward in data protection and ensures full implementation of the rights enshrined in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation on the protection of individuals modernises and updates the principles contained in the 1995 data protection directive, giving european citizens greater control over their personal data. in particular, the new legislation more clearly defines the rights of natural persons and the obligations of those who process data or who are responsible for their processing, by reorganising and completing the methods for ensuring compliance with the rules and the scope of the sanctions for those who violate them. among the new measures, some of the most interesting are the right for european citizens to transfer their data to a new internet provider, to know if their data has been hacked or the ban on mass surveillance and the introduction of a time limit for the retention of personal data. the new regulation, which applies to all companies handling data on european citizens, even if they are not established in the european union, is an important step forward in clarifying and updating the regulatory framework in a fundamental and highly sensitive area.
in writing. ‒ the data protection package had a very long parliamentary process, lasting for a number of years. in short, we are satisfied with the final result, because a real regulation of data is fundamental and necessary. the most critical point to be made is the legislative distortion of some of the provisions, but overall the safeguards in the handling and processing of personal data and the consequent guarantees for the privacy of all citizens that are provided meet the minimum criteria we have always demanded.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on the motion for a resolution on the following grounds: the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, as well as the free movement of data and thus the related issue of privacy, in the form of aggregated data, and the systems used to protect them (encryption), require solutions at european, if not global, level. this is in line with the ethical principles of careful evaluation of the use of new technologies and with my recent question on pnr, in which i pointed out that it has considerable costs and takes a long time to implement which may not correspond to the real needs of law enforcement, especially in the case of the notorious terrorist emergencies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the creation of a clear legal framework on the use of personal data is therefore necessary in the personal data protection package, since an aggregate amount of information could violate privacy and, paradoxically, refine terrorist techniques.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 eurobarometer data show that european citizens are particularly sensitive to the online disclosure and control of personal information. the protection of personal data is a fundamental right of the european union enshrined in the treaty of lisbon: the commission has therefore taken effective and up-to-date measures to protect it. the commission's proposal to introduce two new legislative instruments to protect both citizens and businesses is therefore to be welcomed. the general data protection regulation, by ensuring first of all better information on what happens to personal data once it is shared, contains two other points of particular interest: the so-called right to be forgotten and the minimum age for using online services. a single set of rules applying to businesses offering online services in the union can further facilitate cross-border data exchange and ensure greater economic and social integration. the new proposal for a directive, the first instrument to harmonise 28 different legal systems on data exchange, facilitates the work of both national law enforcement agencies and european agencies at a time, such as the present, which requires the greatest possible cooperation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, on which parliament has been working for almost four years. it was time to replace the old 1995 directive, since the traffic of data has changed a lot since then and at the same time it has become necessary to find a balance between the sacred right to the protection of personal data, enshrined in the european charter of human rights, and the unstoppability of the flow of data in the world. i think that the european parliament's negotiating team has done a good job, but i am prepared to question the whole text if problems of any kind should arise from its application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the act was adopted in accordance with the council's position.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, i wanted to support the european parliament's endorsement of the council's position at first reading on the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. i believe that this resolution represents a historic milestone in providing a single legal framework in europe which will eliminate the current divergences between national data protection laws. this is a step towards a compromise between the needs of privacy and consumer rights on the one hand and the needs of a competitive digital market and a transnational security system on the other. european citizens will finally be informed about the use and breach of their personal data, without compromising the innovation of the digital single market and the fight against crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec (data protection regulation). i believe that in the present context it is essential to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, and in particular their right to the protection of personal data, and at the same time i believe that it is essential to guarantee free movement within the borders of the european union.
in writing. directive 95/46/ec of the european parliament and of the council aims to harmonise the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data. the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental and also inviolable right, which must be recognised and guaranteed irrespective of the nationality or residence of the data subject. although its objectives remain valid today, directive 95/46 ec has not been able to prevent the fragmentation of the way in which the protection of personal data is applied in the eu, not least because it was conceived and approved in the pre-internet and pre-social network era, which undoubtedly changed and revolutionized the way we handle personal data and information. for these reasons, a revision of the legislation was necessary, which was made on the basis of the needs of the digital age in order to give citizens greater control over their private information, with greater confidence and legal certainty also for european companies.
in writing. ‒ in view of the council's position at first reading on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the rapid pace of technological change has made it imperative to update the legislation governing the processing and protection of personal data. the old 1995 directive was adopted when only a small percentage of citizens had access to the internet and social networks, online banking and e-commerce did not yet exist. today the internet affects almost every aspect of our lives and an ever-increasing amount of personal data is being put online. it is of paramount importance that this data is handled appropriately. that is why an update of the regulation is so important. it is up to date and gives citizens back control over their personal data. for the first time, we have a harmonised system of protection covering all 28 member states of the union. building trust in online environments is crucial for economic development. lack of trust is holding consumers back from buying online and using new services and risks slowing down the development of innovative technological applications. the new package makes it clear to everyone that the eu is serious about protecting the rights of european citizens, helping to create the necessary climate of trust.
in writing. ‒ the new eu data protection rules aim to give citizens greater control over their personal data and to create a high and uniform level of data protection across the eu in the digital age. the reform sets minimum standards for the use of data for judicial and police purposes. the draft also provides for the establishment of a european data protection board, which will include representatives of all 28 independent supervisory authorities and replace the existing article 29 committee. the project also provides for the transfer of personal data to third countries and international organisations. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the internet is no longer just a useful platform for finding information, but a tool that is part of our lives and contains a part of them. the law of persons must therefore find a way to adapt to these changes. that is why i voted in favour of the recommendation proposed by parliament on this regulation, because it represents a further step forward by europe in protecting people in the digital age. it aims to ensure that personal data are respected (the right to be forgotten) and requires that they be used as transparently and clearly as possible (informed consent), so that the citizen-user can know and make an informed decision about the use of his data. the vote aims to harmonise european policy on the protection of individuals, putting their rights at the centre, including in the digital sphere, and providing a clear framework for eu businesses, to the benefit of their competitiveness. the opportunities offered to businesses by the digital market should not be underestimated, given the greater integration of the single market. but these opportunities can only be such if they also guarantee respect for the rights of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update the directive on the protection of personal data and to give greater protection to natural persons. in recent years, we have seen an exponential growth in the sharing, collection and global flow of data. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. this has necessitated more modern and uniform regulation at european level to protect citizens. the new regulation defines the rights of natural persons, such as the need for consent to the processing of personal data, the right to rectification and erasure of data and facilitated access to their personal data. it also sets out the general obligations of those who process or are responsible for the processing of personal data, including the obligation to implement appropriate security measures in relation to the risk associated with the operations carried out and to report personal data breaches.
in writing. ‒ after four years of long and complex negotiations, we have finally approved today the data protection package, which updates the european privacy framework to the challenges posed by the digital evolution to the rights of citizens and businesses. the first element of the package is the regulation on the processing of personal data by industry and public authorities, which will ensure a high and uniform level of data protection throughout the union. the regulation will enable citizens to better manage their data, while businesses will be able to seize the opportunities offered by the digital single market through a simplification of administrative burdens. the new rules include provisions on the right to be forgotten, conditions for 'clear consent' to the processing of personal data, the right to know about the breach of one's personal data, clarity of information on privacy policies, stricter enforcement of these provisions and administrative fines of up to 4% of annual turnover for companies that breach these provisions. for these reasons i voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ the recently adopted directive on the protection of personal data in the field of activities to combat illegal activities aims to protect data processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal sanctions. in accordance with article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as well as article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which enshrine the right of every person to the protection of personal data concerning him or her, it is essential to ensure a high and uniform level of protection of personal data at european level. at the same time, however, it is necessary to facilitate the exchange of personal data between the respective national intelligence services in order to ensure greater security and prevent crime. in this sense, i think that the directive in question strikes a good balance between these two different requirements, guaranteeing the right to confidentiality and, at the same time, giving the police the possibility of better countering and preventing the occurrence of illegal activities.
in writing. ‒ the data protection package had a very long parliamentary process, lasting for a number of years. in short, we are satisfied with the final result, because a real regulation of data is fundamental and necessary. the most critical point to be made is the legislative distortion of some of the provisions, but overall the safeguards in the handling and processing of personal data and the consequent guarantees for the privacy of all citizens that are provided meet the minimum criteria we have always demanded.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on the motion for a resolution on the following grounds: in the light of the attacks in paris and brussels, member states need to share information more effectively. the establishment of harmonised rules between member states on the transfer and processing of data should facilitate this process, while ensuring that the fundamental rights of european citizens are not infringed. but the panama papers also confirm the need for information to be handled properly, also in view of the seriousness of the financial crimes that need to be revealed. i expect the european union and the commission to speak with one voice in its proposals to protect european values and restore consumer confidence, since the fight against terrorism needs new instruments and the securing of the european financial and banking system is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in the europe we live in, which is always open and ready for cooperation, there is a need to protect the privacy of individual citizens more. in addition, this report lays a solid foundation for the processing of personal data for the purposes of investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, since, especially in the light of recent events, greater prevention is needed and it is therefore essential to strike a balance between the protection of personal data and the use of personal data against crime. that is why i voted in favour, because i am convinced that this report is moving in that direction, aiming to strengthen, guarantee and clarify the rights of the persons concerned and to establish basic protections today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the act was adopted in accordance with the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the processing of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of crime is a matter of paramount importance for all the european institutions. i believe that the approval is no longer deferred. the events of the last few months have shown the extreme fragility of our security systems and have made it necessary to have an effective system for exchanging information between the member states. the protection of natural persons on eu territory is a priority that has long required a uniform response from all member states. it is clear that protecting the security of citizens implies the use of a uniform data processing system, which puts an end to the current national differences in this field and makes it possible to identify and prosecute crimes, including those of a terrorist nature. above all, it is clear that this need must not be hindered, but rather go hand in hand with the right to privacy of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and i consider that the adoption of this legislation, together with the vote on the pnr directive, represents an important milestone for europe. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and the whole s&d group on having fought a just battle to combine the pnr legislation with a uniform legal framework for the processing of personal data, which ensures a uniform system of data collection and storage in all states and which respects the rights of citizens, first and foremost the principle of privacy. it is up to the member states to implement these two instruments in their national legal systems, ensuring on the one hand the protection of citizens' rights and on the other hand genuine cooperation between intelligence authorities.
in writing. ‒ on the proposal by mrs marju lauristin, given the council's position at first reading on the subject under consideration, i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for criminal proceedings and investigations ensures strong protection of the rights of all european citizens. this is a fundamental guarantee. in fact, if data concerning suspects, witnesses or victims were not properly processed, their security as well as their right to privacy or to a fair trial would be compromised. for the first time, strict rules are now established, which apply equally to all european citizens. and all police forces in europe must respect these fundamental rights. this harmonisation will make it much easier to exchange information between member states, so as to ensure that law enforcement agencies have the information they need to prosecute suspected terrorists and international criminals. the tragic events in paris and brussels have made it clear that the real problem is not the lack of information on terrorist suspects, but the fact that this information has not been used or shared effectively by national police forces. the approved package will play an important role in correcting this by providing police and judicial authorities with harmonised rules on how to process and share data.
in writing. ‒ the data protection directive for police and criminal justice authorities is part of a data protection reform package proposed by the commission, which also includes a general data protection regulation. ensuring a uniform and high level of protection of personal data of natural persons and facilitating the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the member states is essential in order to ensure effective cooperation between judicial and police authorities in criminal matters. this requires that the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences enjoy an equivalent level of protection in all member states. the reform package will benefit individuals by strengthening their fundamental rights and freedoms in relation to the processing of personal data and confidence in the digital environment. i voted in favour of all of this.
in writing. ‒ this new directive on the processing of personal data of natural persons will facilitate the free movement of such information for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and detection of crime. however, judicial and police authorities will have to both ensure that personal data are processed lawfully and collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and provide clear and understandable information to the data subject, who will have the right to request any restriction of processing. i believe that in the fight against transnational crime and terrorism, clear and consistent data protection rules at european level and closer cooperation between the competent authorities in each member state are necessary to ensure the safety of citizens. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the personal data protection package, i voted in favour of the draft directive on the processing of personal data transferred for the purposes of judicial and police cooperation. the measure sets out, for the first time, minimum standards for the processing of data on victims, witnesses and suspects in each member state in the areas of preventing, combating and prosecuting crime and the enforcement of criminal sanctions, thus facilitating cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the eu against transnational criminal and terrorist acts. only by establishing common rules for the exchange of information between the competent authorities will they be able to overcome the distrust which has hitherto prevented genuine judicial and police cooperation to prevent the occurrence of crimes planned and committed in more than one member state. for these reasons i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the directive on the protection of trade and business secrets. the proposal, which unifies the policy of the 28 member states on this subject, will provide firm guarantees of protection for companies, making european soil even more attractive for future investment. in the age of digitisation, sharing and 'given money', it was necessary to build a set of rules to protect businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, from the risk of losing their trade secrets and, therefore, their wealth. with this directive, europe is taking the lead in the world in terms of protection in the digital market, while maintaining its principles of freedom of expression and movement. the s&d group's efforts have led to the introduction of special safeguards for journalists, whistle blowers and workers with sensitive data who wish to change their working environment.
in writing. ‒ the collection of passenger data (european pnr) is, according to the commission, a way of collecting data on individuals and increasing the safety of european citizens. we believe that systematic and general data collection can be useful for ensuring security if and only if there is a related obligation to cooperate and exchange relevant information. in our view, this directive sacrifices the right to privacy without guaranteeing the security of european citizens. for these reasons i would have voted against.
in writing. ‒ pnr codes, linked to the information that all passengers provide to airlines when booking flights, are one of the most important tools for preventing and detecting serious crime and terrorist-related acts. the kirkhope report, which i supported in parliament today, effectively describes the innovations approved in the collection, sharing and analysis of pnr information. the new directive requires member states to set up a passenger information unit (piu) to collect booking codes from airlines and store them for a period of five years. six months after the transfer of data, certain elements such as name, address and contacts will be masked to ensure the protection of passengers' privacy. the new procedure will make it possible to store, process and transfer data more efficiently, while at the same time providing protection for passengers and enhancing the action of law enforcement and intelligence services.
in writing. ‒ the report on the use of reservation code data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime (pnr) is not particularly critical and is therefore acceptable. i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the recent dramatic events in brussels, it was necessary to send a clear signal to our citizens' demands for decisive action on security. the fight against criminal networks and terrorism must be carried out at eu level, providing the relevant agencies, such as europol, with all the necessary tools. this is the interpretation of the directive adopted today on the use of pnr data for crime prevention. i would like to emphasize the work done by the s&d group on this directive. we have succeeded in combining the need to ensure greater security with due respect for the privacy of our citizens. this will establish a quota for the retention of information, with rules for the protection of personal data which do not allow indiscriminate access to the personal sphere of each individual. the compromise reached fills the previous legislative gap in the european situation, thus facilitating the collection and sharing of data between states. such data will be more relevant, comparable and therefore able to provide the speed needed to carry out incisive preliminary investigations, which are often indispensable for prevention work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, in the light of the challenge posed by international terrorism, it is necessary to adopt countermeasures aimed at preventing and avoiding attacks such as those in paris on 13 november 2015 and in brussels on 22 march 2016. i therefore believe that, despite the remaining doubts about the protection of the privacy of european citizens, the use of pnr data by law enforcement agencies can be an important tool for prevention.
in writing. ‒ the dramatic attacks in paris and brussels in recent months have accelerated the approval of the pnr register, an important new tool that will facilitate the collection of data on air travellers to and from the european union, facilitating checks by police forces and the various judicial authorities, thus making an important contribution to the fight against terrorism. despite the positive elements that the new pnr introduces, i would point out that there are some critical points, such as the fact that the new measure does not provide for a form of automatic exchange of pnr data between the member states. once again, the blind opposition of the more conservative fringes of parliament has prevented the approval of an important element which would have further increased the effectiveness of the whole system. but unless the governments of the member states decide to deepen cooperation further, by means of dialogue and the continuous and timely exchange of information in their possession, we shall never be able to give a complete and exhaustive answer to the difficult problems we are facing. the hope is that we will soon have a single european intelligence service.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour, the fight against terrorism requires the renunciation of the protection of privacy, we are at war and we must be clear about who is entering and leaving the eu.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the new directive regulating the use of reservation number data (pnr) for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. this is an important new tool in the fight against terrorists and traffickers. by collecting, sharing and analysing pnr information, our intelligence agencies are able to detect suspicious patterns of behaviour that need to be verified. pnrs are not a magic formula, but member states with national pnr systems have once again demonstrated that such systems are highly effective. understandably, concerns have been expressed about the collection and retention of personal data. as a member of the s&d group, i fought for the pnr to be voted in plenary alongside the data protection package, because i strongly believe that the exchange of personal data must be accompanied by the creation of a clear legal framework on their use.
in writing. ‒ the use and exchange of passenger data has raised many concerns and fears among citizens and practitioners about the various implications of privacy legislation. pnr data, which is information provided by passengers when booking air tickets, will be shared by carriers with member states and managed by a dedicated national authority passenger information unit (pii) which will use it to investigate persons who may be involved in terrorist offences or serious crime. in fact, many countries already collect such data and have followed international standards in the absence of european provisions. the directive, on the other hand, harmonises the system of collection and processing and avoids disparities in the protection of personal data. it is an important tool in countering the terrorist threat, but it will not protect against attacks if it is not accompanied by greater cooperation between national law enforcement authorities and the intelligence systems of the eu countries. i voted in favour of this because i think it is a good compromise which has managed to strike a balance between data protection and security requirements. it was not an easy task, nor was it a given.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the most sensitive and at the same time most important issues we are dealing with given the recent terrorist attacks. this proposal deals with the use of passenger name record (pnr) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. i believe that the basis for an effective way of combating this new type of crime is the exchange of information, without which any police system would be fruitless. that is the direction this report is taking and that is why i voted in favour of it, because if carefully analysed, pnr data can be an effective tool for detecting and controlling criminal and terrorist activities. it is clear that more decisive action is needed today and cooperation between member states in the exchange of such information is, in my view, the first step in this direction of preventing and prosecuting terrorist offences. my group was right to insist on the timing of this measure, which has long since been forgotten in a drawer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of the pnr for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences. under the new directive, airlines will be required to provide the competent authorities with pnr data (each passenger's name, travel dates, itinerary, ticket details, travel agent with whom the flight was booked, payment methods used, seat number and baggage information) of flights arriving and departing from europe, all of this while protecting the privacy and personal data of individuals. this is a fundamental measure to ensure security and control in the transport sector, which has unfortunately been the target of attention by terrorists and violent organised groups over the years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 14 april 2016 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of booking reference data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. in fact, recent events have shown us that terrorist networks exploit the possibilities of links between eu countries, which have not been sufficiently controlled, to carry out their operations. the eu's inability to know who is entering or leaving its borders is seriously undermining its efforts to combat terrorism and other serious forms of crime. the need now arises for the eu to develop a document, the passenger name record, which lists information concerning individuals entering or leaving the eu. it is also important that this data is used for the sole purpose of ensuring better security for european citizens and with respect for their privacy.
in writing. ‒ eu countries will exchange data on passengers on flights. the pnr (passenger name record) directive, which is essentially the collection and sharing of passenger data/flight plans across europe, provides a single community regulation for the collection and exchange of information by authorities for prevention, investigation and prosecution purposes. a step forward in the fight against terrorism: the pnr tool will allow a closer fight to the so-called foreign fighters. five years to vote on the measure in plenary is too long. in any case, today's result is an important one which will make european citizens safer.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report which i consider to be good in some parts, but more could be done towards greater control and security.
in writing. ‒ today's vote on the pnr marks a victory for common sense in protecting citizens who, in the light of recent events, are calling for greater security. the european unions have for years prevented us, by voting against, from adopting the pnr directive. they sacrificed the possibility of greater security in the name of an instrumental, ideological and irresponsible vision of privacy protection that today, with the use of technological tools such as cameras, mobile phone tracking and social media, appears anachronistic. it took three attacks in just over a year and one of them could have been prevented according to the french authorities if the pnr had been in force to make the european left understand that there is no room for ideological positions when the lives of our citizens are at risk. it is now up to governments to make the directive operational as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the second report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the use of pnr data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, and i regard the adoption of this instrument and the legislation on the protection of personal data as a very important moment for the european union. i believe that the pnr directive is the solution to all problems and the ultimate weapon against terrorism, but i strongly support the need to increase the sharing and circulation of information on potential dangers between the authorities of individual states: the tragic events in paris and brussels clearly demonstrate how better sharing and exchange of information and intelligence could have saved countless lives and perhaps even prevented attacks. i believe that the directive ensures a balanced legal framework for the sharing and use of such data. it is now up to the member states to implement the legislation both in law and in practice, by organising real and fruitful cooperation between the competent national authorities in order to guarantee the security required by all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ after years of work, parliament has succeeded in passing this important measure on the air passenger data register. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: these measures will certainly play an important role in the fight against terrorism, but they are by no means the only ones. once collected, this information must be processed and transferred and used effectively by the competent national authorities. and above all, the data being exchanged should serve primarily as a criminal intelligence tool and not as a border control tool. i also welcome all safeguards relating to the protection of passenger data, in particular those prohibiting the processing of data revealing the racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, state of health, life or sexual orientation of the data subject.
in writing. following the tragic terrorist events that have struck some european capitals, there is a clear demand from our citizens to increase security levels. that is why we have been pushing for the unblocking of the so-called pnr, the register of passengers on flights, and we have won the political battle after four years of work, and have now got it approved. we now have an additional, strategic tool for the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which will allow us to monitor suspicious persons and their movements, to prevent possible attacks. the proposal creates a system whereby airlines operating flights between a third country and at least one eu state are required to provide pnr data (including name, address, route and credit card used) to law enforcement authorities and allows the rules under which these authorities will be able to use the data received to investigate and prosecute potential crimes to be determined. we've given up a small portion of our privacy for important reasons of safety for all of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ finally, after months and months of delay, parliament has finally approved the pnr directive. i am convinced that it will be a useful tool in assessing any threats arising from so-called foreign fighters. in a time of emergency we must give concrete answers to our citizens to ensure their safety.
in writing. ‒ in view of the recent and despicable attacks perpetrated on the borders of the european union, we could only support the call for greater data and information sharing and closer cooperation at european level. the gravity of the terrorist phenomenon, the interconnectedness of the challenges it poses and the common character of the threats and dangers facing the people of europe cannot, in fact, be separated from common responses and measures. the cowardly attacks have exposed the weakness of a security system based on fragmentation. however, we welcome the report only as a first step towards greater integration and information sharing, in full respect of the rights to privacy and data processing, more systematic and structured. in the face of the terrorist threat, there is no other possibility of a common front and common struggle. we hope, however, that the member states will adopt the measure swiftly and we call on national governments to make better and more effective use of the legislative instruments, starting with the sharing of vehicle registration information already available to them.
in writing. ‒ whereas the commission adopted a proposal for a council framework decision on the use of reservation code data as early as 2007 and whereas this proposal is now considered to be obsolete; whereas the use of such information would be for the purpose of intercepting, monitoring and prosecuting criminals; whereas there has been an increase in criminal and terrorist activities in recent years and the use of passenger reservation codes would allow for more effective tracking of persons without thereby conflicting with the rules on the protection of personal data; finally, given that a decentralised operating system would impose less burden on the member states than a centralised mechanism, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the pnr directive because i believe it is a fundamental tool for monitoring our security, as i believe it is necessary to have a common and single european standard on this issue and not 28 fragmented regulations which would of course guarantee us much less effectively. on the other hand, we must not think that such legislation alone will enable us to defeat terrorism in europe. a broader and more complex action of intelligence, police coordination and investment in education can really take terror off our streets. only genuine joint action and solidarity by each member state can protect us from attacks such as those that have struck paris and brussels. as we have said many times, our group has been very keen to see the pnr directive adopted at the same time as the data protection package, precisely because it is clear that our need for greater security does not mean a reduction in our right to privacy, although some freedoms as we have known them up to now will inevitably have to change. i believe that with this vote we have taken a decisive step forward in the fight against terrorism, but we must not forget that this is only a small part of it and that much more concrete action will have to follow.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal has two main objectives: (i) harmonise the obligation for air carriers operating flights between a third country and the territory of at least one member state to transmit pnr data to law enforcement authorities and (ii) identify the criteria under which law enforcement authorities may use such information, in particular for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. the proposed system is compulsory and each member state will have two years to set up an operational system. this is a major step forward in the fight against international terrorism and finally, overcoming the obstructionism expressed earlier by the socialists and democrats, the european parliament has succeeded in passing this important piece of legislation. the measures taken regarding the transmission and use of pnr data do not impede the freedom of movement and do not compromise the right of entry of citizens or their privacy, but contribute to protecting their security. i voted in favour of this resolution, convinced that the eu still has a long way to go before it can defeat all its internal and external enemies.
in writing. ‒ the extraordinary situation we are experiencing in europe, symbolized by the attacks in paris and brussels, required europe to raise its security standards to protect the freedom and life of all its citizens. that is why i voted in favour of a proposal for which the epp has long campaigned, namely the establishment of a european passenger name record (pnr) system for air carriers. it's not about collecting additional data. the collection of passenger data (in particular from air carriers) will be for the sole purpose of finally making available the information already collected by airlines, to help prevent serious crime. each member state of the union will therefore be called upon to make effective the sharing at european level of information of value to the security forces, particularly in the fight against terrorism. in the spirit of a civilization based on the right of the person, the directive explicitly includes, in addition to the right to privacy, the reference to international conventions signed by the member states, including the convention on human rights, to prevent any ideological abuse in the use of such data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the compromise reached on the pnr directive on reservation code data which aims to regulate uniformly the processing and sharing of such data by member states in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. under the directive, airlines will be obliged to transfer pnr data such as names, travel dates, itineraries and payment methods of passengers on non-eu flights to the member state where the flight is scheduled to land or take off. in addition, each member state will have to set up a passenger information unit to identify individuals to be subject to further verification by the competent authorities. i believe that this proposal represents a real step forward and a useful tool in the fight against terrorism and international crime, especially in view of the recent events in paris and brussels, where so-called foreign fighters have been targeted. i hope that the pnr directive will make it possible to identify not only those who are already suspected, but also those who are not yet known to the authorities.
in writing. ‒ achieving the best possible balance between ensuring the safety and protection of the privacy of european citizens has been the concern of the european parliament in the long legislative process of adopting the directive on the use of reservation code data (pnr), the system for exchanging information between member states' investigating authorities on airline passengers on international flights. that is why we, as a socialist group, have called for the adoption of the data protection package and the pnr directive together, in order to create an appropriate regulatory framework for the processing of data and the fight against transnational crime and terrorism. the pnr directive provides for the possibility for law enforcement agencies to have unrestricted access for 6 months to all personal data of passengers on international flights for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of serious crime such as terrorism; after six months, these data will still be available for five years but through a more complex procedure and only for some specific offences. passenger information communicated by airlines to member states will be handled by appropriate national authorities in accordance with specific criteria, conditions and rights for citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the proposal to introduce the possibility for states to collect and exchange pnr data a personal identification code on a european basis. i voted no because i remain convinced, also on the basis of recent experience, that the massive collection of data will not prevent attacks and ensure the safety of citizens. instead, we need more international cooperation, more intelligence and prevention and inclusion. you know, it's got to be political. today's vote was "emotional". a vote on the wake of the recent sad events in brussels. but i don't think that's the way to legislate. as i have said many times, the protection of citizens must not be at the expense of our personal and fundamental freedoms. that is why i have decided to vote against, even against the opinion of my own group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on the processing of reservation number data (pnr). the legislation will oblige airlines to pass on data on passengers on transcontinental flights to the authorities of european countries, in order to help fight terrorism. the interinstitutional process has been very long and arduous. the need to develop more stringent security measures has been reconciled with the need to protect the privacy of our fellow citizens. the socialist and democratic group has played an important role in this, firmly affirming the principle that security without respect for the democratic principles of the rule of law is unacceptable. with this vote we have voted to reject a package which is certainly more balanced than the initial proposal. the attention of the socialists and democrats to the subject, however, will remain very high. the security policies of the various member states will need to be coordinated more closely in the future to ensure that we can respond as effectively as possible to the global challenges we are now facing.
in writing. ‒ the directive aims to protect 'trade secrets', i.e. the information and know-how which are assets for the company. although we warn that this directive favours the legal protection of the trade secret of smes, the instrument of legal action is, in our view, easily manipulable. specifically, the legal action in question may harm individuals who do not have a legitimate business interest, including journalists, workers who want to change companies and whistle-blowers. for these reasons i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the harmonious development of an efficient market economy requires that a difficult balance be struck between the free movement of information and the right to protection of business secrets. that is why i have today supported the le grip report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of confidential know-how and business information against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. the directive aims to bring together national rules, which differ widely, by providing for common definitions, measures and penalties capable of providing greater legal certainty for operators and strengthening the european single market. it is an effective instrument which will ensure the protection of the rights of workers, whistleblowers and the freedom of the press while not hindering those who report illegal or unlawful practices by their companies.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights that the protection of sensitive information in the field of trade is a cross-border problem, which must be solved at community level. our companies need a common system of rules and protection in all the member states to prevent the theft of information covered by trade secrets and a legal instrument to defend themselves at international level. i have always fought to defend our businesses, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive adopted today marks an important step towards creating a more uniform and effective legal framework at european level for the protection of professional know-how and confidential commercial information which underpin the development and competitiveness of our companies. parliament has succeeded in making considerable improvements to the commission's initial proposal, arriving at a balanced text which, it should be stressed, is not intended to defend illegal or improper conduct by companies by masking it as trade secrets, but which aims to protect the intangible assets of european companies, in particular smes, by guaranteeing them equal conditions and legal certainty in all member states, to the benefit of the functioning of the european single market. not only that: we have succeeded in inserting in the final text specific exceptions to protect freedom of expression and information, workers and those who disseminate certain information not necessarily relating to illegal conduct, but also irregular or incorrect in the public interest. the so-called whistleblowers are therefore protected by the directive, although we ask the commission to submit new proposals to deal specifically with the system of guarantees to be reserved for these persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is important, in order to maintain the high level of innovation in the european economy, that a common legislation on the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure be adopted, which would allow for a uniform regulation for all member states. i think, however, that a better balance needs to be struck between the needs of secrecy and those of business-to-business exchange.
in writing. ‒ businesses and not-for-profit research institutes invest in the acquisition, development and application of know-how and information, which are the currency of the knowledge economy and allow for competitive advantage. it is this capacity for investment, innovation and efficiency that constitutes the added value of most of the products - goods and services - produced by european union enterprises: goods and services which are world-renowned for their high quality, for their scientific and technological excellence and for the wealth of knowledge and skills which underpin them. these products, due to the investments in research and development by the companies that produce them and the high quality they represent, tend to have a significantly higher initial fixed cost to the producer than less advanced and lower quality products made in third countries. it is therefore in the urgent interest of all eu member states to protect the trade secrets and know-how of european companies and to do everything necessary to block the dissemination of illegal information, while also ensuring fair processes for all companies.
in writing. - i vote for it. i think that this is (for once) a regulatory intervention which respects the treaties. the problem of protecting trade secrets is a cross-border problem. trade secret holders need a system of rules and protections common to the 28 eu countries. all this is even more important for a member state like ours which is trying to make innovation and know-how a world-class asset. in order to try to clarify certain sensitive issues, several references to the need to protect fundamental freedoms and guarantee the right to information have been inserted in the text. the rapporteur even states that the french journalist who reported on the luxleaks scandal could not have been prosecuted (by luxembourg) if the text had already been in force. keep this in mind: in 2013, a quarter of european companies were victims of at least one case of stolen information, with small and medium-sized enterprises being the most exposed. with this legal instrument they might perhaps have at least some more tools to defend themselves beyond their national borders.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question to help companies obtain legal redress against the theft or misuse of their trade secrets. with one in five companies falling victim to theft of trade secrets every year, this harmonisation should create a safe and secure environment for european companies, which will have their intangible assets and know-how protected. i have also fought with my colleagues in the s&d group to ensure that the guarantees provided for in the text to protect the work of journalists and whistle-blowers are real and as unambiguous as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on trade secrets because it is concerned with pursuing a point which i believe is fundamental to the development and growth of our countries under the banner of the european union. it is clear that collective development is easier and faster in a space of mutual sharing of commercial information and cooperation between the various companies spread over the territory. i believe, however, that it is also necessary to protect the so-called 'trade secret' which rewards the initiative and innovation of the individual company and also allows the various products to be distinguished from one another by the quality label, a quality to which i am particularly sensitive. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it seeks to strike the right balance between these two elements, with the main aim of laying the foundations for a further development engine for the whole of the european union, while at the same time ensuring, in this shared space, an adequate level of protection against unfair trading practices. i believe that protection against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is essential to ensuring a fair business environment for businesses.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a directive is particularly important because its main objective is to identify rules to improve the competitiveness of our enterprises. in particular, smes place a high value on trade secrets as they allow the creator to profit from his creation and innovations and to invest in research, development and innovation. our main objective is to protect smes from fraudulent practices to which they are increasingly exposed, such as theft, economic espionage, breach of confidentiality obligations, or all those practices which are aimed at the illegal appropriation of trade secrets. without effective and comparable legal instruments to protect trade secrets across europe, the incentives to undertake activities and invest in research and innovation will only decrease. it is therefore necessary to address the fragmentation of the legal system and to approximate national legislative systems, as well as to define at european level the situations in which the acquisition, use and disclosure of a trade secret is lawful or unlawful and to reduce the period of application of appeal procedures.
in writing. ‒ economic competition is currently characterised by the importance of knowledge and innovation. know-how and knowledge culture are the elements that enable companies to gain a competitive advantage and to distinguish themselves from their competitors. in this sense, it is important that companies and all persons filing a patent be guaranteed that their experience and know-how are legally protected. within the eu there are many differences in the way patents and know-how are protected, and there is no common definition of what constitutes a trade secret. in order to allow for harmonisation of patent and trade secret rules in the eu, i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution of 14 april 2016 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of confidential know-how and of confidential business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is essential that we ensure the protection of our intangible assets and know-how in order to guarantee effective conditions for the development of our companies. in an increasingly global market, the definition of trade secrets at community level, as well as regulatory harmonisation as a whole, which puts an end to the differentiation of protection levels between the different member states, is to be welcomed. i also think it is important to protect the principle of the general public interest, i.e. not to apply the penalties provided for in the directive when they are used to detect fraud and illegal activities which may threaten the proper functioning of the principle of free competition.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which seeks to protect and defend companies from cyberattacks in the eu as well.
in writing. unlike intellectual property rights, which confer exclusivity on the possession of such a right, trade secrets, which also include manufacturing, and industrial secrets confer on third parties the right to use and develop their formula freely, and are not an exclusive right to the creation. it is well known that the processing of sensitive data is authorised only by the data controller and not by third parties who are not the holders of those rights, which is why infringement of those rights is to be regarded as unfair practice, that is to say, as infringement of an inalienable right. in particular, the report on the protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure sets out the safeguards to be adopted in the event of their unlawful acquisition by third parties, such as the award of damages for damage caused by them.
in writing. ‒ whereas european companies invest heavily in innovation and the development of know-how; whereas such investments increase the competitiveness of undertakings and whereas, in order to defend their discoveries, they themselves resort to practices such as intellectual property rights and trade secrets, the latter being particularly widespread among smes; whereas, furthermore, the risk of improper and unlawful disclosure of data by third parties may act as a deterrent for european entrepreneurs to develop new ideas and projects; whereas, moreover, the trips agreement already contains rules on trade secrets; it was felt that it was necessary to stress, in addition, that an integrated approach at european level would not only make the protection of entrepreneurs more effective but would also simplify the existing legislation in the various member states. whereas, finally, the proposal for a directive on this subject does not contravene eu and national rules, in particular those which allow the disclosure of information to the competent authorities in certain cases; finally, since the proposal also serves to revive fair competition, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ harmonisation of legal procedures and remedies against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets at eu level must be accompanied by a clear understanding of the scope and definition of the matter in question. the definition of a trade secret should therefore be clarified. the new directive will be the single point of reference at union level in the context of the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement and will ensure an adequate level of protection against unfair trading practices. it is also important to emphasise that the protection of trade secrets does not create property rights, but aims to counter the unlawful nature of their acquisition, disclosure and use. i therefore think it is right to vote in favour of the new directive.
in writing. ‒ as the report to parliament explains, some member states have rules to protect against the misappropriation of trade secrets, while others do not even have rules to define the concept. this creates gaps and undermines the functioning of the internal market, as europe is one of the most advanced areas in terms of research and innovation. that is why it was important to approve the european commission's proposal for a directive by means of parliament's vote. my vote in favour is therefore in the spirit of the directive, to give our companies an extra guarantee to improve their competitiveness by offering them a clear and uniform legal framework at european level, which allows us to establish the confidentiality criteria on which a company can rely in its relations with its employees and with other companies. this strengthens the european market within the global industrial market.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today on the proposal for a directive on the protection of trade secrets aims to harmonise national legislation and protect european companies from industrial espionage. i voted in favour because this directive will oblige each member state to provide the holders of trade secrets or confidential technical information with strong legal protection in civil matters against the unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of their secret information. a number of instruments will also be implemented to address the misappropriation and misuse of trade secrets. in this way, researchers, companies and inventors will be protected uniformly at european level from the dangers of industrial espionage, which unfortunately very often discourages the creation of start-ups and innovative companies, engines of economic growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ reducing the cost of politics is a battle that the movement is waging in all the necessary places. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. unfortunately, there has been no rationalization of expenditure on political parties and european foundations, no reduction in the allowances for members and the various expenses connected with their function. for these reasons i would have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the tarand report on the forecast balance of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. this is an important text which defines the amount of resources available in parliament's budget to ensure that members and staff can carry out their duties properly. taking into account the new risk environment linked to terrorist attacks, the new budget provides for an increase in resources for strengthening security measures and in particular cybersecurity. in the current economic environment, the commitment to rigorous and effective management of resources remains strong, ensuring an adequate level of funding for parliament and european democracy while encouraging efforts to save and to improve the efficiency of the use of public funds. the report calls on the secretary-general to make a proposal to publish the budget on the parliament's website in a detailed and legible manner. this measure will enable all european citizens to gain a better understanding of the activities, priorities and dynamics of spending.
in writing. ‒ the report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017 contains some interesting points but is totally lacking in any criticism of superfluous propaganda expenditure that could be easily cut. i therefore did not intend to support the text and i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017 is fully in line with the parameters foreseen for parliament's annual budget in the context of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the usual own-initiative report on the draft budget for the coming year. the text also contains interesting references, but the tone and level of criticism are decidedly insufficient. some levels of expenditure can only be reduced by drastic measures, especially in areas that the major political groups will never want to touch and which are linked to parliament's 'communication' projects through communication initiatives aimed at citizens for purely propaganda purposes (parlamentarium, house of european history, information offices). not to mention the novelty of the internalisation of the chauffeur service "for safety reasons".
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today to ensure that parliament is equipped with the resources it needs to fulfil its fundamental role as a legislative body and budgetary authority. i would stress that in the present economic climate these resources should be managed with rigor, pragmatism and efficiency. i would remind you that substantial savings could be made if we were to move from three seats (brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg) to one seat. the axis between brussels and strasbourg is used by 5 000 people every month, at an annual cost to parliament of 200 million euro. economic waste is compounded by pollution from travel in a scenario where the eu is committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2030. i would remind you that the odyssey between brussels and strasbourg by plane, train, car, lorry, just to transport parliament's documents each time, costs 19 000 tonnes of co2 a year. if governments really want to pursue efficiency and waste reduction - particularly within the eu institutions - a single seat for the european parliament is a good place to start. that is what the members and the citizens of europe are demanding most!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure because i think it is a good account of the financial objectives which the european parliament has set for the coming year. i believe that this report will allow for a more rigorous and pragmatic management of resources, with a view to saving and also to more efficient use of public funds. it was also a vote for me to vote in favour of greater respect for fundamental principles such as transparency and legibility.
in writing. the parliament's budget has been slightly increased compared with the previous year, mainly due to the increased security needs of members, the premises, staff and visitors. the recent terrorist attacks, including in the city of brussels, make it clear that there is a need for greater security, including cyber security, to protect sensitive documents from external attacks. as always, these resources are managed with intransigence and pragmatism, in order to allow the efficient conduct of our activities and to avoid waste or neglect.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on the guidelines for the 2017 forecast budget. the points listed in the report will certainly lead to a very fruitful debate at the next budget session. at a time of persistent economic crisis, the european parliament and all the institutions must set a good example by using their economic resources efficiently. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ whereas the budget for 2017, as proposed in the secretary-general's report, would be characterised by the continuation and intensification of the policy of greater efficiency in all areas; whereas certain budget items need to be revised in the light of new needs which arise from time to time; i would like to vote in favour of this, since it is essential to ensure transparency and to take action in favour of cybersecurity.
in writing. ‒ turkey applied for membership in 1987 and was declared a candidate country in 1999. however, there are still many doubts about turkey's accession to europe. the piri report clearly shows the limits of this acquisition, by virtue of the violations of the rule of law, as well as of fundamental rights and freedoms, and of the continuing repression perpetrated, especially against the kurdish community, cleverly concealed under the pretext of the fight against terrorism. in view of recent events, particular attention is being paid to the issue of migration. the report in this connection takes note of the efforts made by the turkish government and their results, which in my view are not so obvious. for these reasons, i would have abstained, in view of the strong concerns expressed by the unhcr itself on the question of migration.
in writing. ‒ turkey has been a key strategic partner for the european union for many years. turkey, which was a candidate for membership of the then eec in 1987, has had continuous and complicated relations with the union, initiating over the years virtuous processes of reform but also numerous steps backwards which have undermined the assertion of the rule of law within its borders. at this particular moment in history, marked by the conflict in syria, the violence of daesh and the related migrant crisis, turkey is at the centre of international attention. the 2.7 million refugees hosted on turkish soil demonstrate the high sense of hospitality of the republic, which is faced, on other fronts, with restrictions on freedom of expression, the imprisonment of journalists and limited access to the internet. i voted in favour of the 2015 report on turkey because i believe it supports the eu's efforts to promote respect for the rights of turkish citizens and economic and political cooperation. only by working together can the european union and turkey resolve the crisis linked to the management of migration flows and finally ensure that the stalemate in the accession process is overcome, in addition to the solution of the cyprus question.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 report on turkey is decidedly biased and makes crazy demands such as the admission of turkish as an official language of the eu. no reference to the armenian genocide, which turkey still insists on denying a century later. the situation in turkey is not as good as the european union would have us believe; on the contrary, freedom of the press and of expression are increasingly under threat. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that turkey is a strategic partner for the european union on many fronts, such as the migration crisis or the islamic state. but i also believe that turkey's involvement in respect for human rights is something that the eu should be concerned about using its influence.
in writing. ‒ more than ten years have passed since the formal accession negotiations for turkey with the european union began. since then, the eu has made significant progress, moving considerably closer to meeting the copenhagen criteria and incorporating much of the acquis communautaire. however, the pace of reforms has slowed considerably in recent months. we are also witnessing a growing and worrying involution in the protection of freedom of expression and association, as well as an increasingly unstable situation characterized by the non-respect of the rights of ethnic-religious minorities and the lgbt community. despite a strong commitment to, for example, welcoming refugees, turkey is one of the countries with the highest number of imprisoned journalists in the world, and also has a critical level of corruption. a european, democratic, transparent turkey with an independent legal system which respects its minorities could be an important intermediary with the middle east and the muslim world, and could help to promote stability in the whole region. in this sense, we must continue to work and dialogue to ensure that this fundamental process of integration is completed.
in writing. ‒ the vote against the resolution is not only for the usual reasons but also because it calls for turkish to become an official language of the eu; there is still no reference to the armenian genocide. the resolution calls for eu-turkey cooperation on migrants to be separated from the ongoing negotiations on turkey's own accession to the european union. the text praises turkey for hosting the largest number of refugees in the world and stresses that it remains "a key strategic partner for the european union". the eu is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of human rights. the general pace of reform in turkey has not only slowed, but in some areas, such as freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary, there have been setbacks. the eu-turkey joint action plan on refugees and migration management should be implemented immediately. the urgent need for reforms of the judiciary, justice, freedom and security is reiterated.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2015 report on turkey. the country remains a strategic partner for the eu. with the launch of the eu-turkey action plan to tackle the refugee crisis, ankara is called upon to play a key role in resolving one of the most serious emergencies in recent decades. however, turkey is called upon to do much more to meet the copenhagen criteria. the time has come to align with eu standards, which necessarily requires the implementation of appropriate and effective reforms. the efforts which we are sure turkey will make in carrying out the eu-turkey action plan must be matched by efforts to strengthen the institutions and the process of democratization and modernisation in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, particularly in view of the particular historical and political situation in which we find ourselves, in which it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the european union and turkey. the aim is to offer support to turkey in ending hostilities in syria and to provide humanitarian aid to people in need. i also think it is essential not to forget the strategic importance of turkey for the energy security of the european union and that is why cooperation must be stimulated so that growth and development can be derived from this relationship for both sides.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which calls, among other things, for turkish to become an official language of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2015 report on turkey because i support the need to give greater democratic impetus to the country, especially in the areas of freedom of expression, media freedom, the rule of law and minority rights. today the european union and turkey face many challenges that still lack effective solutions, from immigration to respect for human rights, and above all respect for the freedom of expression of journalists. there is no doubt that turkey is an essential partner in solving the migrant crisis, but at the same time it is necessary to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are fully respected. in addition, in this resolution the european parliament wishes to strongly condemn the intimidation of the media environment and i agree to express my deep concern at the deterioration over the last two years of the situation regarding freedom of speech, expression and opinion in the country. it is essential for turkey to fully align itself with european values, principles and criteria in order to continue on the path of european integration: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ whereas in 2005 the commission opened negotiations for the accession of turkey to the european union; whereas, pursuant to article 49 of the treaty on european union, any european state which respects and is committed to promoting the values of the eu may apply for membership and, to this end, turkey has already embarked on the path of economic and democratic reforms in order to align itself with the principles and values on which the european union is founded; whereas, however, many fundamental freedoms are still not guaranteed in the country and there is, on the contrary, a decline in respect for democracy; whereas, moreover, turkey has seen its security and territorial stability seriously undermined in recent weeks; whereas, finally, an agreement between the eu and the turkish government on the migrant crisis has recently been concluded; finally, considering that, on the basis of the comments made so far, greater eu-turkey cooperation is needed, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's 2015 report on turkey and the advancement of the rule of law in this country is currently in a delicate situation. parliament cannot help but point out the serious shortcomings that still exist in turkey as regards respect for fundamental human rights, particularly those of minorities, freedom of the media and the independence of the judiciary. on the other hand, turkey is now undeniably a strategic partner of the european union in addressing the migration crisis that has been going on for several years and that led to the important agreement of 2016. the agreement now provides for a management of the migratory flows to europe which europe alone would not be able to cope with. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it strikes the right balance between the issues that dominate the panorama of eu-turkey relations today, urging the government in ankara to become aware of its democratic deficit and demanding that progress in cooperation and bilateral relations between the two countries be conditional on compliance with the conditions set by europe in this regard.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a key strategic partner for the european union. i believe that it is mutually beneficial to intensify political dialogue between the european union and turkey on foreign and security policy, the fight against terrorism and the management of migration flows. the threat of daesh and terrorism is a common threat which can be best and most rapidly defeated if we tackle it together. the agreement signed between the european union and turkey on migration is a first step towards joint management of borders and migration flows, but much remains to be done. the defence of human rights, the protection of minorities and the maintenance of the rule of law cannot be put on the back burner. we can do a lot together, but we must commit ourselves to each other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2015 report on turkey. the report highlights that concrete and credible negotiations can lay the foundations for the full exploitation of eu-turkey relations. i am convinced that cooperation with turkey on migration should not be linked to the accession negotiations and that a more structured and frequent political dialogue is needed.
in writing. ‒ the recent agreement concluded by the european council with turkey has been supported by parliament but raises some important issues. on the one hand, turkey's strategic role in addressing the refugee crisis is undeniable, considering that it took in two million and 700 thousand syrians in 2015 alone. the socialist and democratic group, on the other hand, is concerned about the current political situation in turkey, where freedom of expression and the press are not fully guaranteed and the kurdish conflict remains unresolved, and the consequent opportunity to conclude political agreements with it. i therefore voted in favour of the report by my socialist colleague, mrs kati piri, in line with the group. this report commits the european institutions to monitoring the state of democracy in turkey and to working for a ceasefire on the kurdish border. only if fundamental human rights are respected will it be possible to open negotiations for turkey's integration into the framework of european unification.
in writing. ‒ albania submitted its application for membership of the european union in 2009, although it was already officially recognised by the european commission as a potential candidate. the 2015 report on albania certainly highlights the efforts and improvements made by the country, such as increased cooperation between government and opposition and the adoption of a law banning convicted persons from political office. the report also highlights important critical points, particularly in relation to the necessary reform of the judicial system and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the albanian system still needs to be improved to european standards. i would have voted in favour, given the analysis and criticism that has been made in the report.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, alongside nato membership, the republic of albania applied for membership of the european union following the broad support of albanian political forces, and public opinion, for the european integration process. during these years, the country has made considerable efforts in the reform process, which have been embodied in plans and strategies for the reform of the public administration and the management of public finances. i voted in favour of the 2015 report on albania because i believe it is crucial to support its path of change and strengthening of the democratic system. corruption remains one of the country's major problems, but the government and the opposition have initiated effective measures that can be translated into a systematic reform of the judicial system, aimed at strengthening the independence of the authorities and cooperation between them. more efforts are needed in the area of the protection of minors, the creation of adequate environmental legislation and the tackling of gender inequalities, but the republic of albania appears to be positively moving towards future eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i can only congratulate albania on its commitment to combating the spread of islamist terrorism. i support the rapporteur's recommendation that the country should be more ready to share its information with the eu member states. however, the sharing of the fight against terrorism cannot be and cannot be called upon as a precondition for yet another enlargement of the eu. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the progress made by albania in the areas of the rule of law, judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and fundamental rights is extremely positive and that the government and the political and ruling class of the country should be encouraged and supported by the union to continue along this path.
in writing. ‒ albania has made important and steady progress in recent months towards future membership of the european union. in this respect, important progress has been made or is expected in many key areas: the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a new legislative proposal on the basis of the new legislation. however, in order to effectively launch accession negotiations, the reform process must be encouraged and extended to all those areas where albania still has significant reform limitations or difficulties. the current shortcomings in the functioning of the judicial system must be addressed by promoting greater independence and transparency of the judiciary, by firmly combating corruption, the frequent mistreatment of suspects by the police, sexual discrimination, drug trafficking and organised crime, and by encouraging the creation of effective integration programmes capable of reducing high unemployment, particularly among young people.
in writing. ‒ albania is undergoing necessary political and administrative reforms, but they have not yet reached a stage where eu accession negotiations could begin. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on albania today because by granting albania candidate country status, the progress made by tirana in recent years has been recognised, but reforms in some key areas will have to continue. the country is in a period of high political tension. the european union is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. the government and the opposition must enter into a political dialogue in parliament. increasing cooperation between the parties remains essential for the implementation of a sustainable reform process. today the situation in albania has changed profoundly. the real challenge for albania is to facilitate the country's path towards greater economic and social stability.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the dialogue between the european union and albania by highlighting areas where improvement is needed and therefore where more resources need to be invested. it is my task to try to reduce as much as possible the distances not only between the institutions and the individual member states but also with the other countries that are close to us. we must not forget that such dialogues can lead to opportunities for mutual growth and development, and that is why i have spoken in favour of them. i am firmly convinced that sustainable cooperation between the government and the opposition in parliament is essential for albania's eu accession process and for the fulfilment of the accession criteria. i also fully agree with the importance of their honouring their commitment to building a democratic political culture which includes openness to dialogue, negotiation and compromise.
in writing. ‒ i am against it because i am not in favour of further enlargements of the european union, especially for countries which still show considerable differences on certain issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution of the european parliament, tabled following statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 of the rules of procedure on the 2015 report on albania. the small country on the adriatic has made important and steady progress towards joining the european union in recent years, although there are still many challenges and problems to be solved as quickly and effectively as possible. the formal opening of eu accession negotiations requires albania to demonstrate that it is able to implement an effective and efficient legal framework and to pursue reforms, which are the necessary means of modernising the country. i share the need to guarantee freedom of the media and the protection of journalists who are doing their job and who have sometimes been subject to threats and attacks, as well as full respect for human rights and democratic principles. finally, i welcome albania's efforts to improve relations with serbia and to promote cooperation and stability in the whole region, so as to establish stable good neighbourly relations.
in writing. ‒ on the proposal by the rapporteur, knut fleckenstein, i would like to vote in favour, as albania has already made important progress in the reforms required for its eu accession. nevertheless, further progress is desirable, especially in the public administration and the judiciary. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights, and cooperation between all albanian political parties should be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ albania has made steady progress on the path to eu accession in relation to reforms on key priorities required for the start of negotiations. albania has committed to a comprehensive and thorough reform of the judiciary and public administration 2015-2020, to the reform strategy of public financial management 2014-2020 and to the fight against corruption and organised crime. it has also made a strong commitment to combating radicalisation and terrorism and to adopting security strategies. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on albania. the report examines albania's european integration process, highlighting the progress made towards the start of accession negotiations. however, further reforms are needed, especially in the legal system. it is important that the albanian government proceeds with these reforms and supports a european perspective. i am firmly convinced that the opening of accession negotiations as soon as possible will be a tangible incentive to improve the country's situation.
in writing. ‒ in june 2008, the eu and bosnia and herzegovina concluded the stabilisation and association agreement, completing the first step in the process of european integration. respect for the fundamental values and principles enshrined in the treaties and european legislation is an essential condition for membership of the union. the bosnian system unfortunately still has important shortcomings in several areas, such as political instability, reduced protection of fundamental freedoms and finally the unfair judicial system. the report, however, seems to deny the referendum in republika srpska a priori and, in my view, without good reason, focusing instead on compliance with the trade commitments made. i would have abstained, hoping that the report presented would be improved in the future, perhaps with more attention to the importance of the referendum as a free expression of the right of self-determination of peoples.
in writing. ‒ twenty years after the end of the terrible conflict in bosnia and herzegovina, the launch of the country's eu accession process is an important moment, both politically and symbolically. my support for the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina is motivated by the awareness of the importance of the challenge that this request represents. it is an objective fact that the process under way in strengthening the rule of law and democracy is a powerful engine for improvement and development. as the report has rightly pointed out, bosnia, while still having strong polarizing and secessionist tendencies within it, has committed itself to a serious political dialogue to achieve those constitutional, political and legal reforms which would make the institutional system more solid. economic problems, organised crime and corruption remain serious issues that need to be addressed, but this can no doubt be done more effectively by increasing cooperation and links between the eu and the balkan country.
in writing. ‒ the european union should not interfere in the internal affairs of third countries, such as the holding of a referendum in the republic of bosnia and herzegovina. the people of this country have the right to express themselves freely without unfair pressure from the european union. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the european union and its member states make an effort to support and help bosnia and herzegovina in its reform process so that it can achieve satisfactory standards of democracy and the rule of law and, one day, become an eu member.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions must continue to encourage the reform process in bosnia and herzegovina for the future accession of the balkan country to the eu, as an important driver of stability and national territorial cohesion. some reforms aimed at facilitating future accession and harmonising national legislation with the acquis communautaire have already been implemented (think for example of the establishment of a national coordination mechanism on eu-related issues or the adoption of the negotiating position for the adaptation of the saa) or are in the pipeline. however, this process must be intensified and extended to all those areas which still present important elements of incompatibility with the prospect of future accession. i am thinking in particular of the pressing need to guarantee pluralism and freedom of the media, the urgency of the effective implementation of all echr judgments, as well as the adoption of reforms to reduce corruption and ensure the development of an efficient, transparent and independent judicial system. particular attention should also be paid to monitoring worrying phenomena such as the high presence of foreign fighters and firearms on bosnian territory, as well as a widespread and dangerous nationalist rhetoric which could undermine the security and stability of the region.
in writing. - i vote against it. the resolution calls on the council to consider bosnia-herzegovina's accession to the eu as soon as possible. the resolution condemns the idea of holding a referendum in bosnia-herzegovina because, it says, this challenges the country's cohesion, sovereignty and integrity. the negative vote is also due to my substantial opposition to further enlargement of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina because after years of continuous postponement, something is moving. the country has formally applied for membership of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in a country that has never ceased to feel european, europe is seen as the best solution to rebuild a disastrous economy, weakened by hasty privatizations and youth unemployment of nearly 60%. our role must be to facilitate this process of european integration and at the same time to call for the systemic and socioeconomic reforms needed to continue on the path of change and convergence towards european standards to be tackled decisively and directly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, like the previous ones, it seeks to establish a dialogue with one of the countries neighbouring our union, which could also become a member in the future. it is therefore our task to try to bring bosnia and herzegovina as close as possible to respect for our values. with this vote i wanted to support a more inclusive union that is more involved in the issues of the day, even if they do not directly affect it, and i wanted to stress the need to bring about changes that guarantee a rule of law that promotes values such as equality and democratic representation. i am convinced that the establishment of such stable and effective cooperation links can only bring economic and social benefits to both sides.
in writing. ‒ i am against it because i am not in favour of new and immediate enlargements of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following statements by the council and the commission under rule 123 of the rules of procedure on the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina because i am firmly convinced of the need to integrate the balkan country into the european context. bosnia and herzegovina is currently a potential candidate for accession to the european union and to secure full candidate status it is necessary to insist on the path of constitutional, legal and political reforms. despite some improvements, however, many critical issues remain, such as the social, religious and political tensions within the bosnian community, which are certainly not helping the process of reconciliation of society after the dramatic civil war in the 1990s. corruption at all levels also continues to be a major concern, firstly because of its prevalence, including in high-level offices, and the weakness of the legal framework is manifested in the politicization of the appointment of judges. finally, i would stress the need to strengthen the institutional framework for the protection and respect of human rights and democratic principles, to guarantee freedom of expression and religious belief and to protect the rights of disabled people, ethnic minorities and lgbti people.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the proposal by mr cristian dan preda, i would vote in favour. the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina, together with the application for accession submitted by the government in sarajevo last february, testify to the eu's willingness to promote the involvement of bosnia and herzegovina in a european perspective. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of bosnia-herzegovina. i would therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. the report highlights the positive progress made by the country and encourages the government to step up reforms. i am strongly in favour of the opening of accession negotiations by bosnia and herzegovina, which represents a unique opportunity for the country to be united under a common objective. nevertheless, the negotiation process will be long and will require a sustained commitment to implement the necessary reforms. for this reason, the country's political leaders must work together constructively to meet europe's requirements.
in writing. ‒ the eu is moving further and further away from the poverty reduction target set by the europe 2020 strategy and the report as a whole presents positive aspects for achieving this poverty reduction target in the light of the increase in household expenditure. i agree that the way forward is to reduce the main expenditure on private consumption by poor households by directing existing projects on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency to households exposed to energy insecurity. i am in favour of introducing a minimum income to guarantee a decent life for all european citizens and also of recognising the right to clean drinking water as a fundamental right. in view of this, i would have voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of the international economic crisis has had a profound impact on the economic and social conditions of european households. the contraction of incomes, the rise in unemployment and the rise in the prices of basic goods and services have led to a downward movement that has brought an impressive number of citizens into the social risk bracket: 122.6 million people. the europe 2020 strategy adopted by the union set itself the strategic objective of reducing by 20 million by 2020 the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion on our continent, but this objective requires adaptation to new conditions. the commission and the member states must take extraordinary action to put in place all the measures necessary to deal with the scale of the problem. the development of new housing policies, more effective energy policies, the introduction of sustainable pension systems and minimum income systems can be appropriate tools to combat a challenge of this magnitude. although i was unable to vote because of a technical problem with the recording, i did say that i would support the meszerics report.
in writing. ‒ 22 million unemployed, 17 of them in the euro area, 5 million newly poor and almost 22 million households struggling to heat their homes. while the commission predicted in 2010 that it would be able to solve the problem of poverty in five years, the data show an increase in the number of european citizens in difficulty. while there are some positive elements, the report as a whole points to the same recipe that created the problems, the eu, as the antidote to the present problems. for all these reasons, we must not support the text, with an abstention.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the number of europeans at risk of poverty and those suffering from severe material deprivation has been increasing alarmingly and continuously, as a result of the economic crisis that began in 2008, putting at serious risk the achievement of the ambitious target of 20 million people lifted out of poverty under the horizon 2020 strategy. in order to respond adequately to this crisis situation and to ensure that the commission's intention to have a 'triple a social' does not remain a dead letter, it is necessary to revive the debate as soon as possible on the possible adoption of a framework directive on the introduction of an adequate minimum income above the poverty threshold and on the introduction of new forms of taxation of large energy-intensive industries in order to find new resources to finance more effective measures to combat poverty, while discouraging energy inefficiency. in this connection, particular attention should also be paid to people, often elderly or young, who are in precarious situations, for example by promoting, as the motion for a resolution in question proposes, a moratorium on cutting off heating in the winter months, by facilitating the use of cross-financing mechanisms between the various european funds.
in writing. - i abstained. 5 million newly poor, 22 million unemployed of whom 17 belong to the eurozone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the text, insisting on assistance measures to be introduced always and above all for the benefit of the vulnerable categories according to the community dogma, that is not all citizens, but only roma, refugees, migrants, etc., invokes as a paradoxical solution to solve those disadvantages that the eu itself has created, the usual recipe of "more europe", even calling for greater mandatory involvement of the eu in the social policies of the eurozone countries. the fight against poverty, understood as the eradication of a chronic and structural problem which strongly affects the future of the younger generations, many of whom are already 'lost', requires above all economic intervention capable of having a positive impact in the medium and long term. this is why we need measures to increase the supply of jobs and the income from work in the eu, we need to boost the competitiveness of our production system, we need to abandon the euro immediately and we need to support in every way the convergence between training and the labour market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the achievement of the poverty reduction target in the light of the increase in household expenditure, because in europe there are 17 countries where more than a fifth of the population is poor, 43 million european citizens, including many children who cannot count on the necessary nutrition on a daily basis. i am very concerned about the commission's assessment that the 2020 poverty target "seems out of reach. instead, efforts are needed to put in place an integrated eu poverty reduction strategy based on objective indicators and with a clear timetable for implementation to ensure that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are met.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has gradually increased in most member states. in 2014, one in four people living in the eu was at serious risk of poverty, and the most at risk groups were women, children, young people with low levels of education and migrants. the economic crisis is undoubtedly the cause of the increase in poverty, and the resulting austerity policies have certainly not helped the already difficult recovery. the commitment of the member states and the commission must be unequivocal: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. it is not conceivable, nor is it acceptable, that there should be many families in europe who are unable to meet the costs of heating their homes. the social dimension is also needed in energy policy: the union's fight against poverty and poverty also involves reducing expenditure on energy consumption, which is the most important item in the household budget. investments in energy-efficient housing and public buildings and the development of renewable sources should be a priority for the member states and the commission. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report is a clear example of a policy to combat poverty, which is why i voted in favour of it. the data presented to us today are alarming and i therefore believe that a concrete political response is needed as soon as possible. this report lays the foundations for this, focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency for households exposed to energy insecurity. it also seeks to redirect funds to the most vulnerable households with the further aim of removing barriers to access to these resources. it is clear that energy and consumer price policies can have an impact on poverty, particularly in disadvantaged groups, and i therefore believe that cooperation by all member states is needed to move towards the objectives highlighted in this report.
in writing. ‒ i consider the objective of fighting poverty to be a top priority for all member states, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. in recent years, the rising cost of living, the economic crisis and youth unemployment have created favourable conditions for the proliferation of poverty in all its forms and a vicious circle from which it is increasingly difficult to break out. in particular, it is clear that high housing costs in the presence of low incomes and, at the same time, the not always guaranteed right of access to healthy housing are issues that have a negative impact on the lives of european citizens and on the economic recovery in the member states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of a european strategy to end poverty, energy poverty and social exclusion, combining the commission's action, diversified according to the specific socioeconomic contexts of each member state, with action by the member states to make more effective use of european funds and to ensure the continuity of social services such as minimum income schemes, reduction of household energy costs and equitable access to adequate housing and health care.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite some clear and positive points, there is no evidence in other parts of the report of effective measures to combat the increase in poverty and unemployment.
in writing. i have expressed my favourable opinion on this proposal after having successfully reached compromises on some points which created disagreements between the different groups. the noble proposal sets out to consider how energy policies and consumer prices can have a positive impact on poverty and the most disadvantaged households. in view of the increasing share of energy poverty and in the light of the union's role in providing effective and sustainable solutions to alleviate the most vulnerable consumers, it seems appropriate and essential to create a system that makes all energy costs accessible. the aid to families in difficulty must be a priority of our political action, both as income support and as consumer relief. i therefore supported this report and its commitment to a serious fight against poverty.
in writing. ‒ we welcome with great interest and full agreement the meszerics report, whose main objective is to combat poverty by bringing social policy and energy policy closer together in the european debate. given that inequalities in the european union are increasing, mainly due to the crisis and the risk that a european citizen may be exposed to risks of poverty, it is clear that adequate countermeasures must be found in a short time. we therefore believe that the proposal to introduce a reference framework on minimum income and an improvement in social labour rights are necessary tools to enable the european union to make progress in its social commitment. we also believe that reducing family expenditure through better targeting of funds to the most vulnerable families and the removal of barriers to access to resources is necessary to reduce the level of poverty. we are confident that better targeting of eu funds to households in energy-insecure conditions can be the key to achieving this goal faster. the proposal introduces the concept of a european moratorium on the suspension of heating services during the winter months, to protect households in the most difficult situation because of energy shortages or at risk of interruption of heating due to non-payment of bills.
in writing. ‒ considering that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, enshrined in article 5 of the tfeu, are fundamental principles of the european union, that the necessary increased involvement of the member states in the definition of european policies must always be in line with these principles, and that in some cases the definition of these principles and the allocation of competences between the member states and the eu is a source of confusion, and that increased dialogue between national parliaments and the european institutions can contribute to the respect of these principles and reduce the use of the so-called 'yellow card', i would like to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the level of poverty in europe is intolerably high. between 2008 and 2013, as a result of the economic crisis and the austerity policies that followed, the number of poor people in the european union rose from 117 million to more than 122 million. poor families spend a large part of their income on housing, bills, and food. according to european union statistics, in 2015, 10% of citizens had bills that were not paid and in 2014, 12% were unable to heat their homes properly, while 16% lived in damp accommodation due to water infiltration. in this situation, with house prices continuing to rise, the eu needs to do much more if it is to achieve its poverty reduction targets. in particular, member states should focus more on energy efficiency projects (which italy is already doing) to help disadvantaged households and, at the same time, promote models of environmental sustainability. another equally important measure envisaged in the report is the approval of a winter moratorium to avoid cuts in the supply of energy to households in difficulty. finally, i am also in favour of the creation of a european energy observatory.
in writing. ‒ social policy and energy policy should be closely linked. the european union is moving further and further away from the poverty reduction target set by the europe 2020 strategy. reducing the main expenditure of poor households for private consumption by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects to households affected by energy poverty. increasing the income of the poorest households is the basis for a robust and lasting economic recovery. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the number of women living in poverty is 12 million more than that of men and that throughout the union women and the children they care for are disproportionately exposed to the risk of poverty or social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report on the fight against poverty to be fundamental. since the start of the crisis, the number of people living in poverty in europe has increased from 117 million to 122 million. these large-scale data are also reflected in a small way in my hometown, padua: for example, in the last two years, the number of caritas users has increased by 39%. fighting poverty is a political commitment. i therefore took an active part in drafting the text, which was tabled by my colleague from the s&d group, ruza tomasic, and i tabled a number of amendments. i would particularly like to stress the importance of the articles on housing, which call on the member states and the european institutions to put forward concrete proposals to solve the serious problem of public housing. in fact, too many families today live in uncomfortable conditions because of homes that are too small or unhealthy. the socialist and democratic group will ensure that these commitments are respected both at european level and in the various member states.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses one of the key issues in development policy: the role of the private sector in the framework of those policies. we believe that this report is grossly unbalanced in favour of the private sector and corporate profit, which is described as the panacea for all ills. this view of the economy also affects sectors such as essential public services. i would have voted against because these positions are incompatible with our political programme.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the deva report on the private sector and development. this is an important text which effectively underlines the strong and positive link between public investment, private investment and development in many international contexts. the full implementation of the new sustainable development goals, presented by the united nations in 2015, is an important test case for how a virtuous partnership between public and private entities can ensure a reduction in the poverty rate and positive growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. the european union can do a lot in this context thanks to the experience it has gained over the years in supporting the business world. the launch of public-private partnerships at local and regional level in the agri-food sector, in training programmes and in occupational health care can be a model for many poor countries embarking on the path of development. through its experience, the eu can play a key facilitating and mediating role in many contexts, by providing appropriate sectoral and multilateral platforms that, involving ngos, governments, business and civil society, can overcome the unintended difficulties that can arise in collaboration between different realities.
in writing. ‒ the report on the private sector and development, while not resulting in any fully agreeable steps, is overall not very transparent. the role, competences and powers of the various key players in projects of interest to our territories are not fully defined. for this and other unclear reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights several aspects, some of which are also shared, of the importance of the private sector in eu development and cooperation initiatives and projects; the transition to agriculture (with specific reference to the preventive involvement of the resident population) and the development of social services is largely sustainable. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank (eib) is too 'general', and the arrangements for involving the eib (european investment bank) whose actual activity has not been widely reported, and the call for cooperation from the developing countries, which is still too weak. however, since the necessary assumption on the balance of current activities (which is mentioned in the introduction) is lacking, which could justify a new impetus in the field of private sector involvement, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to ensure that the private sector plays a more prominent role in development cooperation. i welcome the commission's initiative to support the private sector in becoming, together with other governmental and non-governmental development organisations and inclusive business models such as cooperative and social enterprises, an important partner in achieving inclusive and sustainable development in the framework of the united nations millennium development goals, which requires a commitment by the private sector to good governance, poverty reduction and wealth creation through sustainable investment, as well as reducing inequalities, promoting human rights and environmental standards and empowering local economies. i stress the need to examine how the private sector can be further involved in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, to help create economic growth and jobs in europe's neighbourhood, for example through access to capital. i believe that the public and private sectors are most efficient when they work together to create a healthy environment for investment and business activity and lay the foundations for economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i could not agree more with the content of this report, especially since i am aware of the importance of the private sector for the development of third countries and its many benefits in a wide range of sectors (from employment to agricultural production), making it an essential partner in the fight against poverty. the aim of this report is to establish a framework for action to give the private sector in developing countries a stronger role and to make it a more active player in the economic and social growth of these countries. i am therefore in full agreement with this, especially when the premises of this document are to aim at inclusive growth and to create decent employment. i believe that involving the european and international business sector is the fundamental prerequisite for achieving sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the public sector now provides a significant part of the aid granted to promote sustainable economies in developing countries. however, in these countries the private sector accounts for 90% of jobs and the same percentage of wages. thus, while government intervention remains an important tool of development policy, the role of the private sector should be further considered. for example, in these countries, it would be useful to promote partnerships based on cooperation between private and public actors. however, although private actors have played and continue to play a key role in the economies of these countries, they should ensure an environmentally sustainable economic model and one that promotes the economic empowerment of women. the european parliament's resolution on the private sector and development recognises and encourages the role of private actors in development policy, but also sets out the conditions for greater coordination with private actors. i think that these recommendations are important and i voted in favour of the resolution on the private sector and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of a more decisive role for the private sector in the growth of developing countries. there is not a single significant development project in the world today that is not consulted and worked with private investors. moreover, recent estimates clearly show that private sector investment in developing countries often achieves high rates of return on energy and transport projects. in particular, there is tremendous potential in engaging the private sector in developing market-based solutions to agricultural challenges and food security, such as training local farmers to improve farming techniques, increasing their access to finance. i believe that supporting the private sector is a winning development strategy for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite some positive points, there are only weak calls and plans for the future.
in writing. having reached compromises on certain points in the resolution, i support the system proposed by the commission to promote the private sector in developing countries. today, 90% of jobs in these countries are provided by private individuals who contribute to the sustainable growth of the country, thus making it possible to fight poverty. for the reasons mentioned above, the private sector continues to grow by creating agreements with governments, sponsors and non-governmental organizations (ngos). the commission's efforts so far have been positive, and i therefore support the implementation of new, more strategic projects that will help create jobs and promote inclusive and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the private sector and development. the european union must be able to stimulate more private investment in the community economy. this is because there is already a lack of public investment and the involvement of the private sector seems to be the most appropriate solution. the european commission, led by president juncker, launched a strategic investment fund in 2014 which, as early as 2015, was able to generate a significant leverage effect, thus increasing the amount of investment in the union. the capacity of investment, especially in manufacturing, to reduce market-related poverty by creating employment and welfare among working citizens is also well known. in the coming decades, the growth of the global population and the rise in income in today's developing countries will generate greater demands for food, water and energy. for this reason, it is necessary for community actors to concentrate part of their investments in developing countries, where, although greater volatility and uncertainty remain, returns on capital are surprisingly high and guarantee well-being and employment for indigenous peoples, especially if they are geared to the creation of sustainable wealth.
in writing. ‒ considering that population growth in developing countries will require more investment in development support in the coming years, considering that, according to some estimates, private sector investment in pvs is often associated with high rates of return, considering also that the involvement of private investors in agricultural development could be a stimulus for the development of farming techniques, encourage employment and promote sustainable development, considering, finally, that greater public-private partnership can be beneficial for these countries, i would like to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the private sector provides 90% of jobs in developing countries and is therefore a key partner in the fight against poverty and hunger. the report sets out a strategic framework to ensure that investments made by private enterprises benefit all of society, in particular women, young people and the disadvantaged. the priority of investment must therefore be to create lasting jobs, especially for the weakest sections of society, and to promote the gradual transition from an informal to a formal economy. by ensuring a more favourable and secure environment for businesses, they will be able to invest more and more responsibly and everyone will be able to benefit from the economic opportunities created by the private sector. i voted in favour of this report because only by making the private sector an active partner in development cooperation will the european union be able to live up to its commitment to promoting justice and peace in the world.
in writing. ‒ the european union must work to promote a sustainable economy in the world to ensure the development of a more equitable and democratic society. particular attention should be paid to the cooperative model, which has always promoted a careful and respectful economy of the territories in which the members make the enterprise live. the cooperative movement plays an active part in the development cooperation process and we cannot ignore it. sustainable development must be promoted and supported, while respecting local customs and traditions in the areas of credit, food, rural, agri-food, fisheries, environment, aquaculture and social services.
the next few months will be decisive for the process of granting china market economy status. the council of trade ministers will meet on 13 may. the esm will be on the table at the g7 in japan at the end of may and the commission will have an important discussion and orientation in july. we must have a say in this. we say that decisions which are harmful to european businesses and workers must be avoided. that is why i propose that parliament should deal with it. today, with the inclusion of the debate and resolution on the chinese esm on the agenda, parliament cannot remain silent on a matter which is likely to harm thousands and thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of jobs.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, we are absolutely in favour of this, because we have made the same request and you know that. the reasons are the same as those put forward by mr pittella and we therefore expect the other groups to support this request.
mr president, i would like to say that i support mr lambert's proposal, provided that the decision and the vote on the resolution is taken before these meetings and not afterwards. so if it is held in strasbourg, let it be a debate with resolutions. we're not looking for headlines, nor are we looking for propaganda: we simply want to solve problems, and problems are solved if parliament is involved, not if parliament says nothing and votes nothing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too agree with the green group's proposal. the reasons are the same as those of mr pittella, and they are in full agreement.
mr president, i was talking about the strasbourg round. it does not have to be today, provided that a resolution is adopted in strasbourg. then we can start the debate today or we can do it in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that the debate and the resolution should be held together in strasbourg.
mr president, if that is the case, let us at least have the debate today and then we will table the resolution in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a point of order. i would like to draw your attention, and that of my colleagues, to rule 22 and rule 141 of our rules of procedure, which state that the president has the duty to safeguard the role and prerogatives of our assembly in all aspects of political life, and even more so in interinstitutional relations. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be debating the declaration between the eu and turkey of last march for the umpteenth time. we shall simply debate this, because our institution has been denied not only the right but also the duty to express its political will and responsibility. this statement is such in name only; the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. it is therefore an international agreement in all respects and, as such, subject to the approval procedure under article 218 tfeu. our vote is therefore not only obligatory but also binding, and that is why i propose that all members, and especially you, the president, support our request for an action for annulment before the court of justice. in the name of democracy, we are defending the rights of 508 million european citizens.
president of the european investment bank. – mr president, it is a pleasure and an honour to be back at parliament and to report to you about the annual report for 2014 and to respond to the remarks by the rapporteur, mr pirinski, whom i thank for his great work and very good, close cooperation with the services of the bank and myself. having said this, let me start by expressing my appreciation for the support you, as the european parliament, give us to ensure that the eu bank will continue to deliver benefits for the eu economy and for eu citizens, as well as contribute to common european objectives in our external activities. let me recap on what we have achieved since 2014, the year under review. our plans were ambitious both in form and substance. higher volumes of traditional lending and advising activities were and are still needed to make an imperative contribution to european goals and to respect the eib’s ongoing responsibilities as the eu bank. at the same time the eu bank took upon itself an unprecedented challenge and gladly accepted to play a central role in the investment plan for europe, a role which required a quantum change in the business, in the bank’s business profile, for some years to come. after the crisis began in 2007, we increased our lending by 60% in two years. following up with a eur 10 billion capital increase in 2012, we increased lending by eur 60 billion, supporting an extra eur 180 billion of investment not, as was foreseen, by the end of 2015 but already in march 2015. above target and ahead of time. the investment plan for europe, the juncker plan, with its three pillars, is another exceptional response to exceptional needs. negotiations between the council, parliament and the commission to finalise the regulation were concluded in may last year. that was in record time and we are very grateful for that. the plan consists, of course, of three elements. we only talk about one normally – the efsi, the european fund for strategic investments – backed by a eur 16 billion eu budget guarantee and eur 5 billion of cash from the european investment bank in order to increase the risk-taking capacity of the eib group. i take it from the rapporteur that we do indeed have an obligation to demonstrate that, with this additional manoeuvre space, we are targeting investments which make a difference and which are additional to what we would have been able to do, at least on this scale, under normal circumstances. and i think we can prove that. then of course we have the enhancement of our advisory capacities within the framework of the european advisory hub, and the third pillar is all about removing barriers to investment and structural reforms. let me take the opportunity to update you. so far the eib group, that is both the eib and the european investment fund (which supports smaller businesses) has approved through efsi financing an amount of eur 11.2 billion to more than 220 projects in 25 member states, which will trigger an overall additional investment in europe of over eur 82.1 billion. in other words, although the institutional setup was only completed at the beginning of this year, we have also done more than 25% of the volumes we have promised within three years. so you can see that the pace of our delivery has taken up speed. very importantly, the advisory hub is also proving to be a successful initiative, having as of march 2016 received and processed 108 requests, of which 87 are project-specific. simultaneously a network of partner institutions keen to work in cooperation with the hub is being established across the eu. fifteen memoranda of understanding have been signed with the national promotion institutions, with an additional seven in the pipeline. the investment plan for europe is important for our economy but europe also has global responsibilities and the council, the commission and sometimes parliament remind us of that as well. we need to ensure that in future the eu bank will have the necessary personnel and financial resources, instruments and platforms to support eu external policy and development efforts, all the way to climate policies in particular. while eu member states already provide considerable official development assistance to the nations, the challenges in the developing world need a more coordinated approach and the financial instruments that we use to leverage private capital within the european union every day. as such i foresee a situation where we will reach the limits of the bank’s current 10% level for activities outside the european union. first among these current pressing issues is the eib’s response to the refugee crisis and how the eib can contribute beyond what is already being done both in europe and in the region of the middle east and north africa. we have proposed to our board that the eib could do more both in europe, to finance the infrastructure needed to cope with the new arrivals, and outside europe, on private sector development in countries of origin and transit. we are currently actively working on concrete proposals that will be presented to the european council in june, as we have been asked to do. we also look forward to continuing our very close cooperation with the commission in this crucial effort. a final word about our parliamentary responsibility, our responsibility vis-à-vis parliament: for me, as a parliamentary veteran of 25 years, it goes without saying that europe’s citizens expect and deserve parliamentary oversight for their bank. therefore it goes without saying that i am ready, just like my colleagues are, to report to parliament and its committees and parliamentary groups when you so wish. your bank, the eu bank, is nowadays the world’s biggest international financial institution in terms of lending volume, operating in many different sectors in parts of the world. over past years we have been delivering approximately eur 70 to 80 billion a year of investments in sound and sustainable projects, mostly inside the eu and increasingly also in our partner countries. we will continue to do so, including by using the additional firepower under efsi, because we have to address the huge investment needs. the last year has been particularly intense and challenging, with the eib under sharp scrutiny because what we do matters, and people and parliaments care. the message we get from your report is one of support, encouragement and urgency, and i take the remarks also on transparency, the remarks on ncj policies, very seriously and i think we will report to the relevant committees separately on this very issue. let me assure you that we are willing to live up fully to our institutional responsibilities and will continue to exchange with you regularly on our activities and their impact on the ground. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, mr president of the eib, mr werner hoyer, ladies and gentlemen, the issue at stake in our discussion today is a number. investment in europe is 15% below the pre-crisis level. the european union must urgently address this deficit in order to return to more robust growth and to strengthen its global competitiveness. this is the whole point of the investment plan for europe. your report rightly emphasises the role of the eib - our bank, the bank of europeans - as a catalyst for investment on our continent and, by extension, its support for the economic recovery which you have welcomed. of course, we share and i personally share that appreciation. the investment plan has seen a real upswing in the last few months since the entry into force of the efsi regulation less than a year ago. the number of projects, their geographical coverage and their sectoral distribution have been steadily increasing. i mean here that the eib group and the eib itself, the european investment fund have approved over 200 operations benefiting from the efsi guarantee in 25 member states. these projects are already expected to generate - and i am sure that the figure i have already given has already been exceeded - more than 82 billion in investment, or more than a quarter of the overall objective of the plan, which is to be achieved in three years. so that's a good rhythm. the aim is to increase coverage of countries and sectors. your report is an opportunity to review in more detail this increase in capacity and the progress being made. i shall concentrate in particular in this introductory speech on three of the aspects detailed in your work, namely sme support, tax aspects and external actions. first, a word on the operational side. the commission is currently building an e-portal on european investment projects designed to be easy to use. this portal will provide investment projects with visibility to potential international investors. the eib has also developed a european investment advisory platform, which has been operational since september 2015, in collaboration with the eib, and which offers project promoters a single entry point for technical assistance or advice. your report goes into great detail about the role of smes, the main source of growth and employment in europe. three brief remarks on this subject. first, a quarter of new investment generated by the efsi will benefit smes and mid-sized enterprises. in concrete terms, we are talking about 75 billion euros over three years. this means that this plan is not a 'large enterprise' or 'infrastructure' plan, but a plan which is directed at the whole european economy. under the sme strand of the efsi - this is my second reflection - access to finance for smes has improved significantly through tools such as cosme, innovfin, and more recently the guarantee facility of the eu programme for employment and social innovation. the eib's mandate for venture capital has also been extended. in total, and this is my third reflection, 125 operations had been signed by the eif under the sme-efsi strand by the end of march 2016. more than 122 000 smes and medium-sized enterprises in 19 member states are expected to benefit. again, the same characteristics are found: wide geographical and sectoral coverage. i should like to say a few words about a subject which is particularly close to my heart and which your report touches on, namely the tax aspect. as you know, in january 2016 the commission adopted a new anti-tax evasion package, which contains proposals for stronger action at union level against tax fraud and tax evasion. in this context, the commission is closely following the ongoing developments in the eib's policy to combat tax evasion and tax fraud. i would like to acknowledge the expertise of the eib, under the authority of president hoyer. this enables the bank to promote transparency and tax efficiency alongside the commission. the last aspect i would like to discuss in more detail concerns external action. like parliament, i welcome the renewal of the mandate for 2014-2020 with a €27 billion eu guarantee. we will prepare a mid-term evaluation report by the end of 2016 to measure the overall implementation of the current external mandate and to consider a commission proposal for an update of the parliament and council decision on the external mandate. in particular, it will be necessary to assess the coherence of this mandate with the union's external policy and the geopolitical context. the revision of the mandate will also provide an opportunity to analyse the possible activation of the optional amount of eur 3 billion. at the same time, the eib integrates its operations into a wider framework which promotes complementarities. this is particularly the case with the refugee crisis - we talk about this very often with werner - and i know the importance, the size, the role and the involvement of the eib in this matter. although we are both aware of the limits of the eib's mandate, we appreciate its willingness to take part in the development of community resources, both within and outside the union. i would like to conclude by mentioning a point of methodology. the commission welcomes the approval in 2015 of the new eib transparency policy. transparency, openness and accountability are key concepts for the european union. we welcome the eib's commitment to comply with the eu's transparency initiative and to follow international best practice in this area. in total - and i mean here, in the presence of its president - i can see how much the institution is changing and how much - whatever the political intention of those who thought up the juncker plan and then launched it - it is showing itself to be able to support companies that take risks more than in the past. this is because the bulk of the investment is private. all this is under way, and it is a great achievement for europe if we succeed in completing this collective success. ladies and gentlemen, you may have noticed that our forecasts for february 2016 predict an acceleration of growth to 1.9% in 2017 for the euro area. but we also stressed - and i will repeat this next week, as we will be presenting our spring forecasts - that this acceleration would clearly be a function of a rebound in investment. investment is still the weak link in european growth. for the commission, and for europeans in general, this recovery is of paramount importance. in this sense, the juncker plan is more than a signal, it is an engine. we therefore share the determination of this house to make this recovery a reality and to make it even greater. i think that the work being done on the juncker plan is very encouraging for the europeans and for the commission, which is co-authoring it. i also want to commend the exemplary work done by the eib.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of mrs gardiazabal, the budget rapporteur on the report under discussion, and i apologize if i am not as precise and punctual as you would have been. i should like to thank mr pirinski for his excellent report. the european investment bank is of course a key asset of the european union, all the more so now that it has been entrusted with the operational side of the juncker plan. but greater power also means greater transparency and greater accountability. greater transparency means transparency for the citizens in the management and close monitoring also by parliament. careful responsibility means greater responsibility and being aware of the objectives of the european investment bank in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises, in relation to the management of the juncker plan, as has been said, but also in relation to relations and its external dimension, by acting more decisively in the areas of the world which need to be stabilized, also from an economic and financial point of view. i would like to conclude by saying that we hope that there will be ever greater cooperation between the european investment bank and the national investment banks - in the case of italy, the cassa depositi e prestiti, but of course the national investment banks in all countries. we need strong investment from the eib to get back to growth after eight years of stagnation, after eight years that have been really very mortifying for the european economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale and complexity of the tasks which the eib is called upon to carry out require a renewed commitment to the re-writing of a governance plan which strengthens it, not only as a financial institution, but also as a bank that is a source of knowledge and good practice. its ability to address member states and economic operators is an added value in the management of european funds, in order to finance projects to accelerate recovery and increase productivity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the 2014 report to include the need to increase transparency of processes and to step up technical assistance and financial advice, with the ultimate aim of ensuring that member states grow in a uniform way by ensuring that funding is equally accessible. it is regrettable that on a subject that is dear to me, such as climate action, there have been many instances of funding being used for projects that are financially unsustainable, with damage that is difficult to repair after the time has elapsed compared to ambitious environmental sustainability projects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot deny that: the eib's activities are still shadowy, starting with the leverage effect on investment. there is no transparent data, no trace of precise details. the same applies to the efsi: wait till the rabbit is pulled out of the top hat? but the magic may come at a high price if the money needed for the juncker plan is also issued by china, which, by chance, would unfortunately like to be given the status of a market economy, with deleterious effects in europe. the eib also supports a large number of credit lines for banks: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to help small and mediumsized enterprises. what financial instruments? will we not again be faced with big finance draining oxygen from the real economy? in addition, we have heard in this chamber about the circular economy, about a paradigm shift, but as long as the eib supports projects such as the tap, incinerators, gasifiers, oil refineries, there will be no real transition from fossil fuels to renewables. finally, i would like to remind you that the eib was set up almost 60 years ago to support the political objectives of the european union and that the only union that is absolutely lacking is that of the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european investment bank is the largest public bank in the world, that is to say, the largest provider of finance in the world: we're talking about 75 billion in investments. but the citizens should know that this european public bank, in which the money of 28 european member states flows, finances, as an eighth country, turkey, a country which is outside the european union. these funds, as far as we are concerned, should finance, for the most part, european projects with very high added value and which are sustainable from both a social and environmental point of view, and not those infrastructure projects which are still based on fossil fuels and resources which are not renewable. so absolutely investing more, beyond what we've already done in innovative startups and smes, because those that add the most value over time. in addition to the economic evaluations: whatever you do, you have to do with realistic perspective. we cannot afford to finance motorways without cars and trains, for example, without passengers, and therefore all the projects, such as the castor, the mestre bypass, the brebemi in milan, must be condemned because they are unsustainable projects and we must not go on that road again, especially with the new infrastructure investment programme.
in writing. the main task of the eib, the eu's bank, would be to provide financial support in the interests of the union. in 2014, it financed 285 000 smes and awarded contracts for a total of 413 projects within the eu, worth eur 69 billion, and 92 new extra-eu projects, worth eur 7,98 billion. in addition, in the same year, the eif committed eur 3.3 billion in equity investments and guarantees for small businesses. unfortunately, the eib still has some serious weaknesses: for example, it should develop stricter rules on conflicts of interest and should strengthen its control activities in order to improve information on final beneficiaries and to prevent more effectively transactions with financial intermediaries with a negative track record in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering and harmful social and environmental impacts or registered in offshore financial centres or tax havens that use aggressive tax planning practices. the eib also has a strong commitment to the development of the financial sector in the union.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that this discharge gives us the opportunity to make a more important consideration than any other in the field of transport. there are many other comments, but i shall concentrate on the specific issue of investment, which is crucial if transport policy is to move beyond the logic of the proposal and into the logic of implementation. we have a theme that is very much about the performance of this committee: the so-called juncker plan. this is a plan in which we are investing a great deal politically because it aims to bring together the investment potential of all the countries of the union, but it is also a plan which raises a great question for us as the committee on transport: the subtraction of resources from the cef, i.e. an instrument which has historically strongly favoured investment where the public-private relationship struggles to generate the necessary investment and resources. we cannot continue to take resources from the cef to places where we are not sure that the investments will go in the same direction. the case of rail transport documents this in plastic. we therefore strongly urge that these resources not be reduced any further, even though we know the inestimable value of the proposal contained in the junker plan and the efsi.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr tibor szanyi, who cannot be here today, for the excellent work done in drafting the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, which was the result of intensive discussions and excellent cooperation between the political groups. 2014 was a year of transition for the common agricultural policy between the old programming and the implementation of the new reform. and 2015 and 2016 can also be considered years when the reforms introduced will be fully implemented and there will be new, very complex rules, starting with greening, which is certainly one of the most important innovations introduced by farmers. although we have seen a reduction in the error rate compared to 2013, we believe that there are still many steps to be taken to reduce the bureaucratic burden for european farmers. the commission is already working on simplifying the cap, through delegated and implementing acts, especially in terms of controls and penalties, but we believe that the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy can be a valuable opportunity to make more effective and efficient the spending of public money on agriculture and to increase environmental benefits.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's budget contains 150 billion in assets belonging to 500 million citizens, and it is absolutely essential that we give an account of these assets in terms of results, but above all that they be fully traceable and transparent. the report calls for the publication of all financial documentation relating to european funds, both structural and direct, on infrastructure projects, which are very often useless and very costly, such as the turin-lyon and other major projects. the rules on transparency in public procurement are already very permissive, but procurement in the regions is often not transparent and regular, as the european court of auditors reports. as regards transparency in refugee funding, it is essential to avoid a lack of transparency under the pretext of the emergency and to avoid financing organised crime, fraud and speculation on this sensitive issue. transparency on the pre-accession funds: are they political bribes or real funding? we want complete and public information, for example the billions given to turkey, a country which continues to violate the rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. there is a point in this report which calls for this reflection. finally, tomorrow we will vote on a very important amendment on the transparency and publicity of scientific data analysed by efsa, the european food safety authority: we're not sure if we're eating poison or not. and i'm talking about the glyphosate case. does this europe defend the health of its citizens or the interests of monsanto? efsa should only use data that have undergone a scientific and peer review process,
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this has led to the erosion of the distinction between military and civilian objectives, and to the protection of the special status accorded to structures and personnel given the role of impartial and neutral aid they play between the parties to the conflict. i would say that it is precisely in the spirit of seeing the enemy in anyone who helps my enemy that the staff of international humanitarian organizations are often seen as targets to be hit. in recent months, there have even been cases of violations by state entities and partners of the european union: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the future of the mediterranean, and the european union has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the mediterranean. this is why, at the forthcoming summit on international humanitarian law in istanbul, it is necessary and urgent to find concrete action to activate the international community in protecting civilians and humanitarian workers at risk and those responsible for indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population and the aid areas must be identified and held accountable before special war crimes tribunals. this requires a coercive mechanism that has the ability to investigate violations of international humanitarian law. we therefore call for action at european level, for this emergency to be recognised, using all the instruments at our disposal, and we call on the council and the high representative for foreign affairs to work towards the creation, in the wake of the istanbul summit, of a permanent forum for discussion on these issues.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, targeting schools and hospitals is strictly forbidden under the rules of international humanitarian law, and bombing such objectives on purpose is universally considered a war crime. yet the international community has witnessed over the past few years a harrowing trend of attacks such as those on doctors without borders and hospitals in afghanistan, yemen and syria. i want to pay tribute to the admirable courage and dedication of humanitarian aid workers in those countries. we need immediate and effective concrete action in order to tackle these war crimes, so we need first of all to block the flow of weapons towards the belligerents. for this reason, i approve the call to high representative mogherini to launch an initiative aimed at imposing an eu arms embargo against countries that are responsible for serious breaches of international humanitarian law. the licensing of weapons sales to such countries represents a breach of the council common position of 8 december 2008. we cannot accept complicit silence.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, it is in my view evident that all eu institutions coincide in considering that respect for international humanitarian law, rules and principles is, and must remain, at the core of the union’s external action. that is why i said earlier this evening that it is crucial to stay true to our founding values. we should never forget what international law is all about: men, women children – families. in reply to mr demesmaeker, i would like to say that, like you, i deeply regret that the conference failed in adopting a new mechanism. however, we should not forget that the 28 eu member states make up only a small portion of states participating in the conference. at the 32nd international conference of the red cross and red crescent movement you referred to – as i said earlier this evening – the union reiterated its commitment to advocate strongly and consistently respect for international humanitarian law. one of the pledges made in that conference by the union and its member states regarded attacks against medical personnel or patients. the 28 eu member states have a strong voice if they join forces, but we make up only a small portion of the states participating in the conference.
in writing. the vast majority of the victims of the recent armed conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and afghanistan are innocent civilians. attacks on civilian facilities such as hospitals and schools are acts of gross negligence and violations of basic principles of humanitarian law. it is essential to deal effectively with the problem of serious violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law, which is now well known, by promoting appropriate mechanisms for accountability. i would stress the important role that the international criminal court can play in cases where the state or states concerned are unable or unwilling to exercise their jurisdiction. since the beginning of the year, 15 attacks have been reported on hospitals and medical facilities in syria alone, while amnesty estimates that 336 medical centers have been attacked since the conflict began in 2011. europe must make its voice and political weight heard. a concrete action plan with precise timetables, impartial and independent investigations is needed to put an end to this barbarity. hospitals and medical personnel are explicitly protected by international humanitarian law and attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure constitute a war crime.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs with whom you have had fruitful meetings and constructive discussions. and then i would also like to thank all the citizens who contributed with suggestions and proposals to the drafting of the resolution, the draft of which was published on the online platform of the five star movement. the result of the work carried out in close synergy over the past months is a good text and i am satisfied that it is moving in the direction of ensuring greater transparency and greater and better involvement of citizens in the work carried out in the institutions. this step forward is all the more important because it comes at a historic moment when citizens' confidence in the european union is faltering: the european institutions' buildings are seen as opaque places where decisions are taken that directly affect them but of which they often know little or nothing. it is important to note that there is a lot of talk about transparency, but unfortunately words do not always follow deeds. it is enough to think that many of the recommendations made in similar resolutions of parliament in previous years have not been followed up. yet transparency, like participatory democracy, is a fundamental democratic principle, recognised by the treaty on european union. it is therefore in the spirit of the principle of participatory democracy on which the european union is founded that the text was drawn up, which calls for the establishment of a public electronic register of the work of citizens' representatives, the decision-making process and the way public money is allocated and spent and the results achieved. the committee calls for the accessibility of information to be improved, increased and simplified by developing a common access point to the portals of the eu institutions, including access arrangements which take account of the needs of people with disabilities. the transparency of the institutions cannot, on the other hand, be achieved without adequate protection for whistleblowers, who must be protected both morally and financially. we therefore call on the commission to come forward with a proposal to protect whistleblowers as part of the democratic system. the transparency of the whole legislative process is also of central importance. in this context, the consolidation of the practice of trilogues, of which the citizens know practically nothing, eliminates the necessary public control, which is inherent in the ordinary legislative procedure, favouring the hidden work of lobbyists who can, thanks to the leakage of documents, have easier access to the information necessary to influence the decision-making process. we therefore call for greater transparency in informal trilogues and, consequently, for greater control by the public, while recognising the importance and effectiveness of such meetings. as regards lobbyists, we also call on the commission to submit without delay its proposal for an agreement on the establishment of a mandatory interinstitutional register of lobbyists. we also stress the need to ensure greater transparency in the negotiations for international agreements. the public should have access to as many documents as possible. we also believe that there is a need for greater transparency in the procedures for suspension and infringement vis-à-vis the member states: we know little or nothing about that, either. secondly, with regard to the structural funds, data on procedures and beneficiaries should be made easily accessible in order to combat and prevent abuse, fraud and corruption. as i said at the beginning of my speech, lack of transparency is one of the main causes of the loss of confidence in the european institutions and it would be a fatal mistake to pretend nothing, trying to forget about the growing abstentionism, the resurgence of nationalist sentiments, the risk of corruption and conflicts of interest. as one of the founders of the five star movement, gian roberto casaleggio, said: "it is not right that someone should make decisions for the citizens based on inscrutable logic and without being aware of it. the member of parliament is an employee of the citizens: you can't escape their control. otherwise there can be no direct democracy, or perhaps no democracy at all". as a member of the european parliament who believes in the values of freedom and democratic participation, i call on you to work together to ensure real public access to information.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr ferrara for his work. access to documents is an essential aspect of the transparency of the european institutions and a right guaranteed by the treaties. unfortunately, citizens often encounter difficulties in accessing documents relating to the union's legislative process and in understanding some aspects of its administrative activity, partly because of the persistent lack of a coordinated interinstitutional approach to the matter. i believe that the motion for a resolution under discussion today, which stresses the need for greater transparency in the work of the institutions and promotes a model of consistency in the principles governing access to documents, is going in the right direction. in the period of crisis of legitimacy which europe is going through, i believe that guaranteeing the right to know and control the activity of its institutions is a necessary measure to increase the confidence of citizens and to ensure a greater space for democratic participation. that is why all the european institutions must move in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, creating added value in the administrative and legislative procedures of the individual member states and the european institutions requires not only appropriate political activity but also, and above all, the implementation of democratic processes of sharing. increased awareness raises the profile of both the legislative and related administrative processes and reinforces the principle of full access to documents. the latter, although protected by the charter of fundamental rights, vigorously defended by the constant case law of the court of justice and the national courts, is a fundamental right that is sorely tested by the lack of harmonised rules on the aspects of access, privacy, correct and timely information to citizens, classification of confidential documents, principles that are only apparently antagonistic. in reality, their definition is constantly changing, the speed of the media and data transmission is also a factor, and they escape classification by preventing the formation of a single code. the same is felt to be urgently needed for trilogue procedures, amendments in the house, contact with lobbies and delegated acts which, if not fully shared and accessible, cloud the principle of representative democracy.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission, i thank the members for their support and i thank the shadow rapporteurs once again. transparency is the ultimate objective to be achieved and at the same time a means of bridging the gap between citizens and the european institutions, of involving citizens more closely, in accordance with the principle of participatory democracy, and of increasing the trust that - i repeat - seems to be wavering today in the european union. i was sorry to hear it said, sometimes in discussions with colleagues, that citizens are not interested in certain types of documents or do not understand them. well, it is also possible that certain information may not be understood or may arouse little interest. in fact, when i interact with citizens, many things are not understood, partly because of the technical terminology or the vast amount of information and therefore the difficulty of orienting oneself among all that is made available. the challenge for the european parliament, but also for the commission and the council, is to involve the public more, to make information more accessible to the public, to guarantee the right to information, to let the public decide what interests them and what does not. make information more usable and accessible by: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. the international negotiations, such as ttip, are the focal points. what is most troubling the citizens, even before the content, is the secrecy of these negotiations, the influence of lobbyists and the negotiations between the european institutions, the so-called trilogues, which are still shrouded in obscurity. i hope that, starting from this report by the european parliament and also drawing on the reports presented in the past years, we will move more and more in the direction of ensuring greater transparency.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to improve judicial cooperation between member states in crossborder cases involving minors. we must ensure that judgments are recognised and respected between the different member states and that they are monitored over time, for example to ensure that parental visit rights are respected or to introduce minimum standards for hearing children in national civil proceedings and training legal and social workers. i cannot help mentioning, among the dozens of petitions received, those concerning and reporting on the cases of abuse by the german jugendamt. in a very recent case, the german father even extorted money from the mother of two children! clearly, these are unacceptable things. the concept of the best interests of the child remains a vague concept, which is applied on the basis of evaluations that are too often superficial, if not even instrumental. this europe, which is so impeccable and rigorous in applying the rules to protect the market and competition, banking and finance, fails miserably when it comes to protecting the rights of people and children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner has heard how the questions we are discussing have summed up the meaning of the many petitions that have come to parliament in recent times. they essentially concern three blocks of problems, as my colleagues have repeatedly pointed out. the first is the negative effects of a broken marriage law: these effects are accentuated by the increase in mobility between countries. the whole thing is about children's rights and their protection, because they are the weakest members of the family, to the point that custody often becomes a kind of dispute that penalizes them beyond all imagination. the second is about adoption: we need a legislative framework with social protections. it is not just a matter of entrusting someone - hopefully a strong family - with the little people, but also of ensuring that they have the appropriate protection they need to live in dignity. the third theme is the fight against poverty: poverty has increased in all european countries, even the richest, because a gap has been created between the most solid part of society, the one with the highest incomes, and the poorest. the first to pay for this gap are children. i believe that any policy of protection and therefore of combating poverty must be such as to give children the highest priority. that's the starting point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of minors is one of the great challenges facing legal regulation in contemporary society. the solemn international declarations of the last few decades recognize that children have special rights and interests, particularly in view of their status as learners. however, there is a need to strengthen crossborder cooperation on child issues by promoting measures such as mediation and conciliation before a child is given for adoption, and always taking into account the best interests of the child. policies to support families, in order to reduce the number of children in care or for adoption, are urgent and can no longer be postponed. it is essential that europe works to ensure that the rights and interests of those who are concerned about life are effectively protected and protected. this is now more than ever a top priority from which no one can feel exempt.
in writing. i agree with the spirit and the wording of the oral question put by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the country. we call on the council to take concrete measures to strengthen cooperation between states on issues such as custody, adoption and procedural guarantees for minors. the interests of the child must always inspire european action in this field. we therefore urge the council to strengthen the mechanisms for crossborder mediation, with the aim of reducing disputes and cases of child abduction, which, as we know and as we can see from the many petitions received, have been steadily increasing in recent years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and there has been a great deal of cooperation on this report because it contains the very cornerstones of what our political movement is: there is the proposal for direct democracy, for greater participation of women in politics through electronic voting, and there is the concept of free internet, especially in public places. the question that naturally arises is why certain groups, i am thinking of the ppe, have asked for separate votes on these three concepts i have just mentioned. what scares certain colleagues and certain groups about an electronic vote or the concept of direct democracy through the web? that is one of the questions we have. for the rest, i think it's really a unique opportunity to use new technologies to help empower women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a blacklist of contaminated foodstuffs imported into the european union has recently been published, based on the analysis of phytosanitary residues carried out by efsa. chinese broccoli, vietnamese parsley, indian basil, egyptian pomegranates and oranges, thai chili peppers and kenyan peas, melons and watermelons from the dominican republic and mint from morocco are just some of the products that are irregular because of the presence of dangerous chemical residues that are considered carcinogenic: additives and colouring matters outside the legal framework. the commission must strengthen controls at the eu's borders on food imports to protect the public health of european citizens and ensure that all imported food meets european standards and is marketed in safe conditions. unfair competition from foreign products, often produced in socially and environmentally dumping conditions, must be prevented and the control activities of the food and veterinary office must be strengthened in order to better monitor compliance with food safety rules. the commission must make every effort to make trade flows and raw materials from abroad public in order to make it clear in a transparent way to all european consumers which companies use ingredients that are dangerous to human health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement was necessary because, as vice-president timmerman said, it was necessary to break up the immoral market of smugglers, it was necessary to secure the balkan route, it was necessary to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe in greece. and it's a deal that's working. we could have done without this agreement only if all the countries of the european union had accepted, according to the scheme proposed by the commission and supported by us, the famous relocation. but now we must monitor and monitor carefully the implementation of this agreement, so that it is in full compliance with humanitarian law, international protection for all asylum seekers, not just syrians, and we must ensure that there is resettlement and resettlement, because without resettlement and resettlement this agreement will not work. i want to say one thing about turkey: the european union is a great partner for turkey, and it is right that we should be in dialogue. but there can be no bargaining on the basis of respect for human rights, respect for the pluralism of information, respect for minorities. so will the visas. we have no prejudice but we cannot accept any discount or blackmail. do you understand? the council representative has already said that the agreement with turkey is not enough: the mediterranean route must also be made secure. there's a proposal from the italian government: i hope that the commission will take this proposal into consideration and approve it, because it is a proposal that finally addresses the issue of investment in africa in a smart way. two more points: the commission has already proposed a reform of the dublin rules. frans timmerman, you know what i mean. i have said it many times in this chamber: we are not satisfied with a mini-proposal, a small cosmetic. finally, i make a further heartfelt and passionate appeal to the austrian authorities not to close the brenner, not to commit such a serious breach of european rules and not to deal a serious blow to the coexistence of our european family. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, i do not know what to answer because it is not a question. that's a statement you made. in my speech i said "no blackmail acceptance". we will not accept any blackmail from turkey, no bargaining, no concessions. of course, we could not have made this agreement if there had been a great, strong and broad solidarity in the european countries. this one was not there, as you know perfectly well. i have been, with my group, one of the strongest supporters of solidarity with greece. don 't you ever forget: we have and must be close to greece for the efforts it is making and those it has made in the past.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in politics, as in law, words have a very specific weight. there was not one of you who did not call this agreement by the name that should be its proper name, namely agreement, agreement, precisely because it contains precise and punctual obligations of intervention and expenditure. but you called it something else when it was voted by the council and approved by the heads of state or government: you called it a "declaration". i would like to say that there is a consistent case law of the court of justice, according to which substance prevails over form. in this case, there are also regulatory changes to be made at european and national level. so can we afford it? i'm not going. there are many political reasons for this: the failure to respect human rights, democracy and freedom of expression; the oppressed minorities. but this must be common to all of us, regardless of political colour: the european parliament has a duty to defend the prerogatives and responsibilities of this house, the sole direct expression of 508 million citizens. the real populism is that of those who today trample on the law and treaties for utilitarian ends. and that's exactly the case. i sent you an e-mail yesterday, which i invite you to read carefully. we want to propose to the juri committee that it should bring an action for annulment, formerly article 263. do what we 've always done for dublin: we are not going to let the european parliament be the judge of this. we cannot allow the rights of this house to be trampled on!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement, especially from a legal point of view, is a watershed for all sides. if we proceed in accordance with international law, and european law in particular, the number of returns to turkey will certainly not be as planned. and what will migrants in greece, at risk of being transferred, do? they will go to the greek judiciary, which will go to the court of justice, or directly to the european court of human rights, and that is where the legal bluff of this agreement will fall. i am perfectly in line with the article 263 request to cancel the agreement, which will have very serious consequences for my country, italy, and for the mediterranean front: it will cause a tsunami, an invasion! then austria is very right to close the borders. thank you austria, which is setting an example for europe in defending its borders, which italy is not doing. mr renzi is now discovering the line that the league has been proposing for 20 years, namely to help migrants in their countries. this is what europe must do, rather than taking initiatives which are against european law and against international law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement of profiles is in open contradiction with international law, particularly in its most odious part, which involves a cynical game of goose that sees people who have the right to seek asylum in europe being sent back to turkey. and this is despite amnesty documenting the risk of them being sent back to the countries they fled. how can a country which, as the commission made clear last week, has never been considered safe by any member state, become so overnight? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. there is no democratic control here. it is a shame that the european governments have fallen on their knees in the face of the turkish government's demands, because they are unable to implement the common european solutions which this parliament has been calling for for a year. is this the famous two-speed europe, which in eight months hardly relocates a hundred thousand people within its borders, but in just three weeks sends 300 of them back to turkey? this is outrageous!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not i, nor the young people who want a free and secure europe, who will say 'long live austria' because it has effectively blocked our border and i expect a strong decision from the european union. but in order not to transform this agreement, which is a first step in surrender, it is necessary that turkey accepts all 72 conditions and that there is an immediate response on cyprus and to assess the situation in a comprehensive way and that there is an immediate review of dublin, but not in façade, but in real terms, that there can be, as my colleague mr weber said, a suspension of visas, even if there are no diplomatic responses to what is happening. and also, we need to be careful about non-syrians. there has been a lot of talk about greece and the help that europe is giving: but today all the newspapers are saying that greece wants the technical table to be turned into a political table for the international monetary fund's demands for greater austerity. how can you be hospitable without money? so we help not only with the means but also with the substance.
thank you, minister. i want to thank also the dutch presidency for the strong engagement in this very difficult issue for europe.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the first results of the agreement between the european union and turkey, whose main objective is to restore a system of legal admission of migrants, can be considered positive: the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not crossed by irregular migrants, and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not crossed by irregular migrants. in the coming months the agreement will have to be monitored with great care and responsibility by the european institutions, without any derogation from the minimum standards required of the government in ankara, in safeguarding the union's fundamental principles and values, such as freedom of the press and of expression. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, which is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in this sense, i think that the innovative proposals of the italian government, contained in the migration compact, can be a good starting point to steer the dialogue in the right direction and provide some of the answers that the european union needs.
the agenda includes the joint discussion of the railway package: recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the position of the council at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for railways and repealing regulation (ec) no 881/2004 (10578/1/2015 c8-0415/2015 2013/0014 (cod)) (rapporteur: roberts zīle) (a8-0073/2016), recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the position of the council at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (10579/1/2015 - c8-0416/2015 - 2013/0015 (cod)) (rapporteur: izasaran bilbao bdica (a8-0071/2016), recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the position of the european parliament at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (10579/1/2015 - c8-08-016/2015) (rapporteur: michael bramon) (a8-0071/2016), and recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the position of the european parliament at first reading of the council on the directive on rail transport and tourism and safety at first reading with a view to the directive of the european parliament at first reading with a view to the european parliament and european union (105/2015/2015/2015 (a8-0058/2015 (a8-0014 (cod)) (a8-0015). i would also remind the house that it will not be possible to grant the blue card questions during this debate because we are very late and we have a long vote ahead of us which will have to start at 11.30 a.m.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the measures which have been taken to improve passenger safety. we agree that we want to make the italian and european systems interoperable and to move towards increasingly bureaucratic management of the companies in this sector. we strongly support the introduction of the possibility for employees to submit anonymous safety reports. this will allow for greater internal control, as only those working within a company know all the mechanisms and the back-story that often escapes external audits. we hope very much that these positive elements will be applied consistently in the various member states. we have serious concerns, however, about the new powers being given to the era and the consequent increase in costs which do not appear to be covered by the budget, at least at the moment. we also hope that the implementation of the regulation will preserve jobs for employees of the national authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 june 2009 an explosion on an international cargo ship killed 32 people in the town of viareggio. seven years later, the only person who paid for that tragedy is a railway worker, riccardo antonini, who had no responsibility in the disaster but decided to help the families of the victims and for this he was fired from the state railways. we have seen a shameful reversal of responsibility between italy, poland and germany, exploiting the shortcomings of european rules. i will vote in favour of this part of the package, in the hope that scandals like this will not be repeated in the future. the challenge, however, remains to provide for and encourage serious investment in network security, which means the safety of citizens and workers and which cannot be at the mercy of the pursuit of profit at any cost, as in the other part of the fourth package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i join the comments of the members who have expressed the sense of positive work on the technical side of this fourth railway package. it 's true . from a technical point of view, we are moving rapidly towards the homogenisation of procedures: the commission is also proposing to set up a european agency to work in a balanced way with national authorities on interoperability and reduced time and costs for authorization and certification, including in terms of safety. a theme now opens up: the commission has already made a number of proposals. homogenization, from a technical point of view, will be of no use if protectionist attitudes persist, as we unfortunately still see on the governance side and on the political side: time extensions and all that. local public services need to be in the market to be efficient and cost-effective and thus open to public and private capital.
in writing. ‒ the protocol allows the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia without making substantial changes to the content of the agreement. i voted in favour of adapting the rules on the common airspace to croatia's accession.
in writing. ‒ in december 2010, following a council decision, the eu and georgia signed a comprehensive air transport agreement. under the act of accession of the republic of croatia to the union, the balkan state is guaranteed accession to treaties previously concluded by the eu through appropriate protocols amending agreements concluded with third countries. i voted in favour of the assis report, which approves the protocol to the eu-georgia agreement, because i believe it is important to allow croatia access to the common airspace established as a result of the agreement with the caucasian country.
in writing. ‒ the measure is purely technical and does not present any criticisms. it is necessary to supplement the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement between the member states following the accession of croatia and for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should take part in all international agreements signed by it, including the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the eu's global partnership and/or cooperation agreements with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ recommendation giving the green light for the conclusion of a protocol integrating croatia, following its accession to the eu, into the union-georgia common aviation area agreement. it is a purely technical measure, not a problem. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation in question to allow the republic of croatia to participate in the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia. the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive aviation agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region. it is part of the union's external air transport policy framework established by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement is an important pillar of european foreign policy and the definition of a common security policy. i voted in favour of croatia's accession to this agreement, as it is essential that all member states are involved in the union's common foreign and security policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol because it simply extends the agreement on a common airspace, which already exists between the european union and georgia, to the last member state to join the union, croatia. it was therefore easy to vote in favour, because in my view this vote represents a further step forward for a more connected europe that is closer to the world's needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the objective of the protocol is to allow croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union and georgia and to provide the necessary linguistic adjustments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-georgia agreement on common airspace. the objective of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia. this is a major milestone for the eu as a whole, as it represents the first comprehensive aviation agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the strictly technical measure concerning croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr assis on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because i think it is important that croatia, more than two years after joining the eu, fully adheres to all agreements concluded and signed by the eu with third countries. the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement in particular represents an important pillar of european foreign policy in the caucasus area: the council should therefore be given a mandate by parliament to approve the protocol of accession as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union in 2013, i consider it essential that it is fully integrated into eu policies and regulations. this implies that croatia is also acceding to the common aviation area agreement between the eu, its member states and georgia. this agreement is of fundamental importance, both as part of the union's foreign policy and as the first comprehensive air transport agreement for georgia. i therefore support the proposal to conclude a protocol amending the abovementioned agreement to include croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of croatia. the aim of the agreement is to create a common airspace between the eu and its neighbours, to guarantee fair and non-discriminatory conditions for economic operators on the basis of the principles of the eu treaties, and to align georgia's aviation legislation with that of the eu in areas such as safety and air traffic management. as a consequence of the accession of croatia to the eu and in order to ensure that croatia accedes to the agreements concluded and signed by the european union and its states with third countries, a protocol is necessary to enable croatia to become a party to that agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure allowing the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to provide the necessary subsequent language adjustments. it was the first comprehensive aviation agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region.
in writing. ‒ considering that georgia is a key partner in the caucasus region, the importance of the air transport agreement concluded with the european union in 2009 is evident. in view of croatia's accession to the union, i would like to express my favourable opinion on the protocol allowing the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia.
in writing. ‒ the common aviation area agreement between the european union and georgia was signed on 2 december 2010. the latter was the first comprehensive aviation agreement signed with a major aviation partner in the caucasus region. the accession of croatia to the european union requires that zagreb accede to agreements concluded or signed by the eu and its member states with one or more third countries. the objective of this protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union and georgia and to provide the necessary subsequent language adjustments. the protocol will not introduce any changes to the content of the common aviation area agreement. i voted in favour of approving the protocol of accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia becomes party to the agreements that the eu and its member states conclude with third countries. i have decided to vote in favour of the conclusion of the protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and georgia to take account of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the protocol allows the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and israel, without making substantial changes to the content of the agreement. i voted in favour of adapting the rules on the common airspace to croatia's accession.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and israel, signed on 10 december 2013, is an important achievement in an overall strategy to achieve a common airspace between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. as in the case of the vote on the protocol amending the agreement with georgia, i have decided to vote in favour of the assis report on the eu-israel euro-mediterranean agreement. the inclusion of croatia will be a crucial step towards the full realisation of the enlarged common airspace project.
in writing. ‒ the measure to be voted on is a non-critical measure which was necessary to update the existing legislation following the accession of croatia to the eu. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should take part in all international agreements signed by it, including the eu-israel euro-mediterranean air transport agreement.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the eu's global partnership and/or cooperation agreements with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. - i vote for it. it is a purely technical vote, which takes note of the fact that croatia, once it joins the european union, will also accede to the convention of december 1997 on cooperation between the customs authorities of the 28 member states of the union. the measure does not pose any practical problems. the accession of croatia to this convention should, in fact, simplify customs procedures for our companies and public authorities. the lega nord has always supported the exchange of information between the customs authorities of the member states, as this is a useful tool to combat more effectively the circulation of counterfeit products or products dangerous to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation in question to allow the republic of croatia to participate in the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel. the agreement with israel, a major air transport partner in the mediterranean region, is an important milestone in the process of creating a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. it is part of the union's external air transport policy framework established by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the eu-israel agreement, which will enter into force in 2017, aims to establish a single market in air transport, based on the adoption of common rules on passenger and cargo safety, the direct operation of flights to and from the ports concerned and the renegotiation of commercial agreements on the exchange of goods and passenger transit. the prospect is to achieve a euro-mediterranean airspace. it is an important instrument of eu foreign policy in which all member states must participate. i therefore voted in favour of croatia's accession to that agreement.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this protocol because, like the previous one, it aims to fully integrate croatia, the latest country to join the european union, into the various agreements already concluded. in this specific case, the objective is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel. i therefore voted in favour of a europe that is more connected and more in tune with the needs of the world.
in writing. ‒ this protocol is also aimed at enabling croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean agreement on transport between the european union and the state of israel. the agreements in the air transport sector are part of the eu's foreign policy and i therefore felt i had to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-israel agreement on the common airspace. the objective of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and israel. the agreement with a major air transport partner in the mediterranean region such as israel is an important milestone in the process of creating a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the strictly technical measure concerning croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union and its member states, of a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean agreement on air transport between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement with israel is a decisive step towards the creation of a common airspace between the eu and its neighbours. it is therefore essential that the republic of croatia, as the last member state to accede to the eu, should be included in that agreement, as provided for in the obligations arising from its act of accession signed in 2013.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this agreement is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the emerging euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the eu, its member states and the state of israel with subsequent language adjustments. the agreement with israel is an important milestone in the process of creating a common space between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours, as it is a valuable partner in the field of air transport. i therefore support mr assis' report.
the conclusion of the protocol between the council and the state of israel to modify the protocol on air transport is a technical point to update the same after the croatian membership to the european union. the agreement was reached with the third party, the state of israel, and with positive recommendations from the relevant council, the relevant committees of the european parliament and the need to update the protocol. hence, my positive vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure allowing the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean agreement on air transport between the european union, its member states and the state of israel, and to provide the subsequent necessary linguistic adjustments. the agreement with israel is an important milestone in the process of creating a common airspace between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours.
in writing. ‒ the eu-israel agreement is part of the process of establishing a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. in order to allow croatia to be fully part of the eu, i believe that the protocol which would allow it to accede to the above agreement is necessary. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union and the state of israel was signed on 10 june 2013. the agreement with israel, a key aviation partner in the mediterranean region, is an important milestone in the process of creating a common aviation area between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the objective of the protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel and to provide the necessary subsequent language adjustments. the protocol will not introduce any change in the content of the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement. the council must obtain the consent of the european parliament before the agreement can be concluded. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol in question.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia becomes party to the agreements that the eu and its member states conclude with third countries. i have decided to vote in favour of the conclusion of the protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and israel to take account of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the jaakonsaari report on croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. this is an important step which will allow the balkan country to join the cooperation mechanism between customs authorities, increasing the effectiveness of the european response to fraud and other irregularities.
in writing. ‒ the measure to be voted on is a non-critical measure which was necessary to update the existing legislation following the accession of croatia to the eu. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should take part in all the international agreements it has signed, including the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the eu's global partnership and/or cooperation agreements with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ the convention is an important instrument of cooperation aimed at reducing transnational bureaucratic obstacles. i therefore voted in favour of croatia's accession to that convention.
in writing. ‒ this was also, for me, another vote in favour of croatia's greater involvement with the agreements already concluded by the european union. in this particular case, my vote was in favour of croatia being included in an existing agreement on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. it is therefore an important vote for greater participation by croatia in the work of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a formal consultation procedure under the codecision procedure, which calls for the 1997 convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations to enter into force for croatia as well.
in writing. ‒ almost three years ago, on 1 july 2013, the european union welcomed croatia's accession as its 28th member state. the european parliament voted in favour of the legislative report on croatia's accession to the convention of 18 december 1997 on customs matters. the purpose of the convention is to regulate specific forms of cooperation and mutual assistance between customs administrations in relation to cross-border operations, in order to ensure the prevention and prosecution of infringements of both national and community legislation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the extension of the scope of the agreement to include the baltic sea. today's vote updates and harmonises the customs rules for the republic of croatia, thus facilitating the exchange of goods and services across borders and strengthening market surveillance. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the report. it welcomed the commission's recommendation on croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between administrative customs authorities, fostering closer integration between croatia, the eu and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the strictly technical measure concerning croatia's accession to the eu and its cooperation with the customs authorities of the other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, because i believe that it is in the interest of the whole union and of croatia, the latest country to become a member of the eu, to apply and implement the acquis of the union as quickly as possible and to comply with eu rules. the procedure, which is technical in nature, relates to the accession of croatia to the eu conventions and regulations on assistance and cooperation between customs administrations: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said on the agreement on common airspace between the eu, its member states and georgia, i reiterate the importance of full compliance with our policies by any state that joins the union. i therefore vote in favour of croatia's accession to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the european parliament report on the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the commission recommends that the convention drawn up on the basis of article k3 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations also enter into force for croatia.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides for a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union or article 293 of the treaty establishing the european community. i therefore consider that croatia's accession to the european union is made possible by its accession by means of a protocol to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations signed in brussels on 18 december 1997. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. article 3 (4) of the act of accession simply provides that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession to the european union. those conventions and protocols will enter into force for croatia on a date to be fixed by the council.
in writing. ‒ the report approves the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. the convention governs cooperation between eu member states for the purpose of preventing, detecting and prosecuting breaches of customs legislation. since the report does not introduce any substantial changes to the text of the convention, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has sent a request to the polish mp boleslaw g. piecha to waive his immunity on the grounds of an alleged traffic offence. under the current rules on immunities and privileges, it is for the european parliament to decide whether or not the polish member of parliament is entitled to immunity. however, since mr boleslaw was a polish senator at the time of the commission of the offence, it is considered that there is no direct link between the offence committed and mr boleslaw's performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. for these reasons i voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has forwarded to the european parliament the request of the polish inspector general for road transport to waive the immunity of bolesław g. piecha, member of the european parliament elected for poland. the member was alleged to have committed, before taking up his current post in parliament, an alleged offence of exceeding the speed limit in an urban area. in accordance with the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights and in view of the absence of a fumus persecutionis, i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of mr boleslaw g. piecha's immunity.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged traffic offence in exceeding the speed limit in an agglomeration in poland. the request is to waive immunity because there is no clear and precise evidence of fumus persecutionis and because there do not appear to be grounds for immunity under article 9 of the regulation. i vote in favour of rejecting the request for immunity.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity is a guarantee of the freedom and independence of members of parliament and not a personal benefit. the facts for which proceedings are being brought against mr boleslaw g. piecha relate to a road accident and therefore have nothing to do with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the request for the waiver of mr barzanti's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of boleslaw g. piecha because the alleged road traffic offence committed took place before his colleague became a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of the immunity of mr boleslaw g. piecha because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the comments made by mr gilles lebreton, the rapporteur, and i support the solution proposed in the report.
in writing. ‒ protecting the interests of children must be a key factor in all european policies and strategies that affect them. the european union can and must provide transnational measures relating to family law which guarantee respect for and protection of these vulnerable individuals. the resolution addresses important issues: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for these reasons i voted in favour, confident that common rules will be drawn up in all the member states to protect children in the most effective way possible.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, questions relating to the custody, removal and placement of children, and more generally to the protection of their rights, have increasingly been the subject of petitions to the european parliament. the resolution voted today in parliament, which i support, highlights the shortcomings of the brussels iia regulation and proposes some solutions to ensure that the freedoms of movement and residence do not harm the interests of the child. the member states must first of all put in place new transnational and crossborder mechanisms which take account of the specific characteristics of such conflicts. they must provide for early warning and preventive monitoring procedures and have specific sections within the courts dedicated to cross-border cases involving children. the lack of european mechanisms for the automatic recognition of national adoption orders issued in other member states is a serious problem. member states and the commission must endeavour to regulate the recognition of national adoptions with the best interests of the child in mind and in full respect of the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is acceptable and free of criticism and i therefore supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is important for the safety and protection of children that a common framework be established to harmonise the discipline on safeguarding the best interests of the child.
in writing. ‒ a motion for a resolution that is not critical of anything. it is a long statement reaffirming the rights of the child and is based on a series of petitions signed by citizens and recently received by the european parliament. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on safeguarding the best interests of the child throughout the eu, so that the protection of children's rights can be addressed by the european union in a clear and decisive way. the protection of minors and the promotion of their interests is one of the major challenges facing contemporary society, not only in the legal regulation of individual states but, in particular, in all public policy. the solemn international declarations of the last few decades recognize that children have special rights and interests, particularly in view of their status as learners. it is essential that europe works to ensure that the rights and interests of those who are concerned about life are effectively protected and protected. this is now more than ever a top priority on which no one can feel exempt.
in writing. ‒ the resolution in question is motivated by the large number of petitions received on civil proceedings involving minors. the aim is to call on the commission and the member states to improve the implementation of the brussels iia regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility. all child protection systems should have transnational and cross-border mechanisms that take into account the specific nature of disputes that directly or indirectly affect the best interests of children. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on petitions, i have become aware of how many european citizens are affected by issues relating to the protection of children's rights. this shows that there is a fundamental problem in this area. i believe that europe has the necessary and sufficient means to respond effectively to this question and i voted in favour of this resolution to send a clear political message to the member states. there is a need for greater coordination at european level to increase controls and thus ensure the proper protection of minors.
in writing. ‒ the exercise of a fundamental right such as freedom of movement and residence should not entail a threat to the rights of the child, yet there is an increasing number of cases of cross-border separations and divorces in which children are not only disputed between two parents but also between states, very often violating the right of the child to have regular personal relationships or direct contact with both parents, as enshrined in article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i fully agree with the recommendations contained in the text of the resolution, in particular the need to improve cooperation between the judicial systems of the various member states in cases concerning minors, and to establish alert systems in cases of child abduction with cross-border implications by concluding relevant cooperation agreements between states.
in writing. ‒ freedom of movement between member states is a fundamental eu right. however, the increase in the mobility of citizens cannot compromise the rights of children, including the right to family life. i therefore believe that the european parliament's resolution on safeguarding the best interests of the child throughout the eu is an important instrument for safeguarding the protection of children. in particular, by voting in favour i intend to support the call for member states to cooperate more closely with each other in their judicial systems in cases involving children and to coordinate more closely in the handling of crossborder cases involving children, especially cases of child abduction. i also support the creation of a european service for legal and social assistance to citizens in eu member states other than their own who are facing family proceedings. i believe that the interests of the child must be safeguarded before any budgetary needs at national level and that it is time to offer european standards for the protection of children. this resolution is a first step towards establishing minimum standards for hearing a minor in national civil proceedings and towards the recognition of national adoption judgments in other member states.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions regularly receives a large number of petitions concerning alleged or actual violations of the rights of children and their families. this is a very delicate problem which europe is having difficulty tackling effectively, since family law is a matter for the national jurisdiction of each member state and only certain aspects are regulated at community level. nevertheless, the impressive number of petitions on this subject makes it all the more urgent to reflect deeply on the meaning of the european project that has been achieved so far, a project that primarily protects goods, products and finance and too often fails to protect the rights of people and, in this case, children, our future generations. i voted in favour of this report which contains a number of proposals to improve crossborder judicial cooperation and identifies those critical areas where action is needed to put the best interests of the child back at the centre of the institutions' action at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of strongly emphasising children's rights and safeguarding their interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on safeguarding the best interests of the child throughout the eu on the basis of petitions to the european parliament because i believe that all eu and member state policies must have this best interest at their core. i welcomed the proposals in the report to set up a platform to provide assistance to citizens of other member states involved in family proceedings and to create a european-wide helpline for child abduction and abuse cases because there are increasingly cross-border situations and conflicts involving parents from different member states, which put the effective exercise of rights at risk. in this respect, i agree with the request for amendment of the brussels 2 regulation, both in relation to the need to define the concept of habitual residence better from a legal point of view and in relation to the problem of non-compliance with judgments issued by the judicial authority of a country in the rest of europe. the eu must therefore act to remove the legal loopholes in the protection of children's rights and interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the best interests of the child must be a factor of primary importance in all decisions of the european union. increased mobility within the eu in particular has led to an increase in cross-border child protection issues, often resulting in the loss of custody and having a significant impact on the lives of all those involved. every effort should be made to make these steps as traumatic as possible for the child.
in writing. ‒ child custody issues have a significant impact on the lives of each person involved and on society at large, so the best interests of the child must be considered as a factor of primary importance. i voted in favour of the resolution calling for member states to set up monitoring and evaluation systems within a national coordination framework on crossborder cases involving children.
in writing. ‒ in stressing that the best interests of the child must be at the heart of all the european union's actions and that, as stated in the report, the exercise of a fundamental right such as freedom of movement and residence should not result in a greater threat to the right of children to family life, i agree with all the comments in the document submitted to this parliament. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the increase in crossborder child protection issues demonstrates the need to review the brussels iia regulation, which mainly regulates aspects of parental responsibility and the right of the child to maintain contact with both parents, even if they are separated or reside in different eu countries. the idea is to harmonize the protection of minors between member states. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to coordinate crossborder conflicts by establishing a mechanism for automatic recognition by each eu country of decisions issued in another eu country on adoption and parental responsibility, and establishing cooperation between the central authorities of the member states. it is equally important that countries which do not yet comply with the 1993 hague convention sign up to ensure that children benefit from the same standards, thus contributing to the creation of a harmonized system of child safeguards. specialised training and education for social workers and all professionals dealing with cross-border cases involving children should also be provided, as well as a platform for sharing practical information on institutional protection mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the protection of children's rights is a matter of fundamental interest to the european union, as clearly demonstrated by article 24 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. the tragic phenomenon of child trafficking is compounded by a decline in the number of cross-border adoptions, both for economic reasons (persistent crisis) and bureaucratic reasons (complexity of procedures). this denies an increasing number of children the right to grow up in a peaceful and secure family environment. every effort should be made to ensure that adoption procedures are successful, and that bureaucratic formalities, while necessary, are not an obstacle, while respecting the best interests of the child. finally, attention should be paid to the sensitive psychological, emotional, physical and socio-educational implications that may arise when a child is removed from his or her place of origin, and appropriate care and support should be provided in response to these possibilities for children and families, in order to ensure the utmost protection of the children's higher right.
in writing. ‒ the empl committee has asked the european parliament for permission to consult the european economic and social committee in order to establish a european pillar of social rights. however, this advice is too often ignored, resulting in a waste of resources and time. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this measure is part of the so-called 'fourth railway package' (qpf), a series of legislative measures aimed at modernising the eu's rail transport sector. i believe that the proposed regulatory changes will meet the needs of the citizens and also a simplification of the regulations in the european union. for these reasons i voted against the proposed rejection amendment and therefore in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in his state of the union address to the european parliament on 9 september 2015, president juncker announced the establishment of a european pillar of social rights. on 8 march, the european commission launched a public consultation to reflect on new trends in the organisation of work and society. the results of the consultation will help to identify the scope of possible future eu action in the field of social policies. the consultation will run until 31 december 2016 and the commission should present the consolidated version of the european pillar of social rights in spring 2017. we are naturally opposed to and will oppose in any way the 'communitization' of social policies. we are totally against the waste of money that the eesc represents. we believe, however, that democratic opposition is born of dialogue and, as this is merely a request for consultation of the stakeholders and the social partners, the vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the economic and social committee on the establishment of the european pillar of social rights. indeed, one of the eesc's main tasks is to act as a bridge between the eu institutions and organised civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am satisfied with the empl committee's decision to consult the european economic and social committee on the establishment of the european pillar of social rights. it is a simple procedure, but i felt it was my duty to support this initiative, especially as it is a sensitive subject such as social rights.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the basis of rule 137 of parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this as it is only a request for consultation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the creation of a common european legislative framework for the rail network. this regulation specifically concerns the european union agency for railways. the purpose of this technical part is to make european railways more interoperable while maintaining a high level of safety. this regulation gives the european railway agency (era) more powers, including the power to issue authorisations and safety certificates directly to the relevant sector. the era will thus have a greater role in the ertms (european rail traffic management system). a single point of contact for requests is provided and the era will adopt rules for conflict and litigation prevention. in order to promote the development of an efficient european rail network, i voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the presentation by the commission of the fourth railway package is an important milestone in the integration of the european railway area, which is still too hampered by the presence of an environment that is not liberalised, not very dynamic and not favourable to business. the zīle report, which i have supported today, is a significant contribution to the creation of an eu railway agency which is capable of producing sustainable growth in the sector, ensuring increased employment and economies of scale. the text adopted represents a significant simplification step, ensuring that the era can issue all authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border operations and all safety certificates to railway undertakings providing cross-border services. the era will be able to establish a 'one-stop shop' which will act as a single entry point for all applications, simplifying and streamlining procedures. finally, the era's governing board will be able to adopt rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and to establish procedures for cooperation with national judicial authorities.
in writing. ‒ the measure has some criticisms which have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ railway interoperability and safety is a central element of the sustainable development model for the europe of the future. to improve them, the european railway agency (era) was established by regulation (ec) no 881/2004 of 29 april 2004, with offices in lille and valenciennes (france). the agency shall promote the progressive harmonisation, registration and monitoring of technical specifications for interoperability (tsis) across the european rail system and the development of common safety objectives for european railways. although the era does not have autonomous decision-making powers, it contributes to drafting proposals for decisions for the european commission. regulation (ec) no 1335/2008 of 16 december 2008 has conferred new tasks on the era, which are related to the amendments to the directives on railway safety (2004/49/ec) and on the interoperability of the rail system (2008/57/ec). now, with the adoption of the fourth railway package, the era's powers of investigation and audit in its fields of competence will finally be strengthened. this will help to avoid having 28 different systems for the type approval of trains: the agency will act as a single point of contact for issuing authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border operations and safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in different eu states.
in writing. ‒ this measure is part of the so-called 'fourth railway package' (qpf), a series of legislative measures aimed at modernising the eu's rail transport sector. in particular, the zile report (ecr) concerns changes to the rules governing the european railway agency (era), which was established in 2004 and has two sites, both in france (valenciennes and lille). our position on the qpf is not negative, but this is perhaps the only dossier which we find dubious. on the one hand, we are absolutely convinced that there is a need for coordination of railway activities at european level, especially at a time when concepts such as the harmonization of technical standards or non-discriminatory access to the market will be the rule. on the other hand, however, we are sceptical about the agency's instrument and whether the new functions it will be given will really be carried out in the interests of the user citizens and all market players. the era will have the competence to issue vehicle authorisations and safety certificates. there are doubts about how the european commission will manage to allocate the necessary funds to supplement existing staff with the additional staff needed. i mean, there's also a cost-increasing problem that we hoped would be more limited. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report in order to support a greater integration of the european railway area. the three previous 'railway packages' had already introduced substantial innovations aimed at making european railways more competitive and interoperable, while maintaining a high level of safety. nevertheless, the sector continues to suffer from barriers to competition, discrimination and the lack of a liberalized, dynamic and business-friendly environment. there are too many different national rules, with opaque procedures and standards. the fourth 'railway package' approved today will improve the performance and competitiveness of the sector and increase the quality and efficiency of rail services. this new agreement eliminates the need for multiple applications and allows for streamlining of authorisation and certification procedures, as the european union agency for railways (era) will have the power to issue marketing authorisations and safety certificates. at present, manufacturers and operators have to apply to the authorities of each member state, making the procedures more costly and time-consuming, particularly for railway undertakings providing cross-border services.
in writing. ‒ this proposal gives the era new powers, including the power to issue vehicle authorisations and safety certificates. the aim of the measure is to make railways more interoperable while maintaining a high level of safety. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it represents a further step towards the establishment of a european union agency for railways (era) and, in my view, an important step towards making european railways more competitive and dynamic. the aim of this report is to improve the performance and competitiveness of the sector and to increase the quality and efficiency of rail services, all of which are laudable objectives. i also think that the whole of the european union, starting with the individual member states, should support this initiative, because today this form of transport is, in my view, an important contribution to growth and employment. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the european union agency for railways (era) is a technical pillar of the fourth railway package and the result of a long negotiation between the european parliament and the council which resulted in an agreement providing, amongst the various competences, for era to: issue all authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border operations and all safety certificates to railway undertakings providing cross-border services; to establish a 'one-stop shop' as the entry point for all applications, making the procedures simple and transparent and easily searchable by national authorities; adopt rules for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and procedures for cooperation with national judicial authorities. in view of this, i felt i had to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the fourth railway package. it provides for more safety checks, lower costs and exchange of information between operators in the member states, fostering a more open european market and an improvement in the quality of service for passengers. the new rules represent an important step towards harmonising national legislation and having a well-equipped and efficient european railway agency, which will promote the creation and operation of a single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from this recommendation because, although i am convinced of the need to coordinate railway activities at european level, i am sceptical that the new tasks conferred will be carried out in the interests of the citizens who use them and of all operators on the market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it will significantly support the european rail sector. i believe that the resolution will make the sector more integrated, more competitive, more business friendly and more interoperable. the european rail sector will probably need more reforms, even after this package, in order to be fully integrated as a continental system and to address all the challenges it faces. railways are an important part of our transport industry, and one that we will have to depend on increasingly if we are to achieve our climate goals. to that end, and to protect the people employed in the rail sector, we must ensure that the sector is as effective, competitive and healthy as possible, now and in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached with the council on the 'technical' pillar of the fourth railway package and specifically on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for railways (era) repealing the previous regulation, because i believe it is important to increase the powers of the era from a european perspective, as has been the case in other sectors and for other services within the single market. i supported the idea of creating a 'one-stop shop' for the issuing of authorisations for control-command and signalling systems, eu vehicle authorisations and single safety certificates. similarly, i have supported the recognition of greater powers in the development of the european rail traffic management system and the allocation of greater powers of control over the national safety authorities, as the era will be called upon to monitor their performance. the national competent authorities will be called upon to play a supervisory role on the local market. the basic objective of the increase in era powers is to extend the safety of railway services. the hope is that citizens will also benefit from the entry of new players on the market, again in terms of safety as well as prices, to avoid future accidents and to encourage the exchange of good information.
in writing. ‒ after a long process, agreement has finally been reached on the so-called fourth railway package, which includes two main innovations: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the main objective of the era is to create a more competitive and interoperable sector and to increase its quality and efficiency, thereby ensuring more safety in the services offered. the market is to be opened up to new operators, thus ending the monopoly regime, with the exception of the smaller states which will continue to use the system of direct allocations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. consumers will have more choice and companies will be able to offer different products. this is a very important vote for all european citizens, although unfortunately in my region, sicily, this development opportunity will not be able to be seized, given the inadequacy of the railway network and the lack of planning.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the establishment of a european union agency for railways, as envisaged in the proposal submitted to this parliament, does not meet the needs of the union itself. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend the regulatory framework in order to define the new tasks of the european railway agency in the field of interoperability and safety. the agreement reached between parliament and the council, approved by parliament on 14 march 2016, will allow for greater economies of scale for european railway undertakings. it will also reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining the current high level of security, help to avoid so-called 'disguised discrimination' and significantly reduce the number of national rules in areas where harmonised eu regulation is being introduced. i therefore voted in favour of the second reading.
in writing. ‒ as a person directly involved in the debate on the broad regulatory framework of the sixth railway package, i have given my support to this report presented by parliament on the proposal of the european council. it provides in particular for a 'one-stop shop' for authorisations and safety certifications for cross-border rail services, facilitating simpler and more transparent procedures. for national vehicles and operators, it will still be possible to choose whether to submit their application for authorisation to the national authority or to contact the european railway agency directly.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the new legislation on the fourth railway package, one of the most important reforms in the railway sector in recent years. the legislation will allow the creation of a more efficient and liberalised single european railway area, which is beneficial both for citizens and for the companies operating there and capable of competing internationally with other modes of transport. one of the six legislative proposals that make up the railway package concerns the european union agency for railways (era). the new proposal will make the agency a 'one-stop shop' for the issuing of authorisations and all safety certificates, thus simplifying a long, complex and costly procedure. the agency will also play a greater role in the development of the european rail traffic management system and will cooperate with national safety authorities in order to ensure a clear division of tasks and thus avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the creation of a common european legislative framework for the rail network. the common regulation aims to remove administrative barriers with a view to a common approach to safety standards. these reforms have reduced administrative costs and introduced common terminology for the different stages of future procedures. in order to harmonize european standards in the railway sector, i have decided to vote against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the issue of the continued fragmentation of the union's railway system is clearly an obstacle to the full realisation of a genuine european railway area. it is a negative factor affecting the perception of citizens and businesses of the quality and efficiency of services. according to eurobarometer, 54% of users are dissatisfied with rail services on the continent, while data confirms that only 6% of the eu's market share is affected by rail transport. the fourth railway package is a systematic response to ensure the coherent development of the union's rail system. within it, the interoperability directive represents a crucial step in the so-called technical pillar. my support for the barandica report is based on the conviction that it represents a practical response to the present difficulties. the new legislation will lead to a reduction in costs and an acceleration of administrative procedures. the interoperability of rail traffic management projects will be ensured and national legislation will be significantly reduced in all those areas where harmonised eu-wide regulation is developed.
in writing. ‒ this measure is part of the so-called fourth railway package (qpf), a series of legislative measures aimed at modernising the eu rail transport sector. i believe that the proposed regulatory changes will meet the needs of the citizens and also a simplification of legislation in the eu, for these reasons i voted against the proposed rejection amendment and therefore in support of the report.
in writing. ‒ with directive 96/48/ec of 23 july 1996 on the interoperability of the trans-european high-speed rail system and directive 2001/16/ec of 19 march 2001 on the interoperability of the trans-european conventional rail system, the european union has initiated a process to enable the good use of the different rail systems of the member states and the safe and smooth transition from one national network to another. under these directives, several technical solutions (the 'technical specifications for interoperability', tsis) have already been developed, covering such fundamental aspects as train driving and safety, signalling, telematic applications for freight transport, the qualification of cross-border transport staff, freight wagons and noise emissions. progress over the last 20 years has been many and appreciable. today we must complete this journey, ensuring full interoperability of one of the most important and widespread railway systems in the world.
in writing. ‒ the measure is at second reading, so no final vote is expected. the efdd group has, however, proposed rejection, which will therefore be put to the vote. this is part of the so-called 'fourth railway package' (qrp), a series of legislative measures to modernise the eu's rail transport sector. the measure comes to this vote at second reading at the end of a long process which started during the last parliamentary term and which saw a very intense final negotiation phase between parliament and the council. the report, signed by mr bilbao barandica (eldr), deals with the updating of the rules on the interoperability of the rail system. the regulatory changes should help to take some steps towards a kind of european railway area which will hopefully meet the needs of citizens. interoperability will also act in the direction of simplification: companies will only have to apply to the european authority for authorisation to operate on crossborder routes. regulatory harmonization should also allow economies of scale and consequent savings. in addition, the individual national authorities should be able to dialogue better with each other. the text agreed with the council was approved by a very large majority in the committee on transport. i vote against the motion to reject the whole measure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services by removing the remaining administrative and technical barriers that stand in the way of a single european railway area. over the last decade, the eu rail market has undergone profound transformations, introduced gradually by three rail legislative packages aimed at opening up national markets and making railways more competitive and interoperable at eu level. however, despite the considerable development of the european union acquis establishing an internal market for rail transport services, the modal share of rail in intra-eu transport has remained modest. at present, the overall eu market share of rail transport is flat at 6% while, according to eurobarometer, 54% of users are dissatisfied with rail services. a common approach to safety and interoperability standards is needed to increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating in the eu. it is essential to reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures while maintaining the current high level of security. it is also necessary to help avoid any disguised form of discrimination, in particular against new companies wishing to enter the railway market.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to remove the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the european market and, in particular, to introduce a common approach to safety and interoperability standards, reduce administrative costs, speed up administrative procedures and avoid disguised discrimination. at the end of the negotiations, an agreement was reached to avoid the requirement for firms to submit multiple applications. the aim is to create a single point of access for all applications and to introduce terminology for the different stages of the procedures. all these rules are designed to remove bureaucratic barriers which are harmful to operators in the sector. in view of this, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this was another vote for me in favour of the creation of a functional european railway area that is in line with the requirements of the european union, in this particular case with regard to interoperability between the various member states. for rail transport to be more practical, dynamic and up to date, i believe that the first thing that is needed is to remove the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the railway sector and to aim at greater cooperation between the member states, all of which is to facilitate, improve and develop rail transport services within the union and with third countries and also to contribute to the completion of the single european railway area. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on the interoperability of the rail system, which is part of the fourth railway package and is a further step towards the creation of a single european railway area, aiming at the removal of the remaining administrative and technical barriers, thereby improving the competitiveness of railway undertakings and manufacturers of railway equipment across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because improving the quality and efficiency of rail services will allow the sector to attract more investment and increase the use of the service by european citizens and beyond.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the rejection proposal because i agree with the provision that regulatory changes should help to make progress towards a european railway area that can improve the needs of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the council and parliament on the fourth railway package, with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the interoperability of the eu rail system, because i believe it is essential that we finally achieve harmonisation of the rules on rail systems within the eu. the commission's initial proposal aimed to speed up administrative procedures and reduce costs, with a view to facilitating railway companies' access to the eu market. it took three years to reach agreement between the co-legislators, and if the council also ratifies quickly, the imminent entry into force of the directive will allow economic operators to no longer have to adapt their products to the different technical regulations of the member states, and this represents a further important step towards a fully functioning single market which also puts the safety of travellers at the centre. i am very much in favour of the legislative recasting because it will eliminate the requirement to submit multiple applications, with a european agency responsible for issuing authorisations for vehicles involved in cross-border operations and a single desk which will act as an access point for all applications: this is also an important insight into the need for transparency and monitoring by the competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the system introduced by the new directive represents a further step towards the creation of a single european railway area. it is essential for both businesses and consumers to create an effective system that reduces administrative costs and speeds up procedures while maintaining a high level of security.
in writing. ‒ the proposal on the interoperability of the rail system within the eu aims to achieve optimal levels of technical harmonisation and to improve, facilitate and develop rail transport and services within the eu and with third countries, contributing to the completion of a better railway area, which will lead to a progressive development of the internal market. the aim of the railway package proposal is to remove all the barriers that still exist in the market today by providing a common approach to safety and interoperability, in order to increase the economy in the eu, reduce administrative costs and avoid discrimination. that is why i am in favour of this proposal and i believe that there is no better way of breaking down the barriers caused by distance and the difficulties in connecting. i am sorry to say that my country, sicily, is still excluded from these services, which are denied because of the lack of planning by the local administration.
in writing. ‒ over the past decade, despite considerable progress in the union's rail transport acquis, the share of rail in intra-eu transport has remained moderate. however, i do not think that the proposal presented today fully meets the requirements of the interoperability of the rail system. i therefore feel that i must vote against.
in writing. ‒ after years of negotiations, parliament finally approves the legislative package that will liberalise the european railway sector and harmonise the rules governing its operation. the new rules will ensure greater competition and improve the quality and efficiency of rail services, leading to reduced costs for citizens and businesses, both for passenger and freight transport. companies will no longer have to apply for certificates and authorisations for each country, and the establishment of the european union agency for railways (era) will also reduce red tape. a single application will be sufficient and valid throughout the eu area. safety standards will also be raised and harmonized. the reform will also ensure greater transparency by preventing public funds from being used for commercial activities and ensuring that public sector obligations are instead respected for lines that are not profitable but are in the public interest, particularly in rural areas. all this will make a major contribution to growth in the european economy and to employment. the political part of the agreement (to be approved by the end of the year) will also require stricter rules to protect workers, so that their rights are not affected by the liberalization of the market.
in writing. ‒ the interoperability directive is part of the fourth railway package and aims to remove the remaining administrative and technical barriers to the creation of a single european railway area. the proposal aims to establish the conditions to be met in order to achieve interoperability of the union's rail system in order to define an optimum level of technical harmonisation, improve and develop rail transport and services within the union and with third countries. this is certainly a very important directive which will promote mobility and competitiveness throughout our continent. i therefore voted in favour of the second reading.
in writing. ‒ my support for this report on the fourth railway package is intended to express my positive opinion of the work and objectives of this package. in particular, this report highlights the role of the era in some of the key functions it will be called upon to perform. in particular, the era will not have a super-agency role but a coordinating role and a last resort in the event of litigation. it will therefore play a central role in safety certification, information exchange and staff training, facilitating the simplification and harmonisation of rules within the union.
in writing. ‒ in europe, moving trains from one country to another is not as straightforward as one might think. the fragmentation of europe's rail systems makes rail transport inefficient and very expensive because of over-regulation and overly complex procedures. one of the proposals in the new legislation on the fourth railway package concerns technical compatibility, i.e. the interoperability of rail transport. the proposal will remove obstacles to the creation of a single european railway area, such as administrative and technical barriers, costs, lengthy procedures and hidden discrimination against new companies wishing to enter the railway market. i think that this proposal on interoperability is particularly beneficial for railway undertakings because it encourages them to invest in a more open market, but with clear and uniform rules. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the creation of a common european legislative framework on railway safety. the common regulation is designed to harmonise national legislation with european standards. it also introduces a better safety and reporting culture, which can improve working practices. in order to allow progress in the field of railway safety, i have decided to vote against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ since the 1980s, the european union has undertaken a series of structural measures in the rail transport sector, aiming at harmonising legislation and rail systems themselves. the main objectives of the community strategy have been to reduce costs, to ensure technical compatibility between railway systems and infrastructure and to improve safety. the cramer report, which i support, is a further step in this direction by giving the era, the european railway agency, a key role in safety certificates. the new legislation will ensure an improved safety culture by encouraging internal and external communication by railway undertakings on working practices. member states will be obliged to monitor compliance with the rules on work, rest and driving by drivers and specific arrangements will be made to ensure adequate training of staff.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with railway safety, it is agreeable and balanced, and for these reasons i voted against the proposed rejection amendment and therefore in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ to follow up on the commitment to create a single market for rail transport services, it is necessary to establish a common regulatory framework for railway safety. member states have developed safety rules and standards which are essentially national in scope, based on national technical and operational concepts, including the issuing of safety certificates by national authorities. what is needed now is a single safety certificate for the european union and a common safety policy also in the railway sector. strengthening the era by making it responsible for issuing safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in more than one member state would be a significant step forward in improving the safety culture and reporting of certain events by railway undertakings and network operators, as well as in the overall harmonisation and efficiency of the trans-european transport network. the safety and efficiency of european railways are an important part of the mobility of european citizens and of environmentally and socially sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the measure is at second reading, so no final vote is expected. the efdd group has, however, proposed rejection, which will therefore be put to the vote. this measure is part of the so-called 'fourth railway package' (qpf), a series of legislative measures aimed at modernising the eu rail transport sector. the report is signed by michael cramer (greens), a former member of the committee on transport. the subject of the measure is railway safety. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. in addition, the exchange of information on safety and risk factors will be facilitated. during the negotiations the council did, however, secure the retention of certain prerogatives of the member states. we are therefore also in favour of the measure. for example, member states will monitor the maintenance of operational capacity requirements of operators in the sector. the text also deals with the coordination of emergency services and technical assistance operations in safety investigations. the text agreed with the council was approved by a very large majority in the committee on transport. i vote against the motion to reject the whole measure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to strengthen rail safety in europe by minimising risks. a key point concerns the safety management system which will have to provide for the doubling of safety systems, as is the case in the aviation sector, for all lines of the union's rail network. at least two separate systems (on-board safety system, signals, etc.) are required to avoid exclusive dependence on one of the two systems. such dependence, in the event of technical failure or human error, could allow risks to exceed a tolerable threshold. i note that the national safety authorities do not have the means to effectively control the driving and resting times of drivers, which could undermine railway safety. given the fundamental importance of the human factor for railway safety, appropriate technical devices for recording driving and resting times should therefore be mandatory, as is the case for road transport, and other legislation should be proposed to allow regular checks to be carried out.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the creation of a common european legislative framework on railway safety. i voted in favour of this because it is an instrument designed to ensure greater security for the citizens of the european union. the aim is to harmonize safety standards and common standards for certification and accident assessment, thus overcoming certain national technical standards which differed significantly from higher european standards.
in writing. ‒ it was easy for me to vote in favour of this report, also because it, like the previous ones, aims at creating a european railway area that is not only functional but also safe. in fact, this report focuses on the security aspect, highlighting how there are still many differences in the way this matter is regulated between the various countries. i believe that a common regulatory framework for railway safety is necessary if the objective of establishing a single market for rail transport services is to be achieved. i therefore voted in favour of greater cooperation between all the member states in order to break down the few barriers that divide us and to pursue an objective which, in my view, can only benefit the whole union in economic, social and employment terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to establish a common approach to safety in the railway sector and to simplify and reform the administrative procedures for issuing safety certificates, eliminating the fragmentation of rules across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the rejection proposal because the railway safety measure is considered to be good.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement with the council on the fourth railway package and in particular the legislative resolution on the recasting of the european parliament and council directive on railway safety, because i believe it is of paramount importance to increase the safety of passengers and users in the railway sector. europe has spent much energy and money in recent decades on restructuring the railway sector, defining and setting up transeuropean networks, and introducing new technical and financial regulations to support their development. this technical pillar will finally put an end to the fragmentation of networks through regulatory, technical and legal interoperability. i particularly welcome the harmonization of safety rules, the implementation of effective interoperability of national rail systems and, in particular, the strengthening of the new responsibilities of the european railway agency, the real control tower of the rail system. it is quite clear that the attractiveness of rail transport depends to a large extent on its ability to offer users, at cross-border level, a safe, high-performance, regular and easily accessible service, particularly at a time when the development and progress of other means of communication could have marginalized rail, in short supply of investment and economic dynamism.
in writing. ‒ the security of the state and its citizens is a priority for european action. that is why i am voting in favour of the commission's proposal to establish common safety standards in the railway sector. this approach involves the implementation of a single union-wide regulation, which ensures an economic improvement linked to the system of european railway undertakings and administrative simplification. the proposal aims to amend the existing regulatory rules for the creation of a single railway safety certificate and for the management of the infrastructure and to define the responsibilities of the different bodies involved in such a way as to provide constant monitoring. i would like to stress the importance of the union's services being able to provide the european people with equal security, and i would once again express my favourable opinion on this.
in writing. ‒ regarding the key role of the establishment of a european union agency for railways, i believe that its creation would contribute to a higher level of safety in this area. however, i do not feel that i can support the proposal which has been brought to the attention of this house because i do not think it meets the needs of the community. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the first part of the fourth railway package aims to improve performance and attract investment in the sector, by promoting improved quality of service for passengers and increasing the use of rail transport. for cross-border services, applications for safety certification of railway undertakings and authorisation for locomotives and wagons will be forwarded to the european railway agency (era). the era will set up an information and communication system that will function as a single access point for all applications for safety certification and marketing authorisation. this is a positive step towards the creation of a european area of mobility and, above all, it eliminates some administrative steps which were a burden for companies in the sector. i therefore voted in favour of the second reading.
in writing. ‒ this report on the fourth railway package is intended to support the first reading of the package, which sets out the conditions for technical and safety harmonisation (of structures and staff) to ensure the interoperability of the union's rail system and its associated undertakings. i have supported this report because this package represents an important step towards the completion of the single market and for the internal and external development of the union.
in writing. in response to the need for a reform of the benchmarks for the securities market, the european institutions have proposed a half-hearted approach. despite improvements in the state of the art, the regulation exempts central banks, central public authorities and the media. following the recent financial scandals in europe, more stringent regulation was needed. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the price of many financial instruments is closely linked to the accuracy and integrity of the indices used as benchmarks. these indices are statistical measures, representative of a set of data, which are used as a reference for contracts and financial instruments. recent incidents of manipulation of the london interbank offered rate (libor) and other cases of alleged manipulation have brought the vulnerability of these measures to the attention of the public. the van nieuwenhuizen report addresses this issue and that of macroprudential risks in benchmarks by proposing a strategy based on improving governance measures and mitigating conflicts of interest. the text, which i supported with my vote, places particular emphasis on the fundamental distinction between critical and less critical reference values, establishing a two-tiered approach to their determination. for critical benchmarks in particular, the new legislation will impose binding governance requirements in line with and based on the internationally agreed iosco principles. the entire package of measures will ensure increased transparency while maintaining the supply and access to a wide variety of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ the problem raised by the report is concrete and shared, but unfortunately it is not addressed clearly and could leave room for future manipulation and criticism, which is why i preferred to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the common framework it introduces that can ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the union. this safeguards the proper functioning of the internal market, while ensuring a high level of consumer and investor protection.
in writing. ‒ in the case of indices, the problem is real (who controls the euribor?), but it is tackled in an abstract way. the regulation is illegible and there is a risk that it will leave the american data suppliers free to do so. the amendments proposed by the committee are acceptable, but possible manipulation can already be detected without any 'invasion' by the controller. right principle but a disturbing decline in the same. abstention from voting
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation introducing a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the union. serious cases of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as libor and euribor and of currency benchmarks, which cause considerable losses to consumers and investors (as well as destroying public confidence in the financial sector), have necessitated a comprehensive approach to the issue. the regulation has three main objectives: first, strengthen governance systems and standards to reduce their vulnerability to manipulation and abuse; secondly, to enhance transparency by making more information available to users of all benchmarks in order to enable them to make informed decisions; third, to maintain the supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks by applying governance requirements in a proportionate manner. for all these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation provides for specific regulation of the benchmarks of financial instruments and related contracts at european level. the need for such a measure was brought to light by the recent euribor and libor value manipulation scandals involving some large banks. unfortunately, although the provisions of the regulation do not contain any major criticisms, the worrying fact emerges that it is precisely the large central banks, public authorities and central counterparties that are exempted from the scope of application. therefore, as this is half-baked legislation which does not meet the needs of the real economy, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to give an effective answer to the question of the manipulation of reference values for currencies and all related issues. i think it is essential to make it clear that this manipulation is illegal and i also think it is necessary to provide for criminal prosecution. i voted in favour of this because i think that this issue should not be underestimated, especially given its importance for the normal functioning and stability of financial and commodity markets. i also think it is essential, especially when it comes to the economy, to ensure the greatest possible transparency and i believe that this report is moving in that direction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts directly or indirectly affect the vast majority of european citizens, but also various markets such as energy. given the scale and impact of indices on the european financial system, it is necessary to provide for appropriate regulation that reduces vulnerability to manipulation and abuse of indices, that enhances transparency by providing users with all necessary information on all benchmarks to enable them to make informed decisions, and that maintains the supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks by applying governance requirements in a proportionate manner, while also ensuring a level playing field for all administrators, both european and those located in third countries. in view of these considerations, i felt i had to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ accurate and reliable financial benchmarks are essential to ensure the proper functioning of financial markets, to improve their operating conditions and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection. i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that a common framework at european level can ensure the integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because in recent years there have been numerous irregularities in the field of financial securities. the commission stresses the importance of establishing an efficient system of controls in order to avoid systematic manipulation of financial indices.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because the amendments proposed by the committee may be acceptable, but the regulation is confusing and there is a risk of possible manipulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached with the council on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, because i believe that the new regulation will prevent stock market index manipulation in the future. the need for regulation was triggered by the scandals surrounding the serious manipulation of libor and euribor and foreign currency reference values, which caused considerable losses for consumers and investors, and which further undermined public confidence in the financial sector, which had already been put to the test by the crisis and confronted with the need for new rules to ensure the stability of the financial system as a whole. although this is a regulation which is mainly directed at the interbank credit market, in reality it also applies inter alia to the assessment of the performance of investment funds, and citizens are also interested in the integrity and proper functioning of these indices, since the euribor rate is measured as part of the cost of obtaining mortgage loans. i agreed with the extension of the scope of the regulation, the introduction of the systemic index category, the exclusive supervisory and proposing role of esma.
in writing. ‒ the eu has planned to implement an amendment to the legislation on market abuse, clarifying and specifying that the manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and therefore any behaviour or conduct in breach of the regulatory systems must be punishable by criminal law. i think i share the view that the commission should strengthen and increase the application of these sanctioning regimes as soon as violations are established.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the main objective of this report is to ensure adequate protection of consumers and investors using benchmarks by increasing transparency, ensuring adequate rights of redress and assessing suitability where necessary.
in writing. ‒ indices affect, directly or indirectly, the vast majority of european citizens. their use has affected all financial instruments: derivatives, equities and bonds, as well as physical and commodity markets. alleged attempts to manipulate commodity price assessments provided by price-fixing agencies are currently being investigated by the competent authorities. i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that it is necessary to regulate and prevent the risks of manipulation in order to protect investors and punish offenders.
in writing. ‒ given the influence of indices on the european financial system as well as on physical energy markets and thus on the majority of european citizens, it is necessary to emphasise that the current self-regulatory situation has proven inefficient. it is therefore necessary to reconsider the legislation that, on the one hand, examines the reliability of the valuation of price reporting agencies, thereby facilitating the task of market authorities to determine whether a price reported by a price reporting agency can be considered representative of actual physical market data, and, on the other hand, combats distortions or other abuses. in the light of these considerations, i welcome the legislative initiative as amended by the commission of which i am a member. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of the london interbank offered rate (libor), currency benchmarks and the alleged manipulation of other currency indices have highlighted the importance of benchmarks as well as their vulnerability. in response to these manipulations, the eu amended its market abuse legislation to clarify that the manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and to criminalise such conduct. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to combat these illegal practices which are harmful to the european economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's proposal on european legislation on the use of libor and euribor reference rates. the european union is seeking to respond with stricter regulation to possible market abuse linked to the issuance of financial instruments linked to these indices. the report also calls for the european market safety authority (esma) to be given the power to take direct action against any attempt at manipulation.
in writing. ‒ recent cases of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks, such as libor and euribor, have highlighted the importance and weaknesses of benchmarks used in financial products. the regulation adopted today has three main objectives: strengthen governance systems and standards, in particular for widely used benchmarks, enhance transparency by making more information available to users and maintain the supply and access to a wide variety of benchmarks by ensuring a level playing field for all administrators, both european and third country. i believe that the adoption of this new regulation can help to increase the robustness and reliability of benchmarks and to prevent their manipulation, thus strengthening consumer and investor confidence in financial markets. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. this regulation provided an opportunity to introduce effective measures against the risks of manipulation of indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and contracts, which can have a significant negative impact on the real economy, consumers, financial stability, or the financing of households and businesses. while i acknowledge that some progress has been made in terms of strengthening governance and control requirements, introducing mechanisms for managing conflicts of interest, and with stricter supervision, or even with the requirement for prior authorisation for all index managers, i nevertheless believe that this regulation has sacrificed the most important pillar for effectively tackling abuse, transparency. there is no transparency regarding the data used to construct the indices, and the obligation to publish the methodology is limited to key elements that are not well defined. i therefore believe that, despite the significant improvements in governance and supervision, this regulation will not be able to prevent the recurrence of scandals such as the one involving the euribor and libor indices, with losses of over eur 3 billion for the 2.5 million italian households who had taken out a euribor-linked mortgage. for these reasons i could not support this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the need for specific regulation of benchmarks at european level arises from the recent and various scandals involving the manipulation of the value of euribor and libor by some large banks. this has highlighted not only the importance of these benchmarks in the financial markets, but also the various weaknesses in their determination and use. the aim of the regulation is to prevent the manipulation of benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts in order to safeguard consumers and the integrity of the financial market. the parliament's text is significantly improved on the commission's initial proposal, but important criticisms remain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the regulation exempts central banks, public authorities, central counterparties and even the media from this purpose. unfortunately, this exemption remains in the text of the trilogues with the council and the commission, which is why i abstained. i think it is necessary, especially in the light of the recent scandals, to have the broadest possible regulation, but as usual, half-hearted legislation is preferred which never responds to the real needs of the real economy.
in writing. ‒ the resolution accompanying the discharge for the commission and its executive agencies describes the state of play and suggests ways of improving. firstly, the inability to estimate the reliability and regularity of the data without errors. from this year onwards, the report also estimates performance, but even on this parameter, the indicators are not sufficiently representative of reality. finally, the report points to serious shortcomings in controls at member state level. for these reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the dlabajová report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european commission and its six executive agencies: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. the text adopted calls in particular on the commission to adopt a more balanced approach to the budget in future, capable of integrating traditional methods with a greater focus on performance and results.
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical insights which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget for the commission and the executive agencies because i believe that their finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, for this prerogative to be fully exercised, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ apart from detailed comments, which may occasionally be shared in their critical content (e.g. on the 'external dimension' of the eeas and the edf), a vote in favour would in fact amount to a vote of confidence in the commission. impossible from our point of view. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii, commission and executive agencies because the court of auditors delivered a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts for 2014, as it has done since 2007, and concluded that revenue in 2014 was free from material error; the commitments underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 december 2014 are, in all respects, adequate, legal and regular. i fully support the proposal for a budget geared to results, which requires meaningful and solid indicators. those indicators should be agreed with the co-legislators, the commission and through extensive consultation with member states' authorities and other stakeholders. the recent establishment of the interinstitutional working group on budget performance with a focus on results was therefore appropriate, but it is nevertheless necessary for all parties concerned to accelerate their activities while ensuring that a set of high quality indicators is agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it not only provides for control of the funds so that they are spent in a legitimate and regular manner but also so that the political objectives for which they are intended are achieved. i think it is essential that the european union's resources should be invested in such a way that the objectives for which they were earmarked are actually achieved. my intention with this vote is to lay the right foundations for these resources to be respected and used in the most appropriate way, and this report calls on the commission to make a number of commitments to ensure a rapid recovery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the european union, including the discharge for the commission and the executive agencies. in view of the positive opinion of the court of auditors and in the absence of serious irregularities and errors, i considered it appropriate to approve the document in question.
in writing. ‒ as the regi committee, we wanted to emphasise, among other things, the role of the commission in simplifying and improving the absorption of cohesion policy funds. the commission must, inter alia, ensure that beneficiaries receive consistent information on the conditions of funding, in particular on the eligibility of expenditure; it should also contribute to the simplification of enforcement at national and regional level, also taking into account the institutional specificities of the member states, by providing clarification on the application of the regulations and by eliminating unnecessary administrative and regulatory burdens. in the same vein, the commission should take a proactive approach by promoting the exchange of knowledge and good practice on the administrative capacity of local authorities, which is essential for the correct and efficient use of funds, including by addressing specific implementation issues (public procurement, state aid, eligibility criteria or controls) and by offering support to potential beneficiaries with limited financial capacity. cohesion policy is a recognised instrument for development and growth; in a low investment phase, it is in the commission's interest to put beneficiaries in the best position to make the best use of available resources, creating the right environment for a functional absorption of growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the implementation of the commission's and the executive agencies' budgets because they have several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also found. i believe it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european institutions less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. in this period of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for adopting the discharge of the 2014 budget of the commission as it is my opinion that the commission used its 2014 funds according to the established budgetary rules. however i do share several of the concerns towards the commission that are voiced in the report. i am concerned over the continuous high error rate in the funding and the improvements needed in the process of declaring performance and results. as well as concerns there have also been some important improvements, like improving management methods, a stronger focus on performance and results in the budget and a stronger linkage between the budget and eu policy strategy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the general budget of the eu, the commission and the executive agencies. as a rule, parliament not only checks whether the funds used have been spent in a lawful and legitimate manner, but also whether the objectives achieved have been the subject of sound financial management. in general, both the european commission and the executive agencies have acted and implemented eu policies in accordance with the correct rules of sound financial management, pursuing the public interest, and for these reasons we have decided to grant discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in view of the work of the commissions and executive agencies mentioned in the report under discussion, i believe i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against the commission's discharge in the first place because, for the 21st consecutive year, the court of auditors has ruled that payments are affected by errors to a significant extent due to the only partial effectiveness of the supervisory and control systems and their most likely error rate was 4.4%. weaknesses remain in the procedures for allocating funds, in particular with regard to procurement procedures. in addition, responsibility for the use of the union budget lies largely with the member states and 76% of expenditure is shared management: the commission has not yet succeeded in finding an effective control system to prevent abuse and waste, despite the fact that in recent years it has increasingly resorted to suspension of expenditure in cases of fraud. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 were made in accordance with the provisions of the stability and growth pact. however, the commission has not been able to assess the actual results of its policies (co-financed by the union budget). in practice, the union continues to spend, without regard for the results, without putting in place a really effective system of control over the use of its funds.
in writing. ‒ the resolution accompanying the discharge for the commission and its executive agencies offers a number of indications both on the situation in 2014 and on how to improve the current situation. the court found, on the basis of its own checks, that the most likely error rate was 4,4% of payments: for the 21st time, the court of auditors has not been able to give a positive statement of assurance on the legality and regularity of payments. the report focuses not only on the error rate but also on performance, as required by the new mff. however, indicators are still lacking to provide a proper assessment of the effectiveness of the spending of european funds. the errors detected are mostly due to weak controls at member state level: however, 2014 saw a significant increase in the error rate in operational expenditure managed directly by the commission, which reached the same level as the error rate for expenditure under shared management with the member states. the report has a good critical apparatus, but some references make it difficult to support it, and for that reason i voted against and ask for the commission's discharge to be postponed.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors draws up special reports containing information of interest for the implementation of the funds or which form an integral part of the discharge. the reports are a good source of information on various topics of interest, including monitoring systems on europeaid, rural development and the youth guarantee programme. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. the dlabajová report on the special reports produced by the court of auditors in the framework of the 2014 budgetary discharge procedure for the european commission is a positive example of how institutional cooperation can lead to an improvement in the use of the union's internal resources. the text, which i support, particularly welcomes the recommendations and conclusions contained in the court's reports and largely underlines the value of its analyses and proposals. the court considers that the union's accounts are regular and legal, although there is still some margin of error.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote is balanced and contains criticisms and highlights of the european commission which i find to be shared, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the commission should follow more closely the court of auditors' advice on the management of its financial resources in order to allow for a more prudent management that is more in line with the criteria of economy and efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budget, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of sincere cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over over 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the text, which forms an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu, examines each of the court of auditors' reports concerning the various activities of the eu. the court of auditors is generally rather picky in its observations on the commission, so we can vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2014, and i think it is appropriate to make some comments, in particular on the reports on 'errors in rural development spending' and 'integrity and implementation of the ets'. the management and control costs (eur 4 billion) for the whole cap are considerable and the emphasis should be on improving the efficiency of controls rather than on increasing them: in this respect, member states should take preventive and corrective action in the field of public procurement, deliberate circumvention of rules and agri-environmental payments. as regards the implementation of the ets, it is essential to take all necessary measures to avoid carbon leakage and to ensure fair international competition under the current measures for the free allocation of emission allowances, and the commission should therefore carry out an assessment of the companies and industrial sectors at risk of carbon leakage in order to clearly identify areas where european industry has experienced losses of activity to countries where no stringent climate standards are in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems facing the court of auditors in the context of the commission's discharge, encourages the court to examine all funding mechanisms and believes that projects funded by the union should be in line with its programming objectives in neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this discharge, as of the previous one, is to make the european commission more accountable for the political expenditure it supports. there are many common objectives which we as a union wish to pursue and it is therefore necessary, in my view, to optimise resources so that these objectives can be achieved as quickly as possible with the best possible result.
in writing. ‒ i have hereby voted in favour of the court of auditors' special report on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the court's special reports in the context of the commission's discharge present a number of topics, which are dealt with in an exhaustive manner. the proposal is divided into 25 parts and analyses in economic terms the following main themes: europeaid's results-oriented evaluation and monitoring (erm) systems; the principle of cost-effectiveness; eu support for the prevention of environmental damage; rural development; maritime transport; safeguards for young people; the energy market and the fight against torture and the death penalty. following the proposal of the rapporteur, whom i thank for the work she has done in this procedure, i support this report.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the court of auditors' testimony, i support the report in the context of the commission's discharge prepared by mrs martina dlabajová. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report shows a critical apparatus for the management system of the european development fund (edf) in reports on projects concerning cooperation and development with acp countries. the report criticises the increase in the estimated error rate from 3.0% to 3.8%. the report cites the increase in the error rate as being due to the lack of information to prevent the quantification of errors and the non-compliance with procurement rules. another reason for the increase in the error rate is inherent in the way the edf is implemented: the edf operates over a wide geographical area and therefore it is difficult to optimise control and transparency systems. i have decided to vote in favour of the report because of its critical approach to the way the funds are managed.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the schmidt report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th edfs. the text adopted calls for greater ambition in the strategy, management and accountability of edf funds; stressing the existence of scope to optimise the resilience of all its activities through a strengthening of the criteria of economic and financial efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical insights which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge of the 2014 budget for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th european development funds because i believe that its management has been implemented in line with the european parliament's plans for the year in question. i voted against the resolution because i do not agree with its content and the solutions it proposes.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ despite the criticisms raised, discharge is granted. i am voting against it, however, because parliament is calling for the 'communitarisation' of the edf, i.e. its inclusion in the general budget of the eu, and because it is intended to 'expand the visibility and credibility of the union and promote its values' in the beneficiary countries (in other words: 'export democracy').
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of my political group, i voted today against the motion for a resolution by the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. in particular, the negative vote was the result of a key amendment, previously approved, which would have committed some 25-30% of the edf to resolving the problem of immigrants through return policies, in line with the eu-turkey agreement, resulting in misuse of the european development fund, which is intended to support actions in developing countries and territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european development fund because, although the fund is the main instrument of cooperation for providing union aid for development cooperation to the african, caribbean and pacific states, there are still problems with spending control. the error rate estimated by the court of auditors for three consecutive years, from 2012 to 2014, increased from 3,0 to 3,8%, still lower than that found within the european union, but there is no real control over how the funds are spent. the failure of the beneficiaries to comply with the procurement rules and the absence of documents to support expenditure are the two main causes of error and there is a lack of real political will to assess not only the fairness of expenditure but also its effectiveness in qualitative terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the european development fund (edf) because it seeks to use the edf first of all to strengthen strongly the supervision of the policy actions to which the edf is directed and, secondly, to devise a comprehensive response to the economic crisis in which we find ourselves. i also believe that greater transparency in the use of these funds is needed, and that was another reason for me to vote in favour of this report because i think it is moving in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on discharge for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds, as i believe that there is an absolute need to improve and strengthen the supervision of operations and the process to ensure management, with an improvement in risk assessment and consequently monitoring systems.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, considers that it is appropriate to vote in favour of discharge for the financial year 2014; the commission has also received comments from the french authorities.
in writing. ‒ i consider that, as stated in the report, the accounts and the annual forecasts contained in the report do not present all the elements which would allow me to vote in favour. i therefore feel i must vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european development fund because, although the fund is the main cooperation instrument for providing eu development aid to the african, caribbean and pacific states, there are still problems with spending control. the error rate estimated by the court of auditors for three consecutive years, from 2012 to 2014, increased from 3,0 % to 3,8%, remaining lower than that found within the eu. however, there is a lack of effective control over how funds are spent, both because the supervision and control systems at europeaid's headquarters and union delegations are considered only partially effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of payments and because a large amount of expenditure is made through budget support to the countries funded. the failure of the beneficiaries to comply with the procurement rules and the absence of documents to support expenditure are the two main causes of error and there is a lack of real political will to assess not only the fairness of expenditure but also its effectiveness in qualitative terms.
in writing. ‒ the european development fund (edf) is the union's most important financial instrument for development cooperation with the acp states. the edf shall be implemented through projects and budget support. the court of auditors estimates that the error rate for edf expenditure has increased from 3,0% to 3,8% between 2012 and 2014, which is clearly too high. the commission does not have sufficient information to prevent, detect and correct quantifiable errors before validating and accepting expenditure, which would have resulted in a lower error rate of as much as 2,3 percentage points. most of the errors are due to non-compliance with the procurement rules. the edf is implemented through a number of modus operandi and different methods of implementation with complex rules and procedures, which present a high degree of inherent risk, making it difficult to optimise control systems and to improve the transparency of edf funding. there are still shortcomings in the management information system on the results and follow-up of external expenditure audits and verifications. that is why i voted in favour of the report, which has a good critical apparatus, but i am against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has asked parliament to strengthen its controls on expenditure reimbursed to parties and associated organisations, but we believe that this request has not been accepted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. for these reasons i voted against the motion for a resolution on discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the pieper report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european parliament. the text adopted notes that the accounts give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european parliament in all material respects and sets out the various expenditure items for the 2014 budget, which amounted to eur 1 755 631 742.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that the text contains strong criticism of waste and numerous shortcomings, the motion for a resolution also retains some of the content that cannot be shared, which led me not to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european parliament because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, for this prerogative to be fully exercised, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over over 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that the text contains strong criticism of waste and numerous omissions, the motion for a resolution also retains some of the content that cannot be shared, such as complacency for initiatives that we do not share at all or a certain exaggeration of the environmental issue. the debate on the role and travels of president schulz is full of amendments for and against. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i european parliament because, on the whole, the audits carried out by the court of auditors show that expenditure under the heading 'administration' is not affected by a significant level of error and that the estimated error rate under heading 5 'administration' of the mff is 0,5% (down from 1% in 2013). the only comment i have to make is on the age-old question of the single seat of the european parliament. the court of auditors' report adopted on 11 july 2014 shows that if parliament centralised its activities, the potential savings for the union budget would be around eur 114 million per year: a waste we can no longer afford. the european parliament and the council should, in order to achieve long-term savings, address the question of the need for a roadmap for the establishment of a single seat, as has already been supported by parliament in many previous resolutions.
in writing. ‒ to underline my disagreement with the spending criteria used so far, i have decided to vote against parliament's discharge. i am sorry to say that there is still a lack of real will to save where it is necessary and possible: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. although the plenary voted in favour of an amendment tabled by our delegation, which calls for full transparency of members' general expenditure, there are still many areas to be improved, starting with the impact of lobbyists on members' political decisions, or the lack of an organic and systematic procedure to avoid conflicts of interest for those working in parliament.
in writing. ‒ a favourable vote is as important as it is sensitive because it concerns the european parliament's expenditure and costs. i am in favour of greater savings wherever possible without affecting the operation and efficiency of the institutional machinery, especially as the european parliament's expenditure is still high. for example, i will never cease to point out the enormous waste of the european parliament's two seats, which means that every month we have to travel to strasbourg for a week just to vote, when brussels provides the necessary structure to respond and adequately meet the needs of the european parliament. i think it is time, when it comes to saving, to ask the right questions, especially since we already know the answers: no more waste!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2014 and following the opinions of the court of auditors on the reliability of the 2014 accounts on the legality and regularity of the transactions which certified the correctness of the expenditure incurred and recorded by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european parliament's budget. the report highlights a number of critical points, such as the double headquarters, the increase in the budget line for the visitor centre, or the house of european history project. these are just some of the problems identified, which in the eyes of european citizens represent a waste of resources and tend to increase their detachment and distrust of the community institutions. a vote against expressing the need for an eu that focuses its efforts and resources more towards the real needs of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported granting discharge in respect of the european parliament’s 2014 budget on the basis that the use of the funds in the budget followed the established rules. on a personal note, i think that parliament’s spending is well controlled and that significant progress has been made in several areas. one example of progress is the estimated error rate in administrative work: it was 1% in 2013 and was halved to 0.5% in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the european parliament being given discharge. it shall take into account all assessments made of the legality and appropriateness of the expenditure. they are essential to ensure the proper functioning of the european parliament and to enable us members to fulfil our mandate as the direct expression of the people in the best possible way, making efficient use of the public resources at our disposal. these are activities which need to be monitored constantly in the performance of our duties and i welcome criticism and suggestions for improving their effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ considering that, in his certification of the final accounts for 2014, parliament's accounting officer has certified that the accounts give a true and fair view of parliament's financial position, i considered that i should vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the findings of the court of auditors and the internal auditor for the financial year 2014, i am happy to vote in favour of the discharge report as submitted to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the granting of parliament's discharge to underline my disagreement with the spending criteria used so far. i would remind you that parliament's budget was eur 1 755 631 742 in 2014. unfortunately, there is still no real will to make savings wherever necessary and possible: european political parties and foundations shall continue to be funded; the desire for a single seat for parliament, expressed several times by voting in plenary, is not being met, although it could save up to eur 180 million per year; the house of european history project is still being pursued, although the time and cost of its completion have gone beyond all decency. although the plenary voted in favour of an amendment tabled by our delegation, which calls for full transparency of members' general expenditure, there are still many areas for improvement, starting with the impact of lobbyists on members' political decisions and the lack of a serious policy on conflicts of interest among those working in parliament.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary expenditure of the european parliament for 2014 amounted to eur 1 476 824 398. the court of auditors found no material error, but called on parliament to strengthen controls on expenditure reimbursed by european political parties to their affiliated organisations and to define appropriate rules for political parties in the field of public procurement. the report highlights some key issues in the financial management of the european parliament: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the transparency of members' general expenses, the transparency register and conflicts of interest, the cost of the house of european history and the lux prize, the new rules on the number of assistants and finally the costs of interpreters and the protection of linguistic diversity. the report is generally balanced and proposes measures to improve the economic efficiency of parliament. however, the fact that parliament continues to finance european political parties and foundations and that there has been an agreement between the two largest groups to remove the more inconvenient parts of the president's protection has made me inclined towards a negative vote on the report.
in writing. ‒ the discharge decision, by which the european parliament concludes a certain budgetary phase, allows it to exercise control over the other bodies, which is mainly political in nature. the decision is generally taken on the basis of the annual report drawn up by the court of auditors and certain recommendations from the council. i have decided to vote in favour of the section on the european council and the council, considering that the report on revenue and expenditure is structured in a coherent and comprehensive way.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report on the postponement of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the council and the european council. for years now, parliament has been asking the council to provide full data on the implementation of the budget, but has received little cooperation from this institution. in view of the lack of transparency in budgetary and accounting data, parliament decided, as in previous years, to vote for a postponement of discharge, as the conditions were not present for expressing an appropriate assessment of council expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure allows the european parliament to exercise ex-post democratic control over the way the eu budget is used. i intend to vote in favour of this report and therefore not to grant discharge to the european council and the council, because once again the usual practice is that these institutions refuse to provide the information necessary to enable parliament to monitor expenditure transparently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision against granting discharge for the 2014 budget to the european council and the council of the european union because i believe that the management of their financial resources is less transparent than it could be and that a clear improvement is needed in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote for it. as in most years, the resolution accompanying the (negative) opinion on the discharge of the council's budget is, for 'calling' reasons, one of the most interesting. once again, the council is criticised for its lack of transparency, which is far from the minimum standards of quality and openness to the information needs of the public. the council itself, however, does not seem to be interested in responding to the requests of the ep and the mep either.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2014. the council, like other union institutions, should be transparent and fully accountable to union citizens for the funds entrusted to it by participating fully and in good faith in the annual discharge procedure. the capacity for dialogue between parliament and the council needs to be improved in order to find a solution as soon as possible to meet the mandate given to them by the treaty and the need to be accountable to citizens. without the cooperation of the council, parliament cannot be in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision requesting the postponement of the council's discharge because, for the eighth consecutive year, the european parliament is sending this politically strong signal against the council's decision not to recognise parliament's role in the discharge procedure and to refuse to answer the questions that parliament sends to all the institutions and bodies of the european union on the reporting of expenditure in order to allow for real control. in doing so, the council denies european citizens access to all data concerning its administrative expenditure and, in effect, deprives them of the possibility of democratic control over the use of european citizens' money. the only directly elected body is the parliament, and one of its tasks, as recognised by the treaties, is to grant discharge after verifying that expenditure is correct. failure to recognise its role means diminishing all european citizens in their democratic role as voters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to postpone the 2014 discharge for the european council and the council because, in essence, i believe that these institutions have not adhered to the principle of transparency on which the entire control of the union budget is based. in my view, especially when it comes to such sensitive economic issues, it is not enough to act in accordance with the rules but i believe that all citizens of the union should act with ever greater transparency in accordance with the trust we have been given.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge to the european council and the council for the financial year 2014, sharing the need expressed by the report to postpone its adoption because of the current lack of the necessary conditions for verifying the correctness and transparency of the expenditure reported. i also believe that the european council and the council should work to improve the management of the shortcomings identified, correct the errors identified by the court and develop key performance indicators to improve budget planning. the council is required to be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union by participating in the annual discharge procedure, like the other european institutions. i also reiterate that the budget of the european council and that of the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of the financial management of the institutions and to a greater sense of responsibility on the part of both institutions. finally, i am concerned that the two institutions have been reluctant to provide full and timely answers to parliament's requests for information, which has prevented parliament from adopting the discharge decision in an informed manner, and that i therefore believe that the postponement of approval is a proper act.
in writing. ‒ the decision to vote in favour of postponing the granting of discharge is due to the fact that since 2009 the council has refused to cooperate with the discharge procedure implemented by parliament, failing to provide the necessary information, failing to reply to written questions and failing to follow hearings and debates on the implementation of its budget. this has resulted in more than €3 billion of public money being spent without proper scrutiny. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the correction of the budgetary imbalance in the financial perspective are not sufficient to cover the costs of the correction of the budgetary imbalance.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the subject-matter of the following report, it is noted that the court of auditors found that the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. the court also noted that a small number of errors in the calculation of staff costs and shortcomings in the family allowances were found in the aspects audited for the european council and the council. however, eu institutions and bodies which do not yet have a code of conduct are invited to find a compromise to achieve the right balance within them. i am in favour of the proposal for discharge.
in writing. ‒while i would like to see a separation between the budget of the european council and that of the council in order to implement transparency in the financial management of the institutions, i think i support the proposal of my colleague. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by which parliament postpones the budget of the european council. parliament called for the european council, one of the three most important institutions of the union, to adopt the same transparency criteria as the other bodies, and endorsed the european commission's comments calling for greater cooperation between the various institutions in the pursuit of transparency and the financial interests of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision requesting the council's discharge to be postponed: this is the eighth consecutive year that the european parliament has decided to send this politically strong signal against the council's decision not to recognise parliament's role in the discharge procedure and to refuse to answer the questions that parliament sends to all the institutions and bodies of the european union on the reporting of expenditure in order to allow for real control. but in doing so, the council denies european citizens access to data on its administrative expenditure and, in effect, deprives them of the possibility of democratic control over the use of european citizens' money. the only directly elected body is the parliament, and one of its tasks, as recognised by the treaties, is to grant discharge after verifying that expenditure is correct. failure to recognise its role means diminishing all european citizens in their democratic role as voters.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vistisen report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the court of justice. the text emphasises the absence of significant weaknesses in the aspects audited, the absence of significant errors in expenditure and the increase in the rate of utilisation of appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree with the positions taken in the vistisen report on the general budget of the union and the court of justice, and therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the 2014 budget for the budget of the court of justice of the european union because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in accordance with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote against. apart from some important steps on the need for transparency and clarification on certain expenditure items, the resolution accompanying the discharge for the court of auditors does not represent particularly interesting or worthy of a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv court of justice because the court of auditors, on the basis of the audit work carried out, concluded that the payments relating to the financial year ended 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error. the court of justice had a total of eur 355 367 500 in 2014 (compared to eur 354 880 000 in 2013) and an implementation rate of 99%. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. i note that the court gave its opinion last january, providing the information concerning the list of external activities of judges, which had been requested during the exchange of views in the committee on discharge for 2014. however, in the interests of greater transparency, all information concerning the external activities of each judge, as well as their declarations of financial interests, should be made publicly available by publication on the website of the court of justice and included in its annual activity reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice, as is well known, enjoys the status of an institution of the european union and therefore has the same dignity as the parliament and the council. while the latter institutions are called upon to play the key role of co-legislator, the court has the delicate task of ensuring that union law is correctly applied and interpreted. it contributes, in a certain sense, to the very formation of that body of legislation, since its case-law makes it possible to define more precisely the scope and the contours of the provisions of the treaties and of secondary legislation. it also ensures that all those who are subject to eu law, including eu member states and the institutions that make the law, comply with it. the court of justice is therefore the ultimate expression of the rule of law framework in which the union operates. it is therefore essential that it should be able to exercise its mandate fully and therefore not only enjoy the prerogatives of independence but also have adequate resources for its task. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the discharge for the financial item for this institution.
in writing. ‒ the report is clear: the court of justice in 2014 worked well. the documents show that the court's expenditure was made conscientiously and with full respect for the resources entrusted to it. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour, also to encourage the court of justice to continue to improve the use of existing resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 and on the court of justice of the european union. the court of auditors, on the basis of the audit work carried out, certified the reliability and absence of material errors in the payments for the financial year 2014 for administrative and other expenditure. in addition, the internal reforms implemented in 2014 indicate a gradual improvement in the use of existing resources.
in writing. ‒ my vote against the report on the discharge to the court of justice is based on the findings of the court of auditors. although no significant weaknesses were identified in the aspects audited, the court of auditors expressed its willingness to review the court of justice in order to properly assess its performance, leaving the problem of high and unjustified costs and the lack of transparency of this fundamental institution of the union unresolved.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors found that the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. the report on the eu court of justice is generally positive and encourages the court to continue to use the available resources, considering that internal reforms have contributed to an improvement in their use. it also called on the court to make greater use of technology to avoid printing costs and considered that savings could be made, inter alia, in the field of translations. for these reasons, i think i shall vote in favour of the proposal to grant discharge to the court of justice from the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i share the observations made in the report and, having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors, which acknowledges that there are no material errors, i approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section iv court of justice. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's decision on discharge releases the institutions under scrutiny from management responsibilities and thus closes the budgetary cycle. in short, it is a purely political control which ensures supervision of the income and expenditure of the various european institutions. the discharge report for the 2014 european budget in the section dedicated to the european court of auditors reveals some waste and shortcomings in budget implementation. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report on the discharge for the court of auditors for the 2014 budget. the text emphasises that the court's accounts are audited by an independent external auditor, who has certified the financial situation as sound and stresses that the court's budget is purely administrative with a large part of the funds used for expenditure relating to the institution's staff.
in writing. ‒ i believe that an institution with an annual budget of eur 133.5 million could be subject to significant structural cuts which are still not there, which is why i did not intend to support the granting of discharge to the auditor general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the court of auditors because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote against. resolution too favourable to the 2014 budget of the court of auditors. however, an institution that cost €133.5 million in 2014 could be subject to much larger structural cuts.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v court of auditors because, on the basis of the opinion of the independent external auditor, 'the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors'. the final appropriations of the court of auditors totalled eur 133 498 000 (compared to eur 142 761 000 in 2013) and the overall budget implementation rate was 98,8% compared to 92% in 2013. the improvement in the rate of implementation with a reduced budget is therefore noteworthy. i fully agree that the recommendations contained in the special reports should be clearer, and therefore present the positive and negative behaviour of the countries concerned in a consistent way; the court should also, for the sake of completeness of information, include in its annual activity reports, in compliance with the rules in force on confidentiality and data protection, the results and consequences of cases closed by olaf in which the institution or any person in its service was the subject of the investigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it clearly states that the court of auditors has been subject to an audit of expenditure similar to the audits it itself carries out vis-à-vis the other european institutions. i am satisfied, not only with the analysis of expenditure in general, but also with the way in which the same principles of transparency and accountability have been applied to the court, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014 in respect of the court of auditors, which is also subject to the same principles of transparency and accountability as those it normally applies to the bodies it audits. in particular, the court's annual accounts, which have been audited by an independent external auditor, have been found to be capable of giving a true and fair view of its financial situation. i also welcome the court's reform project launched at the end of 2014, which aims to streamline the audit process, transform the court into a functional organisation and expand the scope of staff work.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the granting of the budget discharge. in addition to the need for a more precise assessment of the budget, the report raises a number of critical points, such as those concerning the special reports, both in terms of timing and their content, which is often unclear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the court of auditors plays a key role in guiding and monitoring the spending of european union funds. this year in particular we have been able to benefit greatly from the conclusions and above all from the recommendations for the use of rural funds, which are not always used efficiently by the regions. the projects that local authorities have financed have not lived up to expectations and have not created the added value, growth and employment that structural interventions are designed to produce. the court's recommendations are necessary and are a service, especially for the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my positive opinion on this report. it is noted that the court of auditors' annual accounts are audited by a fully independent external auditor in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court to audited entities. this is because the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors. following the independent review, i vote in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the 2014 general budget of the eu. in addition to the planned reduction in staff without any deterioration in the quality of work carried out, there were concerns about reductions in expenditure in some specific areas.
in writing. ‒ i share the observations made in the report and, considering that the amounts are mostly administrative and are used for expenditure relating to persons working within the institution, i approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section v court of auditors. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vistisen report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european economic and social committee. the text emphasises that the committee's accounts for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error. most of the expenditure is related to staff, buildings, furniture and equipment.
in writing. ‒ the progress the economic and social committee has made recently does not seem to me to be sufficient to give it a positive assessment. i therefore did not support the discharge with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european economic and social committee because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution accompanying the decision to grant discharge. the resolution welcomes a number of advances which the economic and social committee has made in recent years. in fact, we do not think that these elements are at all sufficient to give a positive opinion of an institution whose uselessness we have repeatedly pointed out in the past.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi european economic and social committee because, in response to the observations of the court of auditors which, in its annual report 2014, drew the attention of the european economic and social committee (eesc) to some shortcomings found in four of the 15 tender procedures examined, the eesc has set up a specific support service for public procurement in order to assist the individual directorates. i believe that the cooperation agreement between the eesc and parliament, including two annexes on administrative cooperation and budgetary implications, and the parallel agreement between parliament and the committee of the regions, aimed at developing political and administrative cooperation, still have room for improvement: these three institutions need to be able to develop further synergies that increase productivity in the areas of cooperation, at all levels, and to make concrete and detailed arrangements for the operation of the services shared by the three institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ the data presented in this declaration are generally satisfactory, but there is still much to be done to achieve ever greater savings. for example, in this case i think the costs of travel and allowance reimbursement are quite high, but i am sure that the committee will be able to devise a sound systematic strategy to reduce these costs considerably. i am confident, especially on the basis of the report which shows how the resources have been administered in a general and positive way with a view to saving, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget presented by the economic and social committee (esc). the court of auditors has confirmed that payments for administrative and other expenditure by the institutions and bodies of the eesc are, on the whole, free from material error. the parliament's report, however, points to room for improvement in the agreement, especially in the political field, encouraging the development of further synergies between the institutions in order to improve productivity in areas of cooperation. increased institutional cooperation can improve the communication and visibility of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote against the report presented on the discharge of the economic and social committee, as the budget presented a reduction of just £1.19%, with an overall cost that is still too high and too burdensome for public finances. it is therefore clear that more attention is needed than ever before to the waste of resources which has been perpetrated for too many years and which has been completely eroded by the economic and social austerity we are living in. only by following this guideline can a sustainable europe be built, in line with the union's savings policies.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the subject-matter of the following report, it is noted that the court of auditors found that the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. it also notes the activities of the european economic and social committee (eesc) and expresses concern at certain shortcomings in the expenditure relating to travel reimbursements and allowances for certain members. in general, however, i regard the eesc's commitment as positive and i express a favourable opinion on the proposal for discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge for the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014, european economic and social committee i am in favour of. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ i share the assessment made in the report and approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section vi european economic and social committee. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge decision is parliament's way of exercising its role as the political controller of budgetary expenditure supported by the various european institutions. in the event of a positive decision, the institution under scrutiny is, in fact, relieved of any form of responsibility for the management and costs of the administration. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the preparation of the budget, but that it should be involved in the preparation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the macovei report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the committee of the regions. the text emphasises that the committee's accounts for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error. parliament was concerned about the increase in the number of derogation notifications and asked the committee to draw up a report to define the corrective measures to be taken to prevent a repetition of such situations.
in writing. ‒ the resolution acknowledges some progress made by the committee of the regions in recent years, but i remain convinced that there is still room for improvement, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the committee of the regions because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i abstained. the resolution takes note of some progress made in recent years by an institution towards which we have a natural political inclination. of course, this does not mean that the institution representing the interests of our regions cannot present accounts in a more orderly manner or work on proposals for substantial cuts, not just figurative ones. please note that the committee of the regions' 2014 budget is approximately eur 87 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii committee of the regions, because in its 2014 annual report, the court of auditors found that 'no significant weaknesses were identified in the audited aspects concerning human resources and procurement'. in 2014, the committee had an approved budget of eur 87 600 000 (eur 87 373 000 in 2013), of which eur 86 300 000 was committed appropriations, with a utilization rate of 98,5%. the increase in the utilisation rate in 2014 is noteworthy. a cooperation agreement between parliament, the cor and the eesc was signed on 5 february 2014 to develop political cooperation. i believe that there is still room for improvement in the cooperation between parliament and the committee for the purposes of the cooperation agreement: both institutions should develop further synergies that increase productivity in areas of cooperation, at all levels, and adopt concrete and detailed provisions on the functioning of the shared services of parliament, the committee and the eesc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i am also satisfied with this report and that is why i voted in favour. although i recognize that there is still a lot of work to be done here to achieve more and more real savings, i believe that the committee of the regions has managed the expenditure well. i therefore voted in favour, with the further aim of improving cooperation between parliament and the committee, because i think that greater synergies can be found which can improve productivity in the various areas covered by the cooperation agreements between the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget presented by the committee of the regions. the court of auditors gave a positive assessment of the committee's budget, noting that there were no significant weaknesses in human resources and procurement and that the reporting and payments were correct. i therefore support the adoption of the budget and hope that the committee's information and communication policy will be strengthened, with a view to promoting greater participation and involvement of citizens in the union's strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the committee of the regions' discharge, given the many criticisms made by the institution. in particular, the costs of meetings, missions and external leases. i also find the lack of transparent procedures for staff selection and the absence of a clear internal policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest to be negative.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the subject-matter of the following report, it is noted that the court of auditors found that the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error. it also notes the activities of the european economic and social committee (eesc) and expresses concern at certain shortcomings in the expenditure relating to travel reimbursements and allowances for certain members. in general, however, i regard the eesc's commitment as positive and i express a favourable opinion on the proposal for discharge.
in writing. ‒ i share the views expressed in the report and, having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors that there are no significant weaknesses in human resources and procurement, i approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section vii committee of the regions, vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the political control exercised by parliament over the closure of each budget essentially makes it possible to check for any waste and maladministration in the institutions and then to call on them to make the necessary changes. the court of auditors' annual report shows weaknesses in financial planning and a lack of transparency in the european external action service. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european external action service. the text emphasises that the accounts for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error and estimated by the court of auditors at 0.5%. the eeas needs to improve the management of staff allowances.
in writing. ‒ the report is not very incisive and critical of an institution that has always been problematic with its own expenditure. i therefore opposed the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european external action service because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against a resolution which, on the whole, is not very strong and tends to protect the work of the external action service led by mrs mogherini. the opposition is therefore also political in nature to this kind of parallel diplomacy which invades the purely political competences of the member states.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of my political group, i have today abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution of the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section x european external action service. in particular, the abstention was the result of some key amendments, previously approved, which introduced into the text distorted assessments which did not correspond to the data indicated by the commission on eu delegations to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european external action service (eeas).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the way the resources have been managed by the european external action service, and in particular i am satisfied with the way the budget has been implemented with a low level of error. i therefore voted in favour not only because of the way in which the resources were administered but also because of the way in which they were reported, in full respect of the principles of transparency and control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in favour of the discharge for the european external action service (eeas). the report produced by parliament does not in fact point to any particular criticisms in the eeas budget. however, there is a lot of room for improvement in the work of the eeas with regard to its internal organisation and external management. as the eeas is responsible for the administrative costs associated with the operation of the delegations, an appropriate budgetary procedure and the simplification of the budget structure represent a key challenge in the short term in order to streamline the financial circuits and to help consolidate the functioning of the budget. a reduction in the complexity and rigidity of the current budgetary mechanisms would allow for a more flexible and effective use of staff in delegations in the interest of the union, increasing the level of transparency towards citizens.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to oppose the report because i believe that the european external action service should review the staff management formula, striking a balance between staff designated by the member states and by the union institutions. in this regard, the profile of staff in the union delegations should respect a geographical balance. there is also a concern about the cost to the institution of the large number of national experts seconded by the member states.
in writing. ‒ as regards the situation of the european external action service (eeas), the parliament did not find any significant errors in the budget and the court of auditors did not find any problems in the systems and in the annual activity report. the formation of the eeas is of some concern, as it shows gender and nationality imbalances among its members, particularly in the most important positions. we therefore call on the eeas to show greater diversification, to provide equal opportunities without discrimination and to improve monitoring systems for employees' personal data. despite these small suggestions, i am voting in favour of granting the eeas discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the observations made in the report and, considering that the european external action service (eeas) continues to implement its budget without being affected by material errors, i approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section x european external action service. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament exercises its political control over the budgets of the european institutions by checking the budget's entry and exit items. in the absence of waste and irregularities in management, parliament adopts a positive decision and closes the budget cycle. in the case of the european ombudsman, i decided to abstain because i could not stand the waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report on the discharge for the european ombudsman for the 2014 budget. the text emphasises that the ombudsman's accounts for administrative and other expenditure are, as a whole, free from material error. the ombudsman's own-initiative inquiries, through the adoption of a more systematic and systematic approach to complex issues, represent an important innovation which parliament suggests to continue pursuing.
in writing. ‒ although it contains interesting insights, there are still many passages in the text that i do not share, so i expressed myself with an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european ombudsman because i believe that his finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstain, because in this case the resolution contains interesting data. moreover, the s&d group's own amendments are, in our view, improvements, as they emphasise the importance of the ombudsman being quick to give answers to citizens who turn to him.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii european ombudsman, because the court of auditors, on the basis of the audit work carried out, concluded that the payments relating to the financial year ended 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error. the ombudsman's budget is purely administrative. the total appropriations were committed to 97,87% (compared to 98,20% in 2013) and paid to 93,96% (compared to 91,82% in 2013), with an implementation rate of 97,87% (compared to 98,20% for 2013). the implementation rate decreased in 2014. however, in order to increase transparency, the ombudsman should include in the annual activity report a summary table of all human resources, broken down by nationality, gender and grade; the results and consequences of olaf's archived cases where the investigation concerned the institution or its staff, in accordance with the rules in force on confidentiality and data protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i believe that, in view of the importance of the european ombudsman's office as a liaison institution between the local administrations of the individual member states and the european institutions, the expenditure has been managed with a clear focus on waste and in full respect of the principle of transparency. that is why i could only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the european ombudsman's commitment to present an annual activity report, which provides a detailed assessment of the resources allocated and their use. i believe that sound financial and budgetary management by the european institutions is a sign of quality. that is why, after a thorough analysis of the documentation relating to the discharge for the implementation of the budgetary section of the european union for the european ombudsman, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because of the many criticisms of the institution of the european ombudsman. one of the main problems encountered is the large number of missions by the european ombudsman's staff, some 212, with a total cost of eur 126 000. in addition, it would be useful to make changes to the procedure and criteria used for the selection of staff, thus aligning with the standards of quality, transparency, objectivity and equal opportunities of the staff of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the report under consideration. it is noted that the court of auditors, in its 2014 annual report, did not identify any significant weaknesses with regard to the audited aspects relating to human resources and procurement as regards the european ombudsman. in addition, on the basis of the work carried out, the court concluded that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies as at 31 december 2014 are free from material error. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i share the observations contained in the report and i approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section viii european ombudsman, as i agree that the court of auditors has not identified any significant weaknesses. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the annual report drawn up by the court of auditors, the european parliament closes each budgetary cycle by adopting a discharge decision. if the decision is positive, the parliamentary body effectively releases the institution under review from any budgetary responsibility for the period under review. as regards the european data protection supervisor, there are some shortcomings and deficiencies in the implementation of the budget. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the macovei report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european data protection supervisor. the text emphasises that the accounts of the guarantor for administrative and other expenditure are overall free from material errors and that the supervisory and control systems examined are effective.
in writing. although the text contains elements of some interest, there are still passages which i do not share, so i have opted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european data protection supervisor because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i abstained. the resolution contains elements of some interest, although it does not go beyond a certain level of criticism of an authority which, in our opinion, could be done without, since it cost about eur 8 million in 2014 alone. it should be noted that, apart from the above, the european data protection supervisor is the italian giovanni buttarelli, who has also distinguished himself in recent years by a certain degree of independence from the european institutions. on several occasions, in fact, it has exercised its function by drafting critical documents towards legislative proposals that infringe the rights of individual citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix european data protection supervisor because, on the basis of the court of auditors' findings, the payments for the financial year ended 31 december 2014 concerning the administrative and other expenditure of the supervisor are, as a whole, free from material error and the supervisory and control systems examined for administrative and other expenditure have proved effective. the total appropriations were committed to 97,87% (compared to 98,20% in 2013) and paid to 93,96% (compared to 91,82% in 2013), with an implementation rate of 97,87% (compared to 98,20% for 2013). the implementation rate decreased in 2014. information on procurement procedures and contractor selection criteria is rather limited: the authority will assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. the guarantor should include on its website and in its annual activity report for 2015 a list of all the awarded contracts in which it has taken part, even if initiated by other institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ the european data protection supervisor has a key role to play. in a society characterised by rapid technological and social change, the union needs to strengthen its position on the broad topic of data protection and data management in all its policies: i am thinking of what has been done, with a multi-area approach, with the pnr, the data protection package and the constant work on the definition of the privacy shield. the committee on budgetary control of the parliament, having taken note of the work carried out by the guarantor, found that the budget allocated to purely administrative expenditure was spent for the purposes for which it was intended. it welcomes the cuts in the budget lines for translation, publications and activities of the guarantor. however, it is considered necessary, for the sake of transparency, that the guarantor should keep the website for tenders constantly updated, presenting in the annual activity report for 2015 a list of all the successful contracts in which it has taken part, even if initiated by other institutions, as well as the related procedures and selection criteria. i thought i would vote in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budgetary procedure, which was also endorsed by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it shows that the budget of the european data protection supervisor was drawn up without any material error and that the supervisory and control systems examined, as regards the various expenditure items, have proved to be effective. i thought it only right to give my approval.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman plays a particularly important role in respecting the fundamental right to data protection, particularly following the lisbon treaty which extended his powers to all eu policies. in view of the positive comments made in the ep's motion for a resolution, i would like to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the general budget of the eu in respect of the data protection officer.
in writing. ‒ the positive vote was based on the findings of the court of auditors, which in its audit of the data protection officer's budget did not find any significant weaknesses compared to the audit of the 2014 accounts. nevertheless, there are some issues on which the institution will have to intervene. this refers to the implementation of maximum transparency in matters of conflict of interest and employment relationships, as well as the definition of clear and binding rules on whistleblowing.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors found in its report that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2014 for the european data protection supervisor's administrative and other expenditure were free from material error. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. in this context, i am in favour of granting the discharge to the guarantor for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the positive observations of the court of auditors and the favourable comments of the rapporteur, i approve the 2014 discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section ix european data protection supervisor. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the resolution presented firstly stresses the key role played by agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of citizens. it is also emphasised, on the basis of the reports drawn up by the court of auditors, that the final accounts of all decentralised agencies reflect a true and fair view in all relevant respects. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, in recognition of the efforts made by the agencies in cooperation, optimisation of synergies and exchange of good practice between them and the commission.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. today i voted in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control. the text stresses the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the lives of european citizens. through their work, the union guarantees itself free access to independent technical and scientific information and assessments.
in writing. ‒ the report is unbalanced and the generic calls for greater 'transparency' are not translated into concrete action in this respect, which is why i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies are in line with the 2012 common guideline on decentralised agencies and the principles of annuality, unity and balanced budget.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary amounts for the activities of the agencies are partly covered by the eu budget and partly subsidised by the fees paid by the companies; the commission's proposal is to establish a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states. there is no 'quality' assessment of their work and the general call for greater 'transparency' and information to the public is not enough to justify an increase in staff costs (+0.64% compared to the previous year). i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control. based on the summary of the court of auditors' 2014 annual audits of the agencies and other bodies of the union, the 2014 budget of the agencies amounts to approximately eur 1,9 billion, representing a decrease of approximately 5% compared to 2013 and approximately 1,4% of the general budget of the union. it should be noted, however, that some agencies have yet to adopt guidelines on whistleblowing, and all union institutions and agencies that have not yet done so need to adopt internal rules on whistleblowing as a matter of urgency and apply a common approach to their obligations, focusing on the protection of whistleblowers. the institutions and agencies must pay particular attention to the protection of whistleblowers in the framework of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of confidential know-how and business information against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure, which will be adopted in the near future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the problems of eu agencies in a relevant way. these include the high level of cancellations of appropriations carried over from previous years, as noted by the court of auditors, a clear indication that the amounts were based on an overestimation of needs or were not justified in any event. a lack of guidance on whistleblowing and whistleblower protection remains in many agencies, which is worrying as protection problems have occurred in many agencies. the report then focuses on other important issues: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. finally, the report stresses the need for the strict application of the measures concerning discretion and exclusion in public procurement to procurement procedures, a real weakness and obscurity of the agencies, with appropriate background checks being carried out in each case, and the application of exclusion criteria in order to exclude companies in the event of a conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report, in this particular case concerning the european union agencies, because i believe that the various economic operations have been carried out in a regular manner, in compliance with the internal and external controls to which the agencies are subject. i am also pleased to see that the various agencies concerned are making efforts to find synergies and areas of cooperation, all in order to save resources both in terms of money and staff.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the budget of the european union agencies, because of the valuable technical and scientific contribution they make to support european policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european agency in respect of the performance, financial management and control of the budget. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their impact on the daily lives of eu citizens is of paramount importance, as is the autonomy of the agencies, in particular those regulating and those whose function is to collect information independently. the report underlines the need to further strengthen the integrity of agencies and further improve the ethical framework, applying codes of conduct and ethical principles, in order to strengthen a common culture of integrity across all eu institutions and agencies.
in writing. ‒ i consider that, as stated in the report, the accounts, conduct and prospects of the reference agencies contained in the report present all the conditions for me to vote in favour. i therefore feel i must vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the horizontal issues of eu agencies in a relevant way. firstly, the high level of cancellations of appropriations for previous years, as noted by the court of auditors, shows that the amounts were based on an overestimation of needs or were not justified. a lack of guidance on whistleblowing and whistleblower protection remains in many agencies, which is worrying as protection problems have occurred in many agencies. the report then focuses on other important issues: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. the report also stresses the need for the strict application of the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement to procurement procedures, which are a real weakness and a dark spot for agencies, with appropriate checks on previous cases and the application of exclusion criteria to exclude companies in the event of a conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report shows that the agency's efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 95%. however, weaknesses in financial planning and potential conflicts of interest continue to be identified. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators.
in writing. ‒ although balanced, there are passages in the text giving discharge to the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators which i do not share. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ while generally respecting the guidelines and good financial management rules, the lack of a european training school on energy and, above all, the limited information provided on the work carried out on the resolution of conflicts between national regulators are highlighted. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the final budget for cooperation between national energy regulators for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, which represents a decrease of 8,80% compared to 2013, according to the agency's financial statements. i welcome the recent adoption by the agency of a review, in the interests of transparency and equal treatment of staff, of its revised strategy as regards recruitment procedures and the activities of selection boards. this strategy includes specific conditions for written and oral tests, as well as strict provisions to ensure the anonymity of candidates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
in writing. ‒ i have agreed with this report because i believe it has been drawn up with the transparency necessary to monitor the use of resources. i believe that the agency's annual reports could play an important role in respecting the principles of transparency, accountability and integrity, and i believe that this report is moving in that direction.
in writing. ‒ following the court of auditors' certification of the reliability and regularity of the financial operations of the agency for cooperation between national energy regulators, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is based on the legality and regularity of the various operations of acer, as defined by the court of auditors in its report. it is therefore on the basis of that report that i have chosen to give a favourable opinion on the granting of the discharge to acer for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ noting with satisfaction that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, i cannot refrain from voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained, without reservation, reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. i have decided to vote against the discharge because there are shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. ‒ although the report seems balanced, there are some passages in the text which i do not agree with, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ even in a substantial framework of sound management of its budget, there is no indicator of the office's activities; it is therefore not possible to carry out a necessary merit assessment linking the repeated use of resources to the results achieved. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, because the court of auditors, in its report on the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,91%, an increase of 8,36% compared to the financial year 2012. i welcome the fact that the office has recently introduced a detailed monthly monitoring procedure to ensure proper implementation of its budget, which has led to an improvement in budget implementation rates. the measures taken to improve the reimbursement process for experts and to reduce the identified deficiencies in late payments should also be highlighted: in particular, the outsourcing of part of the process to the office of the commission for the management and settlement of individual rights (pmo), which has accelerated the overall reimbursement procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec).
in writing. ‒ this report highlights how resource management and work efficiency have gone hand in hand. i therefore believe that, in the light of the data contained in the report, this office has operated in an almost optimal manner, which is why i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ having carefully examined the observations on the discharge decision in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014, i have decided to cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european agency for the regulatory authorities for electronic communications. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications introduced a detailed monthly monitoring procedure, which has led to an improvement in budget implementation rates. for the reasons i have just mentioned, i have given a favourable opinion in support of the report which grants discharge, taking account of the improvements made in comparison with the past.
in writing. in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union was granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014, underlining the centre's important commitment to improving the quality assurance of translation and the system for receiving feedback from clients.
in writing. ‒ i confirm that i share the views expressed in the report and approve the discharge to be given to the management committee of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report reports that the translation centre for the bodies of the european union complies with 80% of the internal control standards (ics) and acknowledges the considerable efforts made to implement the remaining actions. the report argues that the centre's annual reports could play an important role in compliance with transparency, accountability and integrity. i voted against the discharge because the waste in the budget is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ while there are no particular criticisms of the work of the translation centre for eu bodies, and while i welcome its cooperation with other eu agencies, there are still significant budget surpluses, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the centre has budget surpluses, a recurrent phenomenon in its management; although there is little evidence of the work carried out, the cooperation of the agency with other eu agencies is welcomed. i see no particular criticism, despite being a major cost centre.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014, because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 79,34%, a decrease of 4,13% compared to 2013. welcomes the fact that the centre is developing and implementing an anti-fraud strategy based on the guidelines of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) on the anti-fraud strategies of the eu decentralised agencies; i think that the centre's annual reports could play an important role in compliance with transparency, accountability and integrity. it is therefore appropriate that the centre include a standard chapter on those aspects in its annual report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i could see from the data it contains how the economic resources available to this office were used, firstly in the full attention to waste and secondly for the operationality and efficiency of the work of the various agencies operating within the european union.
in writing. ‒ having analysed the court of auditors' assessments of the financial statements of the translation centre for bodies of the european union (tcb), i have decided to give my vote in favour of discharge to the centre for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors in its report on the annual costs of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained assurances on the reliability of the centre's annual accounts. the centre has committed itself to improving the quality assurance of translation and the system for receiving feedback from clients, within a framework of legitimacy and transparency. in the light of the foregoing, i feel i must express my support for the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report and i am in favour of granting the director of the translation centre of the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 states that the centre's support services in 2014 are efficient. the centre has also adopted a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. the quality of the translation is now also guaranteed by a direct feedback system from the clients. i have decided to vote against the discharge because of the shortcomings in the financial planning and because of the enormous waste in the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. ‒ the report we are voting on is unbalanced and not acceptable, so i do not intend to grant discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ while not detecting any particular dysfunctions in the centre's economic and financial management, only some of the planned actions were not closed in 2014; it is also hoped that the centre will work to cooperate more closely with sms dealing with the problem of refugee management in order to find them employment (ironically, the centre is based in greece!). i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014, finding no impediment to its granting, because the court of auditors, in its report on the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,93%, at the same level as in 2013. i am pleased that the centre has focused its work on initiatives to contribute to and support policies addressing youth unemployment and that the information contained in the detailed country-specific education and training policy sheets prepared by the centre for all member states has been incorporated into the country-specific recommendations of the european semester in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop).
in writing. ‒ having noted that, according to the data in the report, the financial and budgetary management of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) was on time and, above all, carried out in the most transparent way, i voted in favour of this report as well.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the activities of the centre are of great importance to the eu's policy agenda in the field of vocational education and training. therefore, having noted the regularity of the transactions in cedefop's annual accounts, i intend to express my vote in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is based on the legality and regularity of its various operations, as outlined in the court of auditors' report, in the areas of financial and budgetary management, procurement and recruitment procedures and internal audit, among others. in this context, i am in favour of granting cedefop discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions presented by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, i am satisfied that the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training is to be granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the college's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of its operations. i voted against the discharge because we need to improve the management of conflicts of interest and we need to increase transparency in the procurement and recruitment procedures, and that is reflected negatively in the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european police college.
in writing. ‒ although it contains interesting insights and overall balanced results, there are still many passages in the text that i do not agree with, so i expressed my abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european police college (cepol) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report shows that the academy's financial management is substantially sound. the transfer of the registered office (from the united kingdom to hungary) is mentioned only in the statement of assets; the academy works with the sm police academies. it is curious how the lack of cooperation with lobbies from a legislative point of view is emphasised, and this is a good thing (which means that the activities of the other eu bodies, which also legislate in consultation with stakeholders, should be condemned). i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the academy's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,40%, an increase of 2,51% compared to 94,89% in 2013. i welcome the progress made by the academy in preventing and managing conflicts of interest through the adoption and publication in november 2014 of the cepol strategy and in transparency through the publication of the cvs and declarations of interests of the director, the deputy director and most of the members of the administrative board on the cepol website. some concerns remain, however, about the recruitment procedures, which are not yet fully transparent, and the requirements for professional experience, which are not always in accordance with the provisions implementing the staff regulations of the academy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european police college (cepol).
in writing. ‒ having noted how the budgetary control efforts of the european police college in 2014 resulted in a strong optimisation of resources and a big saving, i decided to vote in favour of the discharge. the data presented show that the management of economic and financial resources has been optimal, so it was easy for me to express my support.
in writing. ‒ welcoming the commitment of the european police college to improve budgetary controls, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european police college. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament decision on the discharge to be given to the european police college (cepol). according to the court of auditors' report, cepol's operations have been carried out in accordance with the rules of legality and regularity as regards financial and budgetary management, procurement and recruitment procedures, prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency. the report therefore sets out the objectives achieved in the above areas and, at the same time, the proposals for resolutions for the improvement and development of the institution, which is why i have given a favourable opinion. for these reasons, i believe i shall vote in favour of the proposal to grant discharge to cepol's budget for 2014.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the court of auditors' statement on the reliability of the academy's annual accounts, i support the report approving the discharge to be given to the director of the european police college in respect of the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in terms of budget implementation, the report presented provides a critical and organic account of the corrective measures put in place by the european aviation safety agency (easa), such as the updating of documents to increase the transparency of certain procedures. the overall improvement in protection and the fight against corruption, starting with greater public access to documents, is an important step, but there are still shortcomings in financial planning, shortcomings in the management of procurement and contracts, lack of transparency in recruitment and excessive carry-overs. for these reasons i have decided to vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. ‒ while the report seems to provide a fairly consistent picture of the budget of the european aviation safety agency, i believe that it is too superficial in many respects to allow a proper assessment to compare the use of resources with the results achieved. i expressed my abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the financial management of the agency appears to provide the necessary guarantees; however, the transparency of its action still needs to be increased as two thirds of its budget comes from enterprises and there may be situations of conflict of interest. the only mention of 2014's activities is curious: recognises that, due to the disappearance of flight mh370, the tragic crash of flight mh17, the air asia qz8501 disaster and the radar interference over central europe, 2014 was a difficult year for the agency; the fundamental issue of aviation safety would require full synergy with national authorities which is not reflected in the text of the resolution. - abstention from voting i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 to the european aviation safety agency because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,1%, representing a decrease of 0,9% compared to 2013. welcomes the fact that easa reviewed and verified a large number of declarations of interests in order to ensure compliance with its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest; however, it should be noted that, in order to increase transparency, several declarations of conflicts of interest by members of the management board and senior management are still pending.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european aviation safety agency (easa).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge in this case as well, as i noted, analysing the data in the report, how the economic and financial resources were managed without ever sacrificing the collective interest that aviation safety, in my view to be understood as a public good, represents. in addition, since i was satisfied with the attention paid to the management of resources in terms of transparency and control, it was easy for me to express my support for the discharge.
in writing. ‒ easa is well known for playing a leading role in ensuring civil aviation safety in europe. having taken note of the court of auditors' report, which was free from any significant criticism of the agency's work, i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european aviation safety agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has raised some criticisms about the agency's procurement planning, which could be improved. it noted that the website contained the cvs and declarations of interests of all the agency's directors and department heads, as well as the members of the committee and the administrative board. the agency is invited to improve awareness-raising activities, in addition to those already in place on the conflict of interest policy, and to introduce integrity and transparency as mandatory elements to be discussed during recruitment procedures and performance appraisal interviews.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the final annual accounts and the court of auditors' report, i am happy to grant the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions. the accompanying report shall provide sound guidance on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. the difficulties encountered in dealing with the current refugee crisis are also recognised. the agency's tasks will therefore be further increased and budgetary and staffing increases will be necessary. i have decided to abstain from the vote on discharge because there are reports which are not backed up by commitments or are too high.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree with the discharge for the european asylum support office at all, given the current poor performance of the union in dealing with refugees. moreover, the report does not present a specific picture of the activities carried out. for these reasons i did not support the discharge of easo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european asylum support office (easo) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ it is emphasised that the office carried forward eur 1 300 000 in budgetary commitments which were not covered by legal commitments. it also notes with concern that the average delay in late payments increased from three to 24 days from 2013 to 2014 it simply acknowledges the "moment of great difficulty in managing the refugee crisis", without further mentioning the work carried out by the un refugee agency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting the executive director discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 84,69%, a reduction of 2,65% compared to 2013. welcomes the fact that easo has put in place measures to address the recurring problems of miscalculation of budgetary needs, late payments as well as transparency issues and conflicts of interest; the progress made in terms of conflicts of interest is also noteworthy, as all its members and the executive director have signed the office's conflict of interest form and confirmed the absence of such conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european asylum support office (easo).
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office provides effective operational support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure. the office was established to facilitate, coordinate and strengthen logistical cooperation on asylum matters between member states. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of asylum seekers who have been granted asylum in the member states, including on the number of asylum seekers who have been granted asylum in the member states. the agency has encountered several difficulties in carrying out its tasks, mainly due to the failure to implement, and the refusal of some member states, to implement the procedures provided for in the dublin regulation. i believe that in order to overcome the worrying situation we are experiencing, it is necessary to provide the agency with the necessary resources to complete the difficult task of managing the numerous asylum applications. the recommendations of the court of auditors, including the call to reduce late payments, have been widely welcomed by the agency, which is asked to step up its management efforts and to present an action plan to enable it to carry out its work in an optimal manner. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i also agreed with this report. i have found that the principle of transparency has been fully respected in the analysis of the data submitted and, satisfied with the way in which the funds have been administered, i could only express my support.
in writing. ‒ following the court of auditors' approval of the 2014 easo budget, and the ascertaining of the legality of the financial position, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. ‒ the resolution containing the observations on the european parliament's decisions on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european asylum support office notes that the responsibilities of the office will increase with the refugee crisis and the increase in the flow of migrants. at the same time, it acknowledges some irregularities in the system of budget management for carry-overs in 2015 and the late payment of 28,6% of payments, made after the deadline set by the financial regulation. in my vote in favour, i support the european parliament's recommendation to increase staff and budget in order to improve both the management of the refugee crisis and the management of financial resources in the years to come. i also think it is important to emphasize in the resolution the need to increase the transparency of the office's documents and policies in the field of preventing and managing conflicts of interest and preventing and combating corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against granting discharge to easo. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors noted that there was no significant error in the expenditure of the european asylum support office (easo) and that most of the activities were carried out in a lawful and regular manner. the commission has also received comments from the applicant on the application of the principle of proportionality. the court therefore requested public access to the various documents and the application of more restrictive rules. in view of these suggestions, which easo will certainly take on board, i vote in favour of granting the discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the court of auditors' statement on the reliability of the office's annual accounts, i support the report approving the discharge to the executive director of the european asylum support office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) states that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions. the report states that the authority has failed to keep the union legislator sufficiently and fully informed of all details of its ongoing activities. i have decided to vote against the discharge because i cannot support the waste in the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the report shows that the transparency of the european banking authority (eba) can be improved, also in order to improve its own tools to fight corruption, which is why i did not support the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european banking authority (eba) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution shows substantial soundness in the financial management of the authority; the commission has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council in brussels. finally, it is underlined that 'the authority's role in promoting a common supervisory system throughout the internal market is essential to ensure financial stability, a better integrated and more efficient and secure financial market and a high level of consumer protection in the union by promoting fairness and transparency in the market for financial products and services and by ensuring that the rules on the free movement of financial services are applied in a fair and transparent manner.' i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. ment of the
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,81%, representing an increase of 2,28% compared to 2013, and a payment appropriations execution rate of 83,94%, representing an increase of 8,60%. i would point out that the authority's blended funding system, which is heavily dependent on contributions from the national competent authorities, is inadequate, inflexible and burdensome and constitutes a potential threat to its independence. i therefore join the call to the commission to launch a different financing system based on a separate budget line in the union budget and the total replacement of contributions from national authorities with fees charged by market operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european banking authority (eba).
in writing. ‒ looking at the data in this report, i found that there was good management of expenditure and, which i think is very important, that it was done with a general view to saving. i am therefore satisfied with this report and have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the authority plays a key role in ensuring safety in the banking sector by contributing to the development of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices. on the basis of those considerations, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the eba's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european banking authority. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ parliament's proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the european banking authority (eba) is based on the legality and regularity of the various operations and expenditure carried out by the authority following the court of auditors' report. it also notes that there are no significant errors and that corrective actions have already been taken with regard to the observations in the previous reports. after careful consideration of the reasons analysed, i vote in favour of the proposal to grant discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014. whereas the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the eba for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained good assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, and more particularly as to the regularity and legality of the transactions highlighted in the report;
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, i am satisfied that the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014 is correct. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which grants the discharge to the executive director of the european banking authority, welcomes the improvement in the planning and budgetary control of the authority. although the appropriations have not reached the implementation rates envisaged, the report acknowledges the work of the authority and emphasises its role in the financial surveillance system desired by parliament, encouraging its efforts in terms of communication and transparency. for these reasons i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions. i have decided to abstain from voting because there are still too many unresolved issues in the management of conflicts of interest; in addition, there is still a clear budgetary waste.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge of the 2014 budget for the centre for disease prevention and control.
in writing. ‒ while the report seems to present a broadly correct picture of the management of the budget of the european centre for disease control and prevention, i believe that it is too superficial in many respects, to the extent that it makes it impossible to make a meaningful assessment that effectively compares the use of resources with the results achieved. i therefore voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report shows substantial fairness in the use of funds; however, the lack of dissemination of the centre's studies (which appear to be only published on its website) is reported, and the only reference to the detailed activity carried out is the extraordinary effort on the ebola virus case. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 was eur 60 486 000, representing an increase of 3,72% compared to 2013. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 98,77%, representing an increase of 5,81% compared to the previous financial year. i would like to draw attention to the special attention paid by the centre to the need to ensure consistency in all tender documents: the committee of the centre for procurement, contracts and grants, in its new form, provides an additional quality control mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc).
in writing. ‒ i agreed with the report presented to me and voted in favour. in my view, the expenditure shown has been made in such a way as to ensure the transparency necessary to ensure effective control of the use of resources. and it is precisely in the use of these, which i believe are supported with responsibility and integrity, that i felt i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ welcoming the commitment of the european centre for disease prevention and control to provide necessary budgetary and financial management corrective actions, i express my vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the ecdc's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament decision to discharge the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the court of auditors' report shows that the ecdc's operations were carried out in accordance with the rules of legality and regularity and showed no particular irregularities in the expenditure in 2014. the activities carried out are the following: financial and budgetary management; commitments and carry-overs; procurement and recruitment procedures; conflict of interest prevention and management and transparency; internal controls; internal audit. other observations include the use of the european-wide web portal for the publication of documents on infectious diseases and the increase in downloadable files. in the light of that report, i express a favourable opinion on the granting of the discharge to the ecdc for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the final annual accounts and the court of auditors' report, i am satisfied that the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control has been granted a discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore say that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the discharge decision, the european parliament closes a budgetary cycle, effectively approving the administrative and cost management choices of the european institutions. with regard to the european chemicals agency (echa), there are shortcomings in financial planning, potential conflicts of interest, shortcomings in the management of procurement and contracts, lack of transparency. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european chemicals agency.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european chemicals agency does not contain any useful passages to update on its operation. that is why i did not support the discharge in favour of this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ no useful information is given about the activities of the association and, interestingly, a large part of the budget is supported by the european free association (mostly non-eu sms). i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 114 112 193, representing an increase of 6,37% compared to 2013. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,08%, while the payment appropriations execution rate was 87,46%. finally, i am pleased to learn that the agency has published the declarations of interests of all the formal bodies, as well as those of its management and the board of appeal, on its website and made them available for public scrutiny. it is a step forward in terms of transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european chemicals agency (echa).
in writing. ‒ having noted that, according to the data reported, the financial and budgetary management of the european chemicals agency (echa) was on time and, above all, carried out in the utmost transparency, i also voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the importance of the work carried out by the echa regulator and its leading role in the implementation of european chemicals legislation, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the echa budget for the financial year 2014. echa is constantly committed to the protection of human health and the environment and benefits from the revenue guaranteed by companies for the registration of chemicals, which has allowed it to fully finance its operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european chemicals agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote to discharge the 2014 budget of echa as i cannot see how the spending of the echa has broken against the budgetary rules. i am also happy to see that the agency in 2014 for the fourth consecutive year was completely self-funded by registrations fees from the industry; the exception was the costs in implementing the new bpr regulations for which the agency required financial support. lastly i wish to echo the congratulations given in the report to the echa regarding their financial streamlining and development in reporting.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency (echa) has been managing the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the use and marketing of biocides and the import and export of hazardous chemicals since 2012. the court of auditors' report shows that there is no significant error in the agency's expenditure and that the main activities have been carried out in a lawful and regular manner. the report also analyses the performance of the agency's activities to date and makes proposals for further progress at economic and structural level. in view of the results obtained and the recommendations made, i express a favourable opinion on the granting of the discharge to echa for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report and i am in favour of granting the executive director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the annual report drawn up by the court of auditors, parliament adopts the discharge decision, thereby making a political assessment of the running costs of the european institutions. the procedure under consideration allows parliament to identify any waste by suggesting cuts or alternative strategies. as regards the european environment agency, there are shortcomings in financial programming and potential conflicts of interest. for these reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european environment agency.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to endorse the discharge to the eea joint undertaking because of the lack of references concerning the work of the agency and because of the fact that its financial management presents some criticisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european environment agency (eea) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ there are no specific references to the work of the agency and there are some critical points in the financial management of the agency; the instruments which should ensure the transparency of operations, especially ex ante and ex post controls vis-à-vis beneficiaries, appear to be ineffective. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. i am concerned, however, as the court of auditors' report shows, that, as regards internal controls, although ex ante and ex post controls are incompatible tasks, the internal auditor was involved in both. i hope that the agency will follow through on its promises by developing a formal ex post control strategy that ensures compatibility with the agency's internal audit capability. finally, i am pleased that in november 2014 the management board of the agency adopted the anti-fraud strategy to ensure the proper management of matters concerning conflicts of interest and to develop anti-fraud activities, in particular through prevention, detection, awareness raising and closer cooperation with the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european environment agency (eea).
in writing. ‒ the report is clear: the european environment agency has managed its finances well. the documentation shows that the expenditure was made conscientiously and with full respect for the resources entrusted to it. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour, also to encourage this agency to continue to improve the use of existing resources.
in writing. ‒ with the climate challenge at the top of the agenda of the european institutions, the mission of the european environment agency is of great importance, as it provides scientific information for the formulation of european environmental policies. therefore, in view of the progress made in the financial and budgetary management by the eea in order to ensure efficient activity, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european environment agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors noted that there was no significant error in the expenditure of the european environment agency (eea) and that most of the activities were carried out in a lawful and regular manner. in general, the court welcomed the objectives achieved and the standards observed. it nevertheless encouraged the agency to improve, calling for greater cooperation between the member states and the third countries concerned. in the light of the above, i am in favour of granting discharge to the eea for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the court of auditors' statement on the assurance of the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, i support the report approving the discharge to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca) first of all acknowledges the efforts made by the agency in the coordination processes between member states. in this case, there are potential conflicts of interest, shortcomings in the management of procurement and contracts, lack of transparency in recruitment and uncommitted transfers. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ the report offers some very good criticisms, including the fact that this agency does not facilitate the work of the operators in the sector, which convinced me to vote against the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report shall be attached to the decision approving the discharge. the text calls for more money for an agency which, however, creates a number of problems for those working in the fisheries sector. the text contains no points of particular interest, except in the last paragraph where it states that the fisheries agency should coordinate with other agencies to deal also with maritime disasters and coast guard: that's not his function at all.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable. i welcome the fact that the agency adopted its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in october 2014 and that significant progress has been made since then: the declarations of conflicts of interest signed by the members of the management board of the agency and the executive staff have been made public, the publication of cvs of the executive staff of the agency has been declared optional, under the policy on management of conflicts of interest, but the four members of the management board of the agency have submitted their cvs for publication. i join the call to the members of the management board of the agency to submit their declarations of conflict of interest without delay for publication on the agency's website, in order to take into account the transparency and accountability of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european fisheries control agency (efca).
in writing. ‒ i have noticed that this report also shows how resource management and work efficiency have gone hand in hand. i therefore believe that, in the light of the data contained in the document, this agency has operated in an almost optimal manner and that is why i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency, given the importance of the common fisheries policy and the need to promote effective control and surveillance of fishing activities, which the agency has so far ensured.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european fisheries control agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted for discharging the 2014 efca budget, i did this with regards to that the 2014 budget had been used according to current budgetary rules and because the report presented the agency in a very good light and showed numbers that suggested steady improvements in performance and financial streamlining. some examples of this are that appropriate actions have been taken in regards to the comments given by the courts on the 2013 budget and that the numbers regarding the budget implementation rate and payment appropriations execution rate had improved.
in writing. ‒ parliament's proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency (efca) is based on the legality and regularity of the various operations and expenditure carried out by the agency following the court of auditors' report. it notes that there are no significant errors and expresses its approval of the implementation of the standards set. notes with concern that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 are incomplete; it also calls on the commission to carry out operations in conjunction with other specialised european agencies with a view to coordinating the european coast guard. in the light of the above, i am in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the report gives a discharge to the executive director of the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, recognising the agency's significant contribution to the implementation of the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the final annual accounts and the court of auditors' report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the european fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) states that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions. i voted against discharge because too little is being done to prevent and manage conflicts of interest and this is having a negative impact on the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european food safety authority.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european food safety authority (efsa) does not yet provide adequate guarantees of independence and the absence of external influences, and i therefore did not intend to support this report and grant discharge by voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the agency's work appears to be heavily affected by a number of important shortcomings in its internal rules, which are supposed to guarantee the absence of conflicts of interest and the independence of its officials and the academics who work with it. the lack of comprehensive and transparent publication of scientific results is lamented. the activities of an agency which is too closed in on itself and which, on a fundamental issue such as food safety, does not yet provide adequate guarantees of independence and freedom from external influences, are therefore emerging. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,69%, an increase of 0,86% compared to 2013. i believe that the authority must continue to pay particular attention to public opinion and to make every effort to be as open and transparent as possible. the measures taken to promote transparency in the risk assessment process are a positive first step, but data transparency must also be ensured. the launch of the transparency initiative in january 2013 was positive in this respect: the improvements made to the presentation and accessibility of information and documents on the authority's website and other actions taken, such as risk assessment opinions and their impact on union citizens, towards the objective of a 'public efsa' were significant but not sufficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european food safety authority (efsa).
in writing. ‒ i think it is essential that the european union's enormous resources are invested in such a way that the objectives for which they were invested are actually achieved. that is why i voted in favour of this discharge: because i think, based on the data that we have, that efsa has moved in that direction. i also believe that the various economic operations were carried out in a regular manner, in compliance with the internal and external controls to which the agencies are subject, and i could only express my support for this.
in writing. ‒ in view of the measures taken by the european food safety authority to rationalise costs and the high quality standard of its activities, which it continues to ensure through its scientific advice on food safety, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 of the european food safety authority (efsa) takes note of the court of auditors' opinion, which in its report on the annual accounts ascertains the reliability of the annual accounts of efsa and states that during the financial year 2014 budgetary control efforts have been improved with a budget implementation rate of 99,69%. by voting in favour of the resolution, i wanted to support the work of efsa in the 2014 financial year. furthermore, i think it is very important that the relevant resolution as efsa has defined a number of measures to support the objectives of openness and transparency of procedures and has launched new initiatives to improve the dialogue with stakeholders, including representatives of civil society, such as plenary meetings in brussels with a session dedicated to interaction with observers and stakeholders, public consultations on documents prior to the definition of guidelines, public consultations on draft opinions followed by specific meetings with stakeholders and social media presence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european food safety authority. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge of the 2014 budget for efsa with regards to that there was no basis to deny the discharge, however the report makes it clear that there are several operational difficulties for the efsa. one of these challenges is the struggle of the agency to become truly independent and the need to reach out to civil society. despite this, the overview of the report is in my opinion positive and it points to several projects that are being worked on and includes several ideas on how to improve the performance of the agency. to these projects i include the agency's push for more openness and transparency; something that i think is crucial for its role in public health; where the trust of the citizens is of outmost importance. i also approve of the measures taken to increase the effectiveness of the budget with a more action centralised strategy.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to efsa on the basis of the careful assessment carried out by the court of auditors. the authority, which pursues important objectives in the field of health and food safety and which operates under the aegis of the envi committee, has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management. for the reasons set out above and after a careful analysis of the document drawn up by the court of auditors, i am in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, i have the honour to approve the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the institute's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions. i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to endorse the discharge for the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the institute does not have any management deficiencies in its activities which affect its budget and, given its small size (only 29 units employed), it does not have any particular problems with the management of internal procedures; however, the institute's own, non-shared mission, which sees gender equality as a dogma (and which distorts the very concept of 'gender' by extending the boundaries of its application) to be imposed across all eu policies, makes us express an opinion regarding, even, the continuation of its activity in the terms described. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the budgetary control efforts resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,04%, which means that commitments were made in a timely manner. i welcome the transparency figures: i am pleased that the institute's public procurement procedures have been conducted in such a way as to ensure the widest possible competition and that the number of candidates invited for negotiated procedures for contracts of modest value has been set in such a way as to ensure a balance between publicity and proportionality. however, i join the institute's call, in the area of conflict of interest prevention and management and transparency, to scrupulously verify the declarations of conflict of interest of its members, administrative staff and experts and to publish the report without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the european institute for gender equality (eige).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am satisfied with the report as a whole and, secondly, because i believe that the expenditure reported has been duly justified.
in writing. ‒ in view of the role played by the institute in promoting gender equality, which is crucial to fostering gender equality in both the public and private spheres, i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european institute for gender equality. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality following the careful assessment carried out by the court of auditors. the eige plays an important role in combating gender discrimination and has implemented its budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014. the aim of this institute is to support and strengthen the promotion of gender equality through various instruments such as combating sexual discrimination, raising awareness among european citizens on this issue and mainstreaming gender equality within the policies of the european union. the court of auditors, in its annual report, highlighted the positive results regarding the reliability of the eige's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 as well as the legality and regularity of the operations, and noted that the institute achieved 95% of its commitments in 2014.
in writing. ‒ in light of the court of auditors' statement of reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the institute's annual accounts, i support the report approving the discharge to be given to the director of the european institute for gender equality in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) states that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions. i have decided to vote against discharge because i cannot support certain wasteful and inadequate budgetary execution.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. ‒ the report on this newly established authority does not contain any elements that allow a sound assessment to be made in order to compare effectively the use of resources with the results achieved. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the newly established authority should promote a common supervisory system at internal market level and help to ensure financial stability. the activity carried out is still that relating to its organisation but it is stressed that the objective of the authority must be to safeguard the security and soundness of the financial sector and to ensure compatibility with union law, while respecting the principle of proportionality and the fundamental principles of the internal market for financial services; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014 was eur 21 582 772, an increase of 15% compared to 2013, due to the authority's recent establishment, according to the financial statement. i am pleased that the authority has implemented all the relevant recommendations made by the commission's internal audit service (ias) and the progress made by the authority in the field of internal control, with particular reference to the strengthening of the planning, evaluation and reporting processes, additional security measures and the development of an anti-fraud strategy for the period 2015-2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems facing eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that, once again, the financial resources allocated to eiopa have been used in full compliance with fundamental principles such as transparency. i have voted in favour of this because of this and because of the regularity with which these resources have been administered.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the observations made in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014. the report highlights the importance of eiopa's role in promoting a common supervisory framework across the internal market, which is essential to ensure the stability of a more transparent, secure and efficient financial market to protect consumers in the union.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts and the court of auditors' report, i am satisfied that the discharge for the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014 has been given to the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the eit and the legality and regularity of the transactions. i voted against the motion for a resolution because there is still too much waste in the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit).
in writing. ‒ although the issue of technological innovation is strategic for the economic and social growth of the peoples of europe, the report on the european institute of innovation and technology is in many respects too superficial to enable a proper assessment to be made, which would effectively compare the use of resources with the results achieved. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ five years after its creation, the institute is still the main funder of the 'knowledge and innovation communities', initiatives which have not achieved financial sustainability at all. there is no specific reference to the objectives and results achieved, although the theme of technological innovation is strategic for the progress of the peoples of europe. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the institute's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. according to the institute's financial statements, the overall union contribution to the institute's budget for 2014 amounted to eur 169 807 303, representing an increase of 81,69% compared to 2013. i also welcome the fact that the institute has gradually improved its financial audit of the knowledge and innovation communities' (kics) expenditure declarations, but i note that the operational audit of outputs has lagged behind and that the annual business plans of the kics still include an inadequate definition of 'outputs'. finally, there is concern about the cases identified by the court where the full amount of the grant granted by the institute was paid, although some of the objectives set in the business plan were not achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the eit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it not only provides a check on the funds to show that they have been spent in a legitimate and regular manner, but also because it shows that the political objectives for which they were intended have been achieved. and it is precisely because of this element, which i consider to be fundamental, that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' express conclusions on the regularity of financial management, i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, and the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of that institute, which show the reliability of the accounts, the legality and regularity of the operations, and considering also that the institute has introduced a number of improvements, including an evaluation system to offer better career prospects to staff, improvements in the management of vacancies, strengthened the level of middle management, i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i share the views expressed in the report and i approve the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014, as i understand that the court of auditors has found reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the institute's annual accounts. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the discharge decision, parliament closes each budgetary cycle by exercising control over expenditure by the other european institutions. generally speaking, in the light of the court of auditors' annual report, a positive decision is justified by budget implementation free from waste or inefficiency. as regards the european medicines agency (ema), i voted against the discharge because it shows waste and inefficiency.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european medicines agency.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the criticisms in the report on the european medicines agency, i voted in favour of abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european medicines agency (ema) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ budget commitments are down by 2.4% on the previous year, but the sustainability of the financial situation is generally highlighted. it should be noted that in march 2014 the agency launched a pilot project on adaptive licensing, which was not supported by the parliament and the council as the application of adaptive pathways would shift the burden of proof from pre-marketing to post-marketing, creating a situation where premature marketing authorisations could become the norm. it therefore appears that, from a general rather than a purely administrative 'direction' point of view, there is a need for greater supervision and control over the agency's activities. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. however, i note that, although the agency's fees regulation provides for deadlines for the collection of fees from applicants and for the related agency payments to the competent national authorities, these deadlines have not been respected in most of the transactions examined by the court of auditors and calls on the agency to respect them. and that is something that needs to be improved. i also note that the court of auditors has identified significant weaknesses in management control, which imply considerable operational and financial risks for the agency. i therefore welcome the establishment of an action plan to address this issue and invite the agency to examine in depth the effectiveness of the measures taken.
in writing. ‒ i have noticed, in analysing this report, how the economic resources available to this office have been used, firstly, in full attention to waste and, secondly, to optimise the operation and efficiency of the work of this agency. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, as i was aware of the good management of the resources allocated to it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commitment of the european medicines agency to ensure greater transparency in financial and budgetary management. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the ema for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems facing the ema.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european medicines agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the ema (european medicines agency) on the basis of the careful assessment carried out by the court of auditors. the agency, which pursues important public health objectives and operates under the aegis of the envi committee, has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management. for the reasons set out above and after a careful analysis of the document drawn up by the court of auditors, i am in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the final annual accounts and the court of auditors' report, i am in favour of granting the executive director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the emcdda. i voted against the discharge because i cannot support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. ‒ while balanced, i do not share some of the positions taken in the vaughan report and therefore have opted to express myself by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ report gives discharge to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. abstain from the vote!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that the observatory has taken measures to further reduce the need to adapt the technical specifications of contracts and to ensure that all interested parties are informed more effectively whenever such adaptations are necessary, in particular by publishing more explicit notices on its website. i also welcome the review and publication of the policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, in line with the commission's guidelines, and i join my call on the observatory to improve its procedures and practices for the protection of the union's financial interests and to contribute actively to a results-oriented discharge process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the emcdda.
in writing. ‒ i am also satisfied with this report and that is why i voted in favour. although i recognize that there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve more and more real savings, i still believe that, even in this case, the resources have been invested in an appropriate way. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following a careful analysis of the court of auditors' assessment of the financial position of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the emcdda's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to the emcdda, following the careful assessment carried out by the court of auditors. the emcdda has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management, which do not contain material errors. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in light of the court of auditors' statement on the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, i support the report approving the discharge to be given to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' annual report did not reveal any critical observations or findings on the financial and budgetary management of the european maritime safety agency for the year 2014. moreover, according to the latest surveys, the agency is generally perceived as highly professional and technically competent in the performance of its tasks. i voted against the decision to discharge the budget, however, because i could not support certain wasteful expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the positions taken in the vaughan report. i have therefore decided not to vote in favour of discharge of the emsa joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report gives discharge to the agency. however, the commission has imposed a penalty on the agency's draft budget for 2016 due to the fact that the rate of implementation of commitments in 2014 was below the 95% target set by the commission. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,78% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 93,77%. the contribution of the agency in terms of maritime safety, prevention of pollution caused by ships and assistance to member states and the commission in the framework of international and union law is of considerable importance. i therefore find it inappropriate that, despite the extension of the competences to a new set of primary functions and the introduction of new ancillary functions that the agency will have to perform following the entry into force of its amended basic regulation in february 2013, staff reduction and budgetary cuts had to be applied in 2014. i welcome the agency's cooperation with other european agencies on the refugee crisis and stress that the agency must have the financial, material and human resources it needs to carry out its functions effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of emsa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it shows that the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was drawn up without any material error and that the supervisory and control systems examined, as regards the various expenditure items, have proved effective. i thought it only right to give my approval.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the reliability of the annual accounts examined by the court of auditors, i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge procedure of the european maritime safety agency for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european maritime safety agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to the european maritime safety agency, following the careful evaluation carried out by the court of auditors. emsa has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management, which are free from material misstatement. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. the operations by emsa for the financial year 2014 have produced positive results regarding the regularity and legality of the operations, as evidenced by the court of auditors' annual report. it is essential to encourage the cooperation of the agency with other european agencies by receiving increased financial, material and human resources, so that it can expand its action and provide services on a more global scale.
in writing. ‒ i share the observations in the report and, having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors, which acknowledges that there are no material errors, i approve the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ at the end of the budgetary cycle, parliament carries out a political audit of the budgetary reports of the european institutions, in any event referring to the court of auditors' assessment of the budgetary reports. as regards enisa, i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european union agency for network and information security.
in writing. ‒ while the report on the eu agency for network and information security (enisa) is overall balanced, it refers to an institution that is still problematic with regard to its own expenditure. i did not therefore intend to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report grants discharge to the agency and points to delays in the payment of the rent for its offices in athens, which is damaging to the image of the institutions. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i welcome the fact that the agency has adopted internal policies to improve the viability and environmental compatibility of its facilities. a major step forward towards meeting these two needs was the adoption in january 2015 of a paperless platform for the workflow and storage of internal documents: the agency has virtually eliminated all paper-based workflows, including financial transactions and human resources files and documents, and replaced them with electronic documents and workflows in an attempt to achieve a paperless office environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of enisa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the various economic operations were carried out in a regular manner, in compliance with the internal and external controls to which the agencies are subject. i also think that the budget has been drawn up without any major errors and i think it is right to give my approval.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european network and information security agency in preventing and addressing network security problems is of considerable importance. therefore, in the light of the agency's budgetary control efforts for the financial year 2014, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of emsa's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european network and information security agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. the agency has produced a number of positive results in relation to the financial year 2014 through a series of actions, such as the adoption of internal policies aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness and environmental compatibility of its facilities by eliminating paper-based workflows and replacing them with electronic workflows and documents.
in writing. ‒ as the final annual accounts of the european network and information security agency are in line with the court of auditors' report, i considered it appropriate to give a favourable opinion on the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european railway agency.
in writing. ‒ mr vaughan's report on the european railway agency raises some criticisms about the agency's costs, with which i do not agree. so i have decided to vote in favour of abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european railway agency (era) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report gives discharge to the agency. budget execution is falling. the agency has two offices in lille and valenciennes, which are therefore particularly onerous. results achieved, positively assessed by the report. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts. however, the use of two locations (lille and valenciennes) for the performance of its functions exposes the agency to additional costs and constitutes a waste of european taxpayers' money. i believe that this issue must be addressed in a way that rewards taxpayers' money and restores operational efficiency. the role of the efa in ensuring the safety and interoperability of the european rail system is of considerable importance and the role and competences of the agency are to be reviewed in the framework of the fourth railway package. as the agency is given increased responsibilities, it is necessary that it has the necessary financial, material and human resources to carry out its new additional functions effectively and efficiently. i am therefore concerned about the contradiction between the rules extending the agency's mandate, which were recently approved, and the budget cuts for the agency, which are foreseen under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the tfa.
in writing. ‒ the data presented show that the financial and budgetary management of the european railway agency (era) was on time and, above all, was carried out in the most transparent manner. for these reasons, and because i believe that in this case the resources have been invested for the future growth of the agency itself, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' assessment, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european railway agency. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ in line with the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, and in accordance with the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report of the european railway agency highlights the agency's efforts in the field of transparency and communication. i voted in favour of the report because, although it notes the good rate of implementation of appropriations, it does not fail to point out the lack of efficiency on the part of the agency in the management of its premises and in the cooperation with the member states, which is necessary for the ever greater transparency of procedures.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) states that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts. i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the discharge for esma, as i did not share the positions taken in the report under vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european railway agency (era) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question. i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ esma will need more resources in line with the increased responsibilities linked to the completion of the european system of financial supervision (esfs), of which esma is a part. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of financing, based on a separate budget line in the union budget and the total replacement of contributions from national authorities by fees charged by market operators. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,89%, an increase of 5,71% compared to 2013. i would point out that the authority's blended funding system, which is heavily dependent on contributions from the national competent authorities, is inadequate, inflexible and burdensome and constitutes a potential threat to its independence. i therefore join the call to the commission to launch a different financing system, based on a separate budget line in the union budget and the total replacement of contributions from national authorities with fees charged by market operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of esma.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed with this report because i believe it has been drawn up with the transparency necessary to monitor the use of resources. i also believe that the resources spent have been used effectively to achieve the objectives set. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following a careful analysis of the court of auditors' report, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european securities and markets authority. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014. the aim of the institute is to promote a common supervisory system throughout the internal market to ensure financial stability, a better integrated financial market and a high level of consumer protection in the union.
in writing. ‒ whereas esma has an important role to play in ensuring an integrated, transparent and secure european financial market. since the european court of auditors considers that the operations of esma on which the annual accounts for the financial year are based are legitimate and regular, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the foundation's annual accounts. however, as in many other cases, there are shortcomings in the management of procurement and contracts and a lack of transparency in recruitment, which irreparably affects the budget. for these reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european training foundation.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the granting of the etf discharge, as i did not share the views expressed in the report on the european training foundation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european training foundation (etf) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the etf is based in piedmont. in particular, § 1 'welcomes the fact that, following an agreement on the foundation's headquarters, signed in march 2013 with the authorities of the piedmont region in italy, the foundation has carried out the extraordinary maintenance of the premises and has taken direct control of the internal systems such as water, gas and electricity, while the region has retained responsibility for the management and general maintenance of the common systems; notes with satisfaction that in july 2015 the foundation and the piedmont region concluded a new headquarters agreement for the period 2016-2018; i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,90%, which means that commitments were implemented in a timely manner and that the payment appropriations execution rate was high at 94,80%. i am pleased that in 2014 the foundation requested cvs and declarations of interests from its board of directors, director and senior management and that most of the cvs and declarations of interests received were published on the foundation's website.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the etf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge for the european training foundation (etf), based in the heart of my own territory (in turin) because it seeks to channel economic resources towards strengthening, developing and implementing quality education and vocational training systems in the various member states. i think that the economic management has been satisfactory in this respect and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the financial statements presented by the european training foundation, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the eft budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european training foundation. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the etf (european training foundation) following the careful assessment carried out by the court of auditors. the foundation has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with the rules of fairness and sound financial management. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 discharge report: european securities and markets authority - esma - is in favour of me. the objective of the report is to urge the foundation to improve its procedures and practices for the protection of the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge process.
in writing. ‒ welcoming the foundation's efforts in budgetary control and hoping for further commitment by the foundation itself to improve its procedures and practices for the protection of the financial interests of the union, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ under regulation no 1077/2011 the commission was responsible for the establishment and operation of the agency until it was granted financial autonomy in may 2013. i voted against the discharge because i cannot support the waste and the shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ while overall balanced, i do not share some of the positions contained in the vaughan report on eu-lisa and have therefore opted for an abstention vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, states that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, i would like to point out that the agency has not followed up the recommendation made by parliament last year to develop policies to prevent and manage conflicts of interest; i therefore join the call on the agency to remedy this situation, to publish the cvs and declarations of interests (instead of declarations of absence of conflict of interest) of its director, chair and board members and national experts, as requested by parliament last year and in line with the guidelines published by the commission in december 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of eu-lisa.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the operational management of it systems plays an important role in implementing the eu's policies on freedom, security and justice. in particular, eu-lisa is responsible for the operational management of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and eurodac. these large-scale information systems support the border authorities of the member states in order to ensure a high level of security in the eu. the budget decrease of 3.2% compared with the previous year shows an improvement in spending capacity. we felt that the agency should make a further effort in the next financial year to make its recruitment procedures more transparent. i therefore believe that the conditions are right to grant discharge to the european it operations agency and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ having noted, on the basis of the documentation submitted to me, that this agency has taken steps to improve its capacity to plan, monitor and implement the available appropriations, and to ensure greater coordination between operational and administrative functions, i could only express my support. this is also because part of the economic resources allocated to this agency have been invested in further defining and improving effective internal controls.
in writing. ‒ having noted the legality and regularity of the financial and budgetary management of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european agency for the operational management of it systems. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' observations, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal of my colleague concerning the granting of a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ at the end of each budgetary cycle, the european parliament prepares a discharge decision approving the revenue and expenditure of the institutions' budgets. this is a form of control over the management of resources and financial appropriations to which each institution and agency is subject. as regards the agency for safety and health at work, the court of auditors' report welcomes the policies adopted by the agency for the control of the 2014 budget. however, i voted against the discharge because the implementation of the budget is not without waste and inefficiencies.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. ‒ although the report by my colleague is overall balanced, i have identified some criticisms which have led me not to endorse the discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ 'recognises the essential role played by the agency in implementing the european union strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020'; i vote against!
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,65% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 75,59%. i am pleased that no conflict of interest situations have been identified since the adoption of a conflict of interest policy by the agency in november 2014. however, i support the call for a general improvement in the prevention and fight against corruption through a holistic approach, which should include first and foremost better public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems facing eu-osha.
in writing. ‒ i believe that, on the basis of the report submitted to me, the resources administered by this agency have been well invested, both in respect of the responsibilities to which the agency itself must respond and in respect of the fundamental principle of transparency. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this report as well.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration of the observations made in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution with observations on the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work takes note of the good management of the budget during the financial year 2014, with an implementation rate of 98,65%, and of the agency's commitment to adopting both precise internal control rules, with the help of an effective self-assessment system, and a policy on conflicts of interest. it also acknowledges the agency's work to implement an interactive online risk assessment tool and to promote a workplace risk prevention campaign. my vote in favour of this resolution therefore supports the action of this agency in implementing the european union strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020, in the light of the positive results achieved in the first year of implementation of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the european agency for safety and health at work, following the careful evaluation carried out by the court of auditors. the agency has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management, which are free from material misstatement. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014. the european agency for safety and health at work plays a key role in the implementation of the european union's strategic framework for health and safety at work. the court of auditors' annual review shows that the work of the agency has produced significant results, although greater efforts are still needed in the prevention of and fight against corruption through improved public access to documents, strengthened transparency registers and increased cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ since the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances both as regards the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and as regards the legality and regularity of its operations, i considered it necessary to give a favourable opinion. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ parliament, in the exercise of its supervisory functions, adopted the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the euratom supply agency. according to the court of auditors' report, the agency's budgetary control efforts achieved a rate of implementation of its financial resources of 91,08%. i voted against the discharge because i cannot support the waste and the shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the euratom supply agency.
in writing. ‒ the vaughan report on the euratom supply agency contains some points with which i do not agree. that is why i have abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the euratom supply agency because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ no particular criticisms are noted. i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the position of the committee on budgetary control granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 because the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of those annual accounts. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a commitment appropriations execution rate of 91,08%, down by 3,92% compared to 2013, while the payment appropriations execution rate was 81,13%, up by 21,91% compared to 2013. i also welcome the fact that the agency has an adequate risk management and control strategy and has taken all the necessary actions in risk assessment and risk mitigation to align its internal control system with the requirements of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of euratom.
in writing. ‒ i have examined the documentation and i recognise that the agency in question has an appropriate strategy for managing the economic resources allocated to it. i also acknowledge that these resources have been spent with a general view to saving, in compliance with the various forms of internal and external control to which they are subject. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the reliability and transparency of the financial and budgetary management of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against granting discharge to euratom. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the auditor in her report on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency expressed her positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the operations for the financial year 2014. the agency is also recognised for its sound risk management and control strategy and for its positive results in aligning its internal control system with the court's requirements. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to grant the director-general of the euratom procurement agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, basing my assessment also on the observations of the relevant committees. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the foundation's annual accounts. i voted against the discharge because i could not support certain waste and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ given the protracted labour crisis affecting italy and many of the member states, i wonder how there can be passages in this report which praise the work of this foundation and consider it valuable for the results achieved on 'improving the living and working conditions' of european citizens. for these reasons, i did not intend to support the granting of the discharge by my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ 'the foundation has continued to make a key contribution to policy development and has drawn extensively on its advice for key eu policy papers.' the results, as regards 'improving living and working conditions', are in plain sight. it was a joke. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2014 are reliable. the 2014 budget is eur 20 774 000, an increase of 0,73% compared to the previous year. the budgetary control efforts undertaken by the foundation during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,66%. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations is 79.80%. the high overall commitment rate of appropriations indicates that commitments were made in a timely manner. eurofound makes a vital contribution to policy development and is the eu's preferred source for key policy documents, while also acting as a primary point of contact for any necessary consultations. in addition, the key performance indicators suggest a high visibility and recognition of the scientific value of eurofound's research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of eurofund.
in writing. ‒ despite the delicate nature of the subject matter of this foundation, i believe that the economic balance sheet is an unquestionable reflection of optimal financial management. in view of this and the fact that the resources in question have been administered in a transparent manner, i could only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eurofound makes an important contribution through the exchange of information in support of community policies aimed at improving living and working conditions, and therefore i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of budgetary discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the opinions of the committees responsible for the subject and on the basis of the findings of the court of auditors in its report on the foundation's annual accounts for the year under review, i have considered it appropriate to express myself in a positive manner. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the unit's annual accounts. i have decided to vote against the discharge because there is no sound guidance on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and there are too high reports.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the judicial cooperation unit of the european union.
in writing. ‒ while balanced, i do not share some of the positions taken in the vaughan report and therefore have opted to express myself by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - despite the highlights, you're discharged. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the financial statements of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) show that the final accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable. the amount in question is eur 33 667 239, representing an increase of 4,04% compared to 2013. it should be recalled that the entire budget of the agency comes from the union budget. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,82%, an increase of 0,21% compared to 2013. it is also noted that the payment appropriations execution rate was 87,31%, a decrease of 2,34% compared to 2013. by facilitating cooperation between the competent ministries and judicial authorities of the member states, eurojust performs the indispensable task of coordinating european police forces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the work of the union agencies is of fundamental importance for the achievement of the objectives set by the treaties. in this sense, we can now finally welcome the progress made by the institutions in consolidating and exchanging good practice and in cooperating and supporting each other and the competent national authorities. in particular, i believe that eurojust has played a key role in recent years in the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice for the benefit of the citizens of the european union by providing significant support in coordinating investigations carried out by the national authorities of the member states. this has in many cases enabled effective action to be taken against transnational networks responsible for particularly serious crimes. i believe that eurojust should not only be fully supported in the performance of its assigned tasks, but that its powers should also be increased, so that it can soon serve as a basis for the creation of a genuine european public prosecutor's office, to adequately combat crimes against the financial interests of the union, as provided for in article 86 tfeu. for these reasons i have voted in favour of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ having noted how the resources allocated to the eurojust unit have been managed in accordance with the purpose for which they were allocated, namely for the cooperation between the various judicial apparatus within the european union, i could only express my support.
in writing. ‒ the european union judicial cooperation unit plays a key role in promoting and improving coordination between national authorities to combat serious organised and crossborder crime. i therefore, welcoming the conclusions of the court of auditors, decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for eurojust. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to eurojust following the careful assessment undertaken by the court of auditors. eurojust plays a key role in judicial cooperation and has implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with the rules of fairness and sound financial management. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ in line with the court of auditors' assessments of eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) states that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts. however, there is a need for general improvement in the prevention and fight against corruption, as this has a negative impact on the budget. for these reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european police office.
in writing. ‒ in my report on the european police office, i did not find enough elements to express a positive assessment of this body. that is why i did not support the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european police office (europol) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution does not identify any particular criticisms. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because the accounts of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014 are reliable. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the implementation of the budgetary controls in 2014 was marked by an increase in the number of budgetary controls, which translated into an execution rate of 99,70%. it is therefore clear that the undertakings were entered into in a timely manner. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 93%, an increase of 2.80% over the previous year. in 2014, the agency published a new code of conduct containing guidelines on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest. thanks to its central position in the european security architecture, europol offers a unique range of services including support for law enforcement operations in the field, a centre for the exchange of information on criminal activities and a law enforcement competence centre. europol's main and current objective is to rapidly establish specialised units in the immediate response to new security threats, while ensuring the protection of citizens' privacy and democratic oversight of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems facing europol.
in writing. ‒ the work of the union agencies is of fundamental importance for the achievement of the objectives set by the treaties. in this sense, we can now finally welcome the progress made by the institutions in consolidating and exchanging good practice and in cooperating and supporting each other and the competent national authorities. in particular, i believe that europol has played a key role in recent years in the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice for the benefit of the citizens of the european union by providing significant support, including operational support, to investigations carried out by the national authorities of the member states. this has in many cases led to the dismantling of transnational criminal networks responsible for particularly serious crimes. i believe that europol should not only be fully supported in the performance of its tasks, but that its powers should be increased and, consequently, the human and financial resources available to it should be increased. it should not be forgotten that, with the same budget and staff, europol has responded promptly to the terrorist threat that has become a reality in the recent attacks in paris and brussels, by deploying specialised and exclusively dedicated services. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ it is clear from the report that the financial resources allocated to europol, the european police office, have been managed with care and with a view to achieving the best possible result in relation to the security objectives assigned to it. i also note that these resources were invested in full compliance with the rules of internal and external financial control to which they are subject, and i could only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2014, in view of europol's proven reliability in its financial management and its commitment to improving the use of appropriations, while ensuring the quality of its mission.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the observations on the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 of the european police office (europol) takes note of the court of auditors' opinion that in its report on the annual accounts it stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts of europol and that during the financial year 2014 budgetary control efforts had improved, with a budget implementation rate of 99,70%, which means that commitments were made in a timely manner. the resolution also calls for overall improvement in the prevention and fight against corruption through a holistic approach, starting with better public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers, and through improved cooperation between member states and with relevant third countries. my vote in favour of this resolution is therefore to support the work of the europol office for the 2014 budget year.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to europol. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on europol's discharge following the careful assessment undertaken by the court of auditors. europol plays a key role in police cooperation and has implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the proposal in question, the conformity of the final annual accounts of the european police office with the court of auditors' report and the acknowledgement of the efforts made by the office in the field of budgetary control led me to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the closure of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) in view of the positive findings made by the court of auditors. the agency appears to be involved in court cases for mistreatment of employees. in the light of the foregoing and in view of the budgetary imbalances, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european union agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the criticisms in the report on the european union agency for fundamental rights have convinced me to express my opinion by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - despite the highlights, you're discharged. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because, according to the financial statements, the final budget of the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2014 is eur 21 229 000, a reduction of 0.56% compared to the previous year. the court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014. the implementation rate was 100%, as in the previous year. the high overall commitment rate of appropriations indicates that commitments were made in a timely manner. the agency provides independent evidence-based advice to eu and national policy-makers, making fundamental rights debates, policies and legislation more informed and targeted. the wide range of topics covers particularly sensitive issues such as discrimination, access to justice, racism and xenophobia, data protection, victims' rights and children's rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the fra.
in writing. ‒ the fundamental rights agency plays a key role in providing assistance and advice to eu and member state institutions and policy-makers, supporting them in the implementation of national fundamental rights policies. through large-scale investigations, legal research and annual publications for justice practitioners, fra has proven to be a key agency for keeping european and national stakeholders informed about the fundamental rights situation in european countries. refugee protection, immigration, gender violence, racism and xenophobia, children's rights, discrimination are the main themes of the agency's research and studies. in the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament we were pleased to note that all the procurement procedures were subject to a prudential review prior to the publication of the call for tenders, which led to corrective actions also in the specifications. the high overall commitment rate of 100% indicates that commitments were made in a timely manner and the regular publication in the media of updates and reports convinced the public of the good work done and led to the granting of budgetary discharge to the agency. i voted in favour of that.
in writing. ‒ i am of the opinion that, once again, the resources allocated to the european union agency for fundamental rights have been used in order to achieve the objectives effectively and concretely. i also note that, on the basis of the data contained in the report, the various audits and forms of financial control have been carried out in the most transparent way and that they have made an excellent use of economic resources. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ having noted the sound management of the financial appropriations, in line with the objectives set out in the agency's mandate in the field of fundamental rights in the areas of community competence, i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european agency for fundamental rights. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the draft decision on the discharge to the eu fundamental rights agency, following the careful assessment undertaken by the court of auditors. the agency has correctly implemented the budget and reported on its activities in accordance with rules of fairness and sound financial management, which are free from material misstatement. for the reasons listed, i believe i shall vote in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ given the agency's budgetary control efforts during the 2014 financial year, given the european agency's own commitments to comply with european regulations on internal organisation and activities and finally given the positive assessment of the relevant parliamentary committee, i voted in favour of the colleague's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union provides excellent critical insights, which have led me not to support the granting of discharge to this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ notes from the court of auditors' report the considerable improvements observed in the audits of declared expenditure. i vote strongly against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the annual accounts of frontex accurately present the financial position of the agency as at 31 december 2014. some improvements can be seen in the ex ante and ex post checks of expenditure declared by the cooperating countries under the grant agreements. the agency introduced in june 2013 a more comprehensive and risk-based system of ex ante controls, including the obligation to produce selected additional documents together with the final payment application. this system of ex ante control shall be complemented by ex post controls, carried out at the premises of the beneficiaries or in the form of documentary examination. payments not subject to ex ante controls are therefore automatically subject to ex post controls. the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,65%, representing an increase of 0,9% compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of frontex.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states, frontex, plays a key role in supporting national border authorities in carrying out identification procedures at crisis points identified by the european commission. the european borders are currently affected by an unprecedented flow of migration and, thanks to the funds allocated to the agency, the agency has been able to provide added value to the operations carried out along the borders of the european union. the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament believes that the audit system should be improved, as well as improvements in the management of payments and audits to provide greater guarantees on the legality and regularity of grant operations. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the union state aid rules to the scheme. in view of a possible further increase, the agency should adopt a budgetary planning more in line with the situation envisaged. the budget spent in 2014 however shows no concerns and therefore a discharge was granted.
in writing. ‒ i have noted in the analysis of the report submitted to me that this agency has made such efforts in budgetary control that the resources entrusted to it have been used in an optimal way. i have also noted that this has been in keeping with the principle of transparency and has been developed in a general spirit of savings. i could only express my support for this. there is much to be said about the mission of this agency and how it carries it out, but at least on the accounting side there is nothing to add.
in writing. ‒ the role of frontex is crucial to tackling the new challenges of border control, which is a delicate area that requires coordination between member states. having noted the soundness of frontex's financial position, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which collects the comments on the decisions on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget of frontex, acknowledges the improvements in the ex ante and ex post checks of expenditure and payments declared by the countries cooperating under the grant agreements, but also notes some irregularities in the supporting documents produced and in the guarantees provided to justify the operations covered by the grant framework. by voting in favour of this resolution, i intend to support the role of frontex but at the same time encourage improvements in some of the areas identified, such as transparency of documents and rules on conflicts of interest. i also support the search for a more efficient and less complex financing mechanism than the current one, in view of the constantly increasing number of tasks performed, operations undertaken and grant agreements, so that the legitimacy and regularity of the agency's operations can be checked at all times. finally, i support the formulation of a headquarters agreement between the agency and the host member state for the purpose of implementing operations, which would contribute to greater transparency as regards the conditions under which the agency and its staff operate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of the budgetary discharge for frontex. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge to be given to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu, on the basis of the careful evaluation carried out by the court of auditors. the agency has developed draft rules on whistleblowing which should be adopted by the first half of 2016 and should take into account the ombudsman's recommendations in this regard. it shall also provide for the improvement of awareness raising activities on conflict of interest policy, including integrity and transparency. the agency is therefore urged to take our suggestions into account. for the reasons i have mentioned and after a careful analysis of the document, i think i shall vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ given that the court of auditors has certified the reliability of the accounts of the european agency concerned and has assessed the legality and regularity of its operations for the financial year 2014, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the vaughan report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european gnss agency.
in writing. ‒ the report by my colleague on the european gnss agency contains some unclear passages, which is why i voted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the european gnss agency (gnss) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report does not identify any particular criticisms. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because the budgetary control efforts undertaken by the european navigation satellite systems agency during the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99.84%, which is the same as in 2013. the agency is responsible for maximising the return on european investment in global navigation satellite systems (gnss) in terms of user benefits, economic growth and competitiveness. the eu body in question is responsible for the security accreditation of its global satellite navigation systems, the operation of the galileo security monitoring centre, the promotion and marketing of gnss services and other tasks delegated by the commission relating to the implementation of the programmes concerning the european geostationary navigation supplementary service (egnos) and galileo, including the management of those programmes. europe is maintaining its leading role in the space sector and is speeding up the development of modern satellite navigation systems under civilian control. as such, europe is politically committed to the galileo project and, through egnos, has already demonstrated its scientific and technological capabilities in the gnss field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of gnss.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report because i believe it was drafted with the transparency needed to monitor the use of resources. i am convinced, on the basis of the data presented to me, that the use of these financial resources has been in full compliance with the objectives which the agency itself had set itself, and i am well aware of this and have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency, in the light of the legality of the financial operations and the fairness of the financial management for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge for the european gnss. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the position expressed by the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for 2014, i voted in favour, while hoping for more efforts by the agency in the area of conflict of interest and risk management.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report for the postponement of the discharge for the 2014 budget for embedded information systems.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is balanced and acceptable, and because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors, i have voted in favour of this text and not to grant the artemis joint undertaking discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision against granting discharge to the artemis joint undertaking for the 2014 budget because i believe that the management of its financial resources is less transparent than it could be and that a clear improvement is needed in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote for it. the accompanying resolution proposes interesting criticisms to accompany the postponement of the discharge, referring, for example, to critical reports also by the court of auditors. artemis was established in 2007 to act in the field of developing technologies for information systems in various fields of application. in the meantime, it has been merged with eniac into ecsel, a joint venture which is still active in the technology sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the accounts for the year 2014 of the artemis joint undertaking are reliable. the transactions are legal and regular. artemis contributes to the definition and implementation of a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems under the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs has placed a strong emphasis on investments in knowledge and innovation. in this respect, the seventh framework programme is launching information and communication technologies, public-private partnerships by joint ventures that are the result of the work of the european technology platforms implemented under the sixth framework programme. thanks to the artemis initiative, substantial developments are also taking place in the related fields of embedded information systems, innovative medicines, aeronautics and air transport, hydrogen and fuel cells, and global monitoring for the environment and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of artemis.
in writing. ‒ having considered the importance of the objective of the artemis joint undertaking, namely to define a joint research programme for the development of technologies and information systems essential to enhancing the competitiveness of the union, and having noted that the use of the resources allocated to this joint undertaking has been made in full compliance with this objective, i felt it was natural to express my support for this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the role of artemis is of great importance as it fosters public-private partnerships in embedded information systems through cooperation between the different actors in the sector. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the granting of discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ on the proposal under consideration, based on my assessment of the concerns raised by the court of auditors' report, i considered myself able to give a positive opinion. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky research programme (which is part of the single european sky objective) aims to develop new technologies to reduce the environmental impact of european air traffic. the joint undertaking has developed an efficient internal control system and has received guidance from the commission on the monitoring of research results. however, i have decided to vote against the discharge because there are still shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the joint undertaking - aviation and environment.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the complaints raised against the clean sky joint undertaking and therefore did not intend to support the granting of discharge for the financial year 2014 with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the joint undertaking - aviation and environment (clean sky) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote against it. this is a report which does not offer any particularly critical points which might merit a different vote. clean sky is a public-private partnership between the european commission and the european aviation industry to produce cleaner, less polluting aircraft.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the clean sky joint undertaking's financial statements as the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are in all respects true to its financial position as at 31 december 2014. the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date are in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial regulation. the clean sky joint technology initiative is part of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. in quantitative terms, one of the main objectives of clean sky is to reduce co2 emissions by 50%, nox by 80% and noise pollution by 50% by 2020. in addition to clean sky, five other similar initiatives are planned in the fields of miniaturisation, invisible computer systems, innovative medicines, hydrogen and fuel cells, and global environmental and safety surveillance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of clean sky.
in writing. ‒ i consider the data presented in this statement to be satisfactory on the whole. i also believe that there will always be work to be done to achieve ever better savings. i think, however, that this report is a good example of budgetary management. i am sure that this company will be able to devise a sound systematic strategy to reduce costs further. i am confident of that and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, in view of the legality of the financial and budgetary management as certified by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of the budgetary discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ regarding the motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour of granting discharge to the executive director of the joint undertaking in question.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' annual report presents a general and in some respects deficient balance sheet of the clean sky joint undertaking. i voted in favour of the discharge on the basis of the observations and requests that parliament has made to the court of auditors with this report, which recognises the achievements of the company under fp7 funding, while at the same time calling for more specific monitoring of the company's performance in the legal framework of the horizon 2020 plan.
in writing. ‒ ecsel (electronic components and systems for european leadership) is a public-private partnership for electronic components and systems. the report indicates that the internal control systems have not yet been fully implemented. the efforts made to build a performance monitoring system are also acknowledged, but greater collaboration with the commission is required. for these reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report for the postponement of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the ecsel joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i do not consider the text under vote to be sufficiently balanced and shareable, and therefore i voted against the granting of the discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the ecsel joint undertaking because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ in fact, ecsel was set up to replace eniac and artemis. these are always joint ventures in the electronics sector. the text contains some right critical remarks, but it is not sufficiently incisive. it shall also accompany the decision granting discharge. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because the accounts for the year in question are reliable and in line with the rules on the functioning of the european union. the joint undertaking has also made significant progress in monitoring and communication. the ecsel joint undertaking was established in 2014 to implement the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' until 2024. the main objectives pursued by ecsel are to contribute to the development of a strong and globally competitive industry in the field of electronic components and systems in the eu and to harmonise the strategies of the member states, so as to attract private investment and contribute to the consolidation of public finances by avoiding unnecessary duplication and fragmentation of efforts. the important role of enterprise in creating a dynamic ecosystem of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) should not be overlooked.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of ecsel.
in writing. ‒ the administrative management of this agency is not particularly problematic and the division into two separate legal entities appears to have been a good move. i also agree with the rapporteur, mr marinescu, whose views i respect, and i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ given ecsel's action to promote and strengthen public-private partnerships in nanotechnology, ecsel has proven to be of particular relevance in fostering investment in the sector and supporting competitiveness and innovation. therefore, having read the comments submitted, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament decision on the discharge to be given to the ecsl joint undertaking for 2014. with reference to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014, it is considered that it contains too many general comments instead of valid and specific ones. it is therefore necessary to pay greater attention to the annual financial results. in view of the inadequate information activities by the joint undertaking, the discharge authority requested the court to draw up a report on the capacity of the joint undertakings and to ensure the efficient execution of eu programmes in the field of research, technological development and demonstration.
in writing. ‒ in view of the report of the committee responsible and the statement of the court of auditors on the reliability of the accounts and the legality of the company's operations, i considered it appropriate to express myself in a positive manner.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. on this occasion, the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides, on a recommendation from the council, whether or not to grant final discharge for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a key step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ in view of the concerns raised by the court of auditors regarding the eniac joint undertaking, i have voted in favour of the marinescu report calling for the postponement of the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision against granting discharge to the eniac joint undertaking for the 2014 budget because i believe that the management of its financial resources is less transparent than it could be and that a clear improvement is needed in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution supports the decision to postpone discharge for eniac, which was set up in 2007 and is responsible for research to develop expertise in nanoelectronics. the text expresses concern at some of the critical elements contained in the court of auditors' report. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the accounts for the financial year 2014 of the eniac joint undertaking are reliable. eniac was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of core competencies for nanoelectronics in various application domains. the main objective is therefore to support the nanoelectronics sector in europe by creating investment opportunities in research and development and human capital through the promotion of strategic and sustainable public-private partnerships. the maximum eu contribution to the joint undertaking is eur 450 million from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the eniac.
in writing. ‒ i am also satisfied with this report and that is why i voted in favour. although i recognize that there is still a lot of work to be done here to achieve more and more real savings, i believe that this joint undertaking has managed its expenditure well. i therefore voted in favour, with the further aim of increasing transparency, in the belief that this particular objective is due to all citizens of the union, since it is always a matter of community resources.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the committee on budgetary control's assessment and the importance of this sector for the development of advanced nanotechnologies, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the granting of discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a parliament decision on the discharge to be given to the eniac joint undertaking. the activities which are subject to analysis are financial and budgetary management, internal audit and internal control. in particular, the internal audit service did not submit any new reports during the financial year 2014; the management of the joint undertaking has taken action on all recommendations contained in previous reports. in this regard, we invited the joint undertaking to share with the discharge authority the actions taken and the progress made in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion under consideration. however, while acknowledging that the joint undertaking's accounts for the first half of 2014 faithfully present the financial position as at 26 june 2014, i believe that further and more detailed analyses by the joint undertaking are necessary and desirable. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch and fch2) is a public-private partnership in the field of energy. the report welcomes the fact that the main priorities for 2014 were the redefinition of the visual identity and the redesign of the website, as well as the improvement of branding and visibility. however, i voted against the discharge because of the shortcomings in financial planning.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i found the text accompanying the decision to grant discharge to be weak, devoid of any critical elements and not to be shared, so i did not intend to support the granting of the discharge to the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the 2014 budget of the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution accompanying the decision to grant discharge expresses only some vague and unsubstantiated criticism. it is not sufficiently incisive and is pleased with too many elements. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the accounts of the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking (fch) are fully reliable. the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership with the aim of focusing on the development of commercial applications and thereby facilitating further efforts by companies to rapidly introduce fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. although many resources are already committed at community and national level, they are not yet sufficient to overcome the enormous challenges posed by the actual transition from an oil-based to a hydrogen-based economy. a greater and better coordinated effort at continental level is needed to ensure that european players in the field have a favourable environment in which to pursue their research activities in order to achieve the ambitious objectives set. the maximum eu contribution for the entire period is eur 470 000 000 for the fch joint undertaking and eur 665 000 000 for the fch 2 joint undertaking, funded from the seventh framework programme and horizon 2020 respectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i have noted in the report submitted to me how the budgetary control efforts of the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking in 2014 have resulted in a strong resource optimisation and savings, and i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge. the data presented show that the management of economic and financial resources was optimal.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking, through the proper management of funding, has ensured the improvement of the system for monitoring the research results of its projects and has contributed to the implementation of the seventh framework programme on energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of the budgetary discharge for the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the discharge of the combustion and hydrogen cells joint undertaking, has carefully assessed the court of auditors' report. it complained about the lack of certain information on contributions in kind and cash and urged the joint undertaking to undertake adequate information activities on its activities and to make the process as transparent as possible. on the basis of these suggestions, i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ in line with the court of auditors' observations on the annual accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and in line with the report of the committee on budgetary control, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking is a public-private partnership for the pharmaceutical sector. the report shall indicate that the joint undertaking has completed a monitoring audit and submitted operational performance reports. the joint undertaking has also acted on all the recommendations. the joint undertaking also published a short analysis of the results of the joint undertaking's projects and the socioeconomic effects in february 2016. however, the potential conflicts of interest have led me to vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the joint undertaking for the innovative medicines initiative 2
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the positions taken in the marinescu report. i have therefore decided not to vote in favour of the discharge of the innovative medicines initiative (imi) joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (imi) because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i vote against, as the resolution supports the granting of the discharge to the joint undertaking for innovative medicines, set up in 2014 under the seventh framework programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the documentation examined shows that the accounts of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking are to be considered fully reliable. the imi joint undertaking shall be managed by the commission in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the imi joint undertaking aims to significantly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process so that the pharmaceutical industry, in the long term, produces more effective and safer innovative medicines. to this end, it promotes collaboration between the main actors involved in healthcare research, including universities, pharmaceutical and other industries, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), patient associations and regulatory bodies in the field of medicines. the maximum eu contribution to the imi joint undertaking is eur 1 million, while the contribution to imi 2 is eur 1 638 000 000.
in writing. ‒ this report is also clear in expressing how this joint undertaking has used the economic resources allocated to it in full compliance with the internal and external controls established for the verification of expenditure. i was also pleased with the excellent level of transparency in the documentation and could easily say that i was in favour.
in writing. ‒ after a careful analysis of the observations made by the court of auditors and of the effectiveness and efficiency of the joint undertaking's mandate in ensuring that the pharmaceutical sector produces safe innovative medicines, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of the discharge to the joint undertaking for innovative medicines. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines ('imi joint undertaking') set up in december 2007 aims to significantly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process to enable the pharmaceutical industry to produce more effective and safer innovative medicines in the long term. however, it is necessary that the eu institutions and bodies produce a report on financial and budgetary management each year and that the information provided by the joint undertaking in that report is harmonised and not incomplete for greater transparency and effective control.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the discharge to be given to the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (imi) gives a close look at the court of auditors' report on financial and budgetary management, calls for proposals, conflicts of interest, legal framework, and internal control systems. notes the court of auditors' judgment on the legality and regularity of the transactions regarding the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, which acknowledges that the joint undertaking has complied with the materiality threshold; at the same time, the joint undertaking is invited to undertake appropriate information activities on its activities and to make the procedure as transparent as possible. in the light of the above, i am voting in favour of the report on the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of imi.
in writing. ‒ in line with the court of auditors' observations on the analysis of the annual accounts of the joint undertaking in question, i voted in favour of the proposal of my colleague.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) and the development of fusion energy is a public-private partnership in the field of energy. the report shows that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking. however, some rules on internal control and financial accounting remain to be implemented. it is also noted that the joint undertaking should have developed definitions and methodologies for identifying merger-related intellectual property claims. i voted in favour of the report because the analysis in it faithfully reflects the positive and the critical aspects.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report for the postponement of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the marinescu report on the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy and therefore support the request for a referral back to the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision against granting discharge for the 2014 budget to the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy because i believe that the management of its financial resources is less transparent than it could be and that there is a need for a clear improvement in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour of a resolution accompanying the postponement of the discharge and raising several criticisms of iter management
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the accounts of the european joint undertaking iter are reliable. the related operations and cash flows for the financial year 2014, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation of the joint undertaking, shall be legal and regular. fusion energy is, along with renewable energy and fission energy, one of the three alternatives to fossil fuels. it is by far the most widespread in the universe but at the same time the least developed on earth of these three non-fossil energy sources. the joint european torus (jet) project, which started in 1978, has contributed for several years to cutting-edge research in the field of fusion energy. since 1988, the development of the iter project has marked a new stage in fusion and led in 2001 to a detailed design for an experimental plant, intended to demonstrate the feasibility of fusion as an energy source from which the eu could derive important benefits, especially in order to ensure the security and diversity of its energy supply in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i believe that greater savings should always be pursued, especially when it comes to european resources. in view of this and in view of the fact that this joint undertaking has used the resources at its disposal to optimise its operation and efficiency as much as possible, in particular with a view to achieving its objectives, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in view of the correct use of financial resources as assessed by the court of auditors, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the granting of discharge to the iter joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a decision tabled by parliament on the discharge to be given to the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. the court of auditors stated that the joint undertaking's 2014 annual accounts present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014. the complexity of the activities of the joint undertaking entails risks of increasing its contribution to the construction phase of the iter project; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the general management is nevertheless legitimate and correct, and i therefore support the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ given that the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to companies for the development of fusion energy, i voted in favour of the proposal of my colleague regarding the 2014 budgetary year of the european joint undertaking iter. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court's report on the iter joint undertaking acknowledges that the joint undertaking is still developing a central and uniform system that allows for more accurate and comprehensive monitoring of estimates and costs. the report by which parliament granted discharge, for which i voted in favour, also expresses concern at the wait for full implementation of the staff regulations and acknowledges that the joint undertaking has failed to adapt to the changes introduced by the new financial regulation.
in writing. ‒ sesar (single european sky atm research) is a public-private partnership which is studying an air traffic management system for the single european sky. the report shall state that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking. the report also notes that 46 recommendations are still to be implemented and that the deadline for implementation of 29 of these recommendations has expired. for these reasons i have decided to vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a fundamental step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the community structure. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the sesar joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical insights which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2014 budget of the sesar joint undertaking because i believe that its finances have been managed in a prudent manner and in line with the budget forecasts for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is a key instrument in the hands of the european parliament to monitor the implementation of the budget of the various european institutions and agencies and thus to exercise in-depth political control over the use of public funds. this is a well-established practice, essential to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the institutions towards eu taxpayers. however, in order to exercise this prerogative fully, all the european institutions must cooperate openly and constructively with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, providing all the necessary information and documents, answering written questions and participating in the hearings and discussions on the implementation of the budget envisaged. in this sense, while most of the institutions are cooperative in facilitating parliament's control over the implementation of their budgets, some institutions are not cooperating satisfactorily, in breach of the principles of loyal cooperation and transparency enshrined in the treaties. i am thinking in particular of the council, which since 2009 has refused to submit to the discharge exercise, effectively evading political control over the more than 3 billion of european public funds spent, thus fuelling the feeling of mistrust towards the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution accompanying the decision on the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking. sesar was established in 2007 to manage the air traffic management research programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the financial situation of the sesar joint undertaking is sound and its accounts are reliable. since 2007, sesar has been helping to modernise air traffic management in europe by improving costs, capacity, safety and environmental impact. the company plays a key role in the implementation of the single european sky initiative. it therefore offers significant social benefits and benefits to airspace users in the context of the wider initiative. by rationalising european airspace, the single european sky also aims to make the air traffic management system more efficient - with benefits such as reduced travel times and improved safety. the financial allocation for the development phase of the sesar i programme is eur 2 100 million, to which the eu, eurocontrol and the participating public and private partners contribute in equal shares. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. some 90% of the funding from eurocontrol and other stakeholders is in the form of in-kind contributions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, in a rigorous and systematic way, the specific problems of sesar.
in writing. ‒ i have examined the documentation and i recognise that the joint undertaking in question has a satisfactory strategy in the management of the economic resources allocated to it. i also acknowledge that these resources have been spent with a general view to saving, in compliance with the various forms of internal and external control to which they are subject. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the observations contained in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the sesar joint undertaking. there are several criticisms and a significant error rate, which the european court of auditors has also noted. i think it is of the utmost importance to work on a basis which makes the european agencies less costly, less distant from the people and closer to the needs and interests of the european citizens. for this reason, a postponement of the discharge is necessary. in a time of strong euroscepticism, a different approach to the investment of public money is needed, one that does not further fuel the feeling of mistrust of european citizens towards the european institutions and what they represent.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the discharge to be given to the sesar joint undertaking notes that the court's report contains too many general comments rather than concrete and specific ones and therefore calls for greater attention to be paid to the annual financial results. there are no material errors and the activity carried out by the company is considered to have been carried out in an adequate and appropriate manner. the aim is to encourage the joint undertaking and the implementing manager to work with the member states to increase the number and quality of projects proposed under the connecting europe facility (cef) transport programme. for the reasons i have mentioned and after a careful analysis of the document, i think i shall vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ given that the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to companies to run air traffic management research programmes, i believe that the motion for a resolution by mr marian-jean marinescu on the closure of the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 should be voted in favour, also in the light of the court of auditors' report.
in writing. ‒ the five star movement considers the local production fabric to be the main pillar of the italian and european economy. the european investment bank (eib) is the key instrument for implementing the union's programmes, including promoting youth employment, smes and innovation. unfortunately, we feel that little has been done in this respect. in this context, we called for more transparent governance and increased controls to prevent eib money from ending up in the hands of organised crime. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank aims to provide financial support for projects that contribute to strengthening european integration, creating jobs and ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion, alongside the balanced development of the internal market. i voted in favour of the pirinski report on the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank because i believe the document presented by the eib for 2014 is timely and i share the efforts of this institution to increase investment within the eu. the increasing social and economic disparities between regions and member states of the union have been a constant in the european framework since 2008, a problem that can only be solved through massive investment in the real economy. in 2014, the eib committed itself to this, financing 285 000 smes and thus safeguarding 3,6 million jobs. the key work carried out by the eib in recent years has been combined with an overall picture of both continued uncertainty on the financial markets and an increase in the volume of operations promoted by the bank itself. in this context, i welcome parliament's call for the introduction of external prudential regulatory supervision of the eib.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the pirinski report analysing the work of the european investment bank for 2014. i believe that the eib's work is far from providing concrete aid and instruments to those who are suffering most from the economic crisis in europe: small and medium-sized enterprises. for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the work of the european investment bank (eib) should be aimed at generating investment that strengthens economic recovery and productive employment, and that it is important that it be accompanied by consistent support to member states to increase absorption capacity, where necessary, and by a constant commitment to avoid the risk of territorial fragmentation.
in writing. ‒ the eib plays a key role in promoting balanced economic development and healthy socio-territorial cohesion, while contributing to the strengthening of european integration. while the 2014 eib balance sheet is generally positive (just think that the eib financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3,6 million jobs), some criticisms deserve to be raised. in particular, the eib's action is often insufficient in providing technical support to smes and member states operating in economically disadvantaged contexts. the eib should also focus its lending more on environmental sustainability and the resulting job creation, with a particular focus on youth-related projects. i also hope that investment in the alpine strategy will be further promoted and that the eib will take more active external action in the mediterranean, which will improve the economic situation of the main countries of origin of migrants and thus help to reduce current migratory flows. finally, the eib should deepen its existing monitoring and transparency mechanisms, assess more closely the long-term impact of its investments and publish all available non-confidential documents.
in writing. ‒ the report is not sufficiently incisive in highlighting the opacity of the eib's activity, a potentially important instrument which is far from being a systemic aid to european smes. the detailed picture of the projects financed and the procedures used is lacking (the initiatives relating to major projects, including those in italy, are known), which prevents an evaluation of the choices made by the institute. it seems to us that the eib has remained focused almost exclusively on initiatives which are theoretically 'strategic' but which are not always useful to a wide range of potential beneficiaries, particularly those who are suffering the most from the effects of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on the european investment bank (eib) on the basis of the following considerations: - a renewed commitment is needed to the rewrite of a governance plan that strengthens it not only as a financial institution but also as a bank that is a source of knowledge and good practice; - the added value of the management of eu funds is its ability to address member states and economic actors to finance projects to accelerate recovery and increase productivity; - states must follow the basic rules of sound financial management and achieve the eu's strategic objectives; - the ultimate objective of a uniform growth of the member states through uniform access to forms of financing must be promoted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2014 annual report on the activities of the european investment bank. the report does not take into account that the eib should develop stricter rules on conflicts of interest and should enhance its due diligence activities in order to improve the quality of information on final beneficiaries and to prevent more effectively transactions with financial intermediaries with a negative track record in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering and harmful social impacts.
in writing. ‒ i have analysed this report and have seen how the resources allocated to the eib have been used, firstly, with absolute transparency and, secondly, with the intention of pursuing the purpose for which the eib itself was created, namely to invest in europe to accelerate recovery and increase productivity. i have noted this and also taken into account the important financial support that the european investment bank represents for the whole of the union, and i could only express my support.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank and its financing instruments continue to be a key element in the strategy to boost investment in the european dimension. the committee on regional development welcomed the increase in eib group lending, particularly in the light of the effects of the economic crisis on traditional credit systems, which have led to a lack of investment, particularly for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (msmes). the eib's role in managing the efsi also increases its potential and strategic relevance for the future. as the regi committee, we would like to stress that it will be crucial to continue contributing to territorial cohesion, through coherence and complementarity between the efsi and other eu policies, in particular the esi funds. all financial instruments should be used taking into account the territorial dimension, including through a constant dialogue with the managing authorities of operational programmes, in order to create synergies for the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. in this respect, the eib must strengthen its cooperation with local and regional authorities to ensure that financial instruments are successfully used for territorial development and for cohesion policy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ there are still areas of shadow in the eib's work. starting from the leverage effect on investment, as there is a lack of precise and transparent data. in addition, according to media reports, the efsi will also be financed by china, which, incidentally, is being unfortunately given the status of a market economy, with deleterious effects in europe. the eib also supports a large number of credit lines for banks: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to help smes. what financial instruments? will we not again be faced with big finance draining oxygen from the real economy? moreover, as long as the eib supports projects such as tap, incinerators, regasifiers, oil refineries, nuclear and coal-fired power plants, there will be no circular economy or paradigm shift with a real transition from fossil to renewables. there will be no benefits for citizens, the environment and smes, because today the lobbies of fossil fuels, of useless and harmful mega-infrastructures and of finance continue to be considered privileged recipients. for this reason, my vote will be negative in relation to the eib's annual report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because the european investment bank's activity has not been in line with expectations, and it does not present a detailed picture of the projects financed and the procedures used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's 2014 annual report on the eib's activities because in these years of crisis, despite a capital that was not adequate to its ambitions and its role as an investment catalyst, it has played a key role, particularly in the countries of southern europe. in these regions, the eib helped finance major infrastructure projects, which subsequently led to further investment, creating a virtuous circle for these regions, for economic operators and, in particular, for smes, because of the central role they play in terms of growth and job creation. the eib's role is very important in bridging the investment gap, which is 15% of the pre-crisis level. public and private investment is key to generating robust and sustainable growth that strengthens europe's position in global competition. this is even more so after the entry into force of the efsi, together with the national platforms, in the case of italy the cassa depositi e prestiti, and the national investment banks. i very much share the ep's call for greater transparency in the work with intermediaries, to prevent this lack of transparency from being a source of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the eib provides financial support for projects in the union's interest which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, and thus to the strengthening of european integration, as well as to employment, which is extremely important for boosting the union's competitiveness. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs, and awarded contracts for a total of 413 projects across the eu, worth €69 billion. efforts are needed to make it easier to access eib financing, but above all to improve information strategies to ensure that everyone has access to these financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i have examined the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank (eib), which aims to provide financial support for projects that contribute to the economic and social development of the union and to the advancement of european integration. the document, which i supported in the chamber, analyses the eib's achievements in 2014 and highlights the scope for further refinement in order to have a greater impact on the economic and employment situation in the eu. among the various elements highlighted in the report, i would mention the establishment of essential guidelines for the management of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which is of primary importance in view of the economic recovery and development in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank (eib) - annual report 2014. the main task of the eib, the eu's bank, is to provide financial support for projects of interest to the union, which facilitate the financing of projects in all sectors of the economy that contribute to the development of the internal market and to the strengthening of european integration. the eib is strongly encouraged to continue its efforts to grow and sustain the level of investment in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank provides finance for projects that contribute to the achievement of eu objectives, both inside and outside the union. i voted in favour of the eib's annual report and wished it to continue its efforts to increase the level of investment in the eu, thereby accelerating economic recovery and productive employment.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european investment bank has as its priority objective to provide financial support for projects which contribute, in the full interest of the european union, to the balanced development of the market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion; that the latest challenges facing the eu, such as the financial crisis before and the migrant crisis now, require a redefinition of the eib's role in investment; i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that, in order to achieve a balanced development of the internal market and social, economic and territorial cohesion, the eib should be encouraged to focus on investments in the real economy in order to stimulate job creation. in view of the alarmingly high unemployment figures, the eib must substantially step up its financial assistance to the public and private sectors in the various member states if it is to start generating growth again. approval of project financing must be based on careful analysis of the financial sustainability and the added value to the european economy of each project. in the field of economic and social cohesion, the importance of taking account of the different economic recovery times of the member states is emphasised, so that the eib's public policy objectives are set in a manner consistent with the changing economic environment. i also believe it is essential that the eib strengthens its climate action in europe's major economies and in the new member states by allocating by 2020 30% of total climate investment to them.
in writing. ‒ in response to the crisis, the eib has implemented an anti-cyclical policy in contrast to its normal pro-cyclical approach. this was made possible by the member states' decision to strengthen the capital held by the eib by making available eur 10 billion. this will enable the eib to increase lending in the coming years to help restart economic growth and create new jobs in europe. the pilot project will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the eib can continue to play a leading role in the recovery of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with the epp group, in order to encourage the european investment bank not to deviate from its current line and, if necessary, to make greater efforts to increase investment in the euro area. this is necessary if the economic and employment recovery is to continue. in this context, the eib's investment programmes must become a priority, both in the internal and external policy fields. europe's relationship with third countries is the key to addressing the long-term challenges of migration crises. the new european fund for strategic investments is a useful instrument in support of eib investments, and parliament calls for the eib to be monitored so that it acts in addition to the eib.
in writing. ‒ the eib's main task would be to provide financial support in the union's interest: in 2014, turkey financed 285 000 smes and awarded contracts for a total of 413 projects within the eu (worth €69 billion) and 92 new extra-eu projects (worth €7.98 billion). in addition, in the same year, the eif committed €3.3 billion in equity investments and guarantees for small businesses. unfortunately, the eib still has some serious weaknesses: stricter rules on conflicts of interest and enhanced control activities by the authority are needed to improve information on final recipients and to prevent more effectively transactions with intermediaries with a negative track record in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering, adverse social and environmental impacts or registered in offshore financial centres or tax havens that use aggressive tax planning practices. the eib is also a major investor in the european union, with a strong presence in the european union's financial markets. for these reasons i preferred to vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the repeated and numerous attacks on hospitals and schools are emblematic of the humanitarian crisis we are facing. given the difficult work that humanitarian workers and ngo volunteers carry out on a daily basis in situations of crisis and hardship, it is a responsible act to prepare a response to this blatant violation of human rights. although the text of the resolution presented was already well structured and complete, we included some provisions on the arms embargo against those countries which have been guilty of violations of humanitarian law. i am aware of the importance of prompt and effective action, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ recent conflicts in different parts of the world, such as yemen, syria and afghanistan, have seen a growing trend, manifested in a series of attacks on hospitals and schools. this is a worrying phenomenon, inextricably linked to the rise of terrorist groups and other non-state actors who show no respect for humanitarian law, not only in warfare. the statute of the international criminal court classifies these attacks against humanitarian workers and health or school buildings as war crimes. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled in parliament today because i believe it is essential that the european union sends a strong signal in the face of these events. it is necessary for it to promote the global push for respect for, implementation of and promotion of international rules on armed conflict, promoting together with the united nations appropriate campaigns to make actors involved in the conflict aware of their obligations under international law. member states must commit themselves to ratifying all the main instruments of international humanitarian law and, in particular, to increasing funding for humanitarian and development aid.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the attacks on sensitive targets such as hospitals and schools which we continually read about in the news; i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the increasing number of attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts, in all parts of the world, is a real tragedy. i therefore believe it is important that the european union should make its voice heard and use its international influence and all the other means at its disposal to prevent a repetition of such events.
in writing. ‒ this joint compromise resolution condemns attacks on sensitive civilian targets such as schools and hospitals. it rightly calls for the observance of the laws of international law and for the utmost protection of minors and the sick. the resolution is certainly not enlightening or has any possible pragmatic effects, but we suggest a vote in favour of condemning such cruel actions and behaviour as the use or targeting of schools and hospitals. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law, because the bombing of conflict areas continues unabated and often not only helpless civilians are hit, but also humanitarian workers. such air strikes are flagrant and serious violations of international law. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is currently being threatened by the syrian regime. so far this year, 15 attacks have been reported on hospitals and medical facilities in syria alone, while amnesty estimates that 336 medical centers have been attacked since the conflict began in 2011. attacks on schools and hospitals are crimes against humanity. europe must make its voice heard and its political weight felt if this barbarity is to end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by which the european parliament addresses the issue of the very serious attacks on schools and hospitals in the context of armed conflicts that have taken place in recent years. the resolution expresses a strong position on the serious violation of the norms of humanitarian law and the commission of war crimes. the amendments proposed by our delegation also include a paragraph calling for an arms embargo against countries guilty of such violations and denouncing the continued issuing of licences for the sale of arms to these countries as a breach of common position 2008/944/cfsp adopted by the council in december 2008.
in writing. - we are living in a worrying historical period, because of armed conflicts in the world. the international community has witnessed a frightening trend in recent years of attacks on the community, and as recent events prove, also on hospitals and schools. i think it is the duty of europe to take a clear political stance in the face of this abomination which is now, more and more frequently, challenging the application of international humanitarian law. i voted in favour of this resolution not only because it goes in this direction, clarifying the political position of the european union in relation to these attacks on humanity, but also because it seeks to promote respect for humanitarian law, a political manifesto shared throughout the world, so that there will soon be a global response to the problem.
in writing. ‒ in recent years we have seen a proliferation of attacks on schools and hospitals in war zones, and the cost is, as always, borne by civilians, patients, students, medical staff and teachers. i express my deep concern at the attacks on facilities such as hospitals and schools which are now occurring at an alarming rate. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a full role in the fight against terrorism. the member states and all the european institutions must recognise the true scale of this emergency in order to adopt policies capable of stopping violations of international humanitarian law. the resolution is well made. we have succeeded in improving the text under negotiation by adding a paragraph calling for an embargo against countries that violate humanitarian law and denouncing the release of arms that is taking place in too irresponsible a way. it is essential that school and hospital facilities be protected and safeguarded as specified in the resolution and that there be genuine accountability for the crimes committed. i think that the resolution is a good document and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, there has been an increase in very serious bombings in afghanistan, yemen and syria, involving schools and hospitals. attacks of this kind are to be considered war crimes. m5s strongly supports the proposal for an arms embargo against countries that violate humanitarian law and reiterates that the continued licensing of arms sales to these countries constitutes a violation of council common position 2008/944/cfsp of 8 december 2008. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution condemning attacks on sensitive civilian targets such as schools and hospitals and protecting minors and the sick.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's joint resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law, because in recent years the tendency to attack hospitals and schools in countries affected by armed conflict has increased. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not crossed by any illegal immigrants. the ep strongly condemned these attacks and the use of hospitals and schools as prime targets by opposing factions, as they were prohibited by international humanitarian law and considered by it to be a violation. the ep called for the international community to have an adequate institutional space to address common concerns on the implementation of international humanitarian law, for it to be strengthened in the future through an effective mechanism, for the monitoring of the commitments that eu member states will make at the conference, and for the vp/hr for foreign policy to include a dedicated section on human rights in the council's annual report and to report to the ep.
in writing. ‒ the current humanitarian system's room for manoeuvre appears to be seriously compromised; attacks on hospitals and schools in theatres of war are leading to a progressive erosion of international human rights and humanitarian law, preventing the proper management of crises despite the reality that action is urgently needed. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need for a strengthened institutional space in which the international community can use all the instruments at its disposal to address the critical issues of the implementation of humanitarian law and to put in place the necessary political foundations to end existing conflicts and prevent future ones. attacking places which should remain neutral ground because of the delicate work they do is of unprecedented gravity, and therefore fact-finding missions or commissions of inquiry must be set up in accordance with international law, because the parties involved bear responsibility for the crimes committed. the right to health is a fundamental human right and we cannot therefore allow it to be denied. the european union and the un security council must set work indicators and a specific methodology and ensure accountability assessments for the affected populations and operators.
in writing. ‒ hospitals and medical staff are specifically protected by international humanitarian law. the buildings and property of the united nations, including schools and health centres, are inviolable and protected in accordance with the united nations convention on privileges and immunities of 1946. for this reason, any attack on hospitals and schools is to be considered as a serious violation of international humanitarian law (ihl). i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i hope that the safeguarding of health and education facilities during situations of armed conflict can also be ensured through transparent and independent investigations which bring to justice all those who have been responsible for attacks against these places.
in writing. ‒ the creation of an interinstitutional policy more geared to the citizen, as well as the transparency of procedures, should be a priority for the eu. greater participation of citizens in european activities and decision-making processes would undoubtedly help to reduce the general feeling of mistrust and alienation towards the institutions. public access to documents, a mandatory lobby register and transparency of trilogues are just some of the proposals put forward in an attempt to make european policies ever more transparent and clear, fully implementing the principles of direct democracy. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the ferrara report on public access to documents for 2014-2015. this is an important text which sets out a general framework for access to documents produced by the european institutions during the two years under review. while the right of access to documents is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaties, there are still too many obstacles to ensuring full access for citizens to know and control the work of their representatives, the decision-making processes and the way public funds are allocated and spent. the most important request, presented in the report, remains for the eu institutions and bodies to appoint, within their management structures, a transparency officer responsible for compliance and improvement of practices.
in writing. ‒ mrs ferrara's report is acceptable and balanced. i believe it is important to ensure that the working documents of the eu institutions are as open and accessible as possible to the public, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is important for the transparency and democratic functioning of the european union that the widest possible public access to documents produced by the european institutions and agencies, including those from 2014-2015, is guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ transparent institutions and decision-making processes are essential to enhance the trust of european citizens in the eu and to make them more involved and aware of their rights and duties. in this context, the right of access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights, the treaties and implemented in particular by regulation 1049/2001. although the process of increasing the transparency of the work of the european institutions has been under way for some time and is gradually leading to a significant improvement in the environment, it still presents several criticisms. citizens often do not have satisfactory access to many working documents, which creates the perception of an opaque decision-making process and reduces the effective capacity of citizens to exercise sound democratic control over the work of the institutions. in this context, i believe that citizens should be able to monitor more closely the actions of their representatives and the european institutions. i therefore support the development of a common approach between the institutions to facilitate full access for european citizens to the main working documents and to promote greater transparency in the trilogue negotiations and in the negotiations of the international agreements under discussion.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is characterised by its strong emphasis on the issue of transparency and the accessibility of the working documents of the eu institutions to citizens. it is certainly not a controversial report and i can support it.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents for 2014-15, as i believe that creating added value in the administrative and legislative procedures of individual member states and the community institutions is not only a matter of prudent political activity but also, and in these times especially, of the implementation of democratic sharing processes. it should be stressed that the right of access, protected by the charter of fundamental rights and vigorously defended by the constant case law of the court of justice and the national courts, is a fundamental right that has been severely tested by the lack of a harmonised body of rules on the aspects of access, privacy, correct and timely information to citizens, classification of confidential documents. the same is felt to be urgently needed for trilogue procedures, for amendments in plenary, for contact with lobbies, for delegated acts, which violate the principle of representative democracy if they are not fully shared and accessible.
in writing. ‒ the report by our five star colleague laura ferrara concerns the european parliament's annual initiative on public access to documents of the institutions by citizens and the level of transparency offered to them. this is a report that is certainly to be shared, and it raises some important points about the lack of transparency in the institutions. in this document we call for the creation of an effective interinstitutional policy geared to the citizen and based on full transparency, communication and direct democracy. other demands include the establishment of a mandatory register of lobbies for all the institutions and greater transparency in the legislative process, with particular reference to the trilogue phase. i voted for the report with great pride and conviction.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in order to close the gap between the european institutions and the citizens of the union, it is necessary to increase the transparency of the various political actions, not only in the interests of the community but also to exercise effective forms of control over the work of the institutions themselves. having said that, and having seen how the report we voted on is moving in that direction, it was easy for me to vote in favour. it was an important vote because this report, in my view, seeks to strike the right balance between the principle of transparency on the one hand and the efficiency and effectiveness of the european institutions on the other.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution urges the european institutions to take measures to increase their transparency towards the public. full institutional transparency is the basis for citizens' trust in the eu institutions and contributes to awareness of rights under the european legal order and to awareness of the eu decision-making process. in voting in favour of the resolution i intend to support the call for greater transparency of the activities of the european institutions vis-à-vis the public, particularly in relation to specific sectors. i am thinking, for example, of trilogue negotiations, that is, the negotiating phase between the co-legislators, in which the european parliament, the commission and the council of the eu try to reach consensus on a particular legislative proposal. this stage in the legislative procedure is not open to the public, much less the documents which are discussed. i also believe that greater transparency should be ensured in the european administrative process, in the communication channels of the european central bank and in the procedures for suspension and infringement initiated against member states.
in writing. ‒ an important first signature report by the m5s on a key issue such as public access to documents of the european institutions. the report calls for an early review of regulation 1049/2001, which is currently blocked in the council, the introduction of a mandatory register of lobbyists for all the institutions, greater transparency in the legislative process, particularly in relation to trilogues between parliament, the commission and the council and the negotiations on international agreements, but also greater transparency on infringement procedures and the structural funds. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. m5s strongly believes that transparency and participation are core values that must be fully realised in order to radically change the way politics is done and achieve direct democracy. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ access to information held by the eu institutions continues to be difficult for citizens, due to the lack of a common approach to the institutions aimed at facilitating access to documents and based on full transparency, communication and direct democracy. i voted in favour of public access to documents because i believe that we need to develop further a more proactive approach to transparency, making as many documents as possible available to the public in the simplest and easiest way. the eu should make full use of the potential of new technologies to ensure full and easy access to information
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the measure because i am in favour of greater transparency and accessibility of the working documents of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on public access to documents for 2014 and 2015 because i think this is an important issue given the general climate of mistrust of citizens in the eu. i share the call for greater transparency and publicity in the eu's legislative procedures, and in particular in the interinstitutional negotiations or trilogues, which are often held behind closed doors, without the possibility of consulting documents and without the members themselves being able to know the progress of the negotiations. i therefore agree with the request made by the socialist group to review regulation 1049/2001 on access to administrative documents by finding a common approach of the three institutions on this subject: i therefore welcome the idea of creating a single interface for consulting documents, in order to ensure transparency and publicity of the legislative process. finally, i welcome the call for a single register on lobbying, common to the three institutions, so that citizens and parliamentarians can exercise the necessary control over the work of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to express a favourable assessment of the subject of this report, because the eu institutions must be guided by representative democracy in their activities and policies and ensure that the principles of transparency, sharing and timely and appropriate information for citizens are respected. following the entry into force of the teu and the tfeu, the right of access to documents covers all eu institutions, bodies and agencies, which is why the same institutions cannot exempt themselves from providing the appropriate information to those who request it. it is therefore necessary to update regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 as a matter of urgency, with substantial amendments in the light of the provisions of the treaty and the relevant case-law of the court of justice of the eu and the european court of human rights, in order to provide for an approach allowing for easy access to documents.
in writing. ‒ considering that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union defines the right of access to documents as a fundamental right, that transparency is one of the founding principles of participatory democracy, and that many of the recommendations contained in the resolution on public access to documents in the period 2011-2013 have not been fully implemented by the european institutions, and that greater efforts are needed to bring them more closely into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty and with the protection of personal data, i considered it appropriate to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the right of access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties. transparency of the european institutions is the basis for citizens' trust in the eu and contributes to awareness of rights under the union's legal order and to awareness and knowledge of the eu's decision-making process. however, in ensuring transparency, the protection of certain sensitive data must be respected and the proper functioning of the decision-making process must not be undermined. there are several problematic and controversial points in the text. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this excellent report by the five star movement on public access to documents. the current context of secrecy and opacity in which public decisions are taken and the legislative process takes place means that the european institutions provide the greatest representation of major private interests and a privileged channel of access to confidential information and documents, while citizens and civil society are completely excluded. this report calls for putting citizens back at the centre of public decision-making, through public access to all documents relating to institutional activities and the legislative process in the eu, in line with the principles of direct democracy advanced by the movement. the citizens must be able to know who is representing the interests of the lobbies and who is representing the general interest, what the commission is doing in the ttip negotiations, what is said at ecb meetings, how decisions on banks are taken, what is happening inside the agencies, how the structural funds are managed, or on the basis of what scientific data the commission approves, for example, the granting of substances that are potentially dangerous to health. to get closer to the institutions, citizens need not more effective marketing of the 'eu' brand, but maximum transparency and the possibility of exercising effective control over decision-makers.
in writing. ‒ this annual own-initiative report by the european parliament concerns public access to the documents of the institutions and, ultimately, their level of transparency and the possibility for citizens to exercise democratic scrutiny over the activities of the european institutions and the legislative process in particular. the report raises some important points about the lack of transparency in the institutions. calls in particular for the establishment of an effective interinstitutional policy geared towards the citizen and characterised by full transparency, communication and direct democracy; a rapid revision of regulation 1049/2001 which is still blocked in the council; the establishment of a mandatory lobby register for all institutions; enhanced transparency of the legislative process and of the negotiations on the conclusion of international agreements; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. a particularly controversial point concerns the transparency of trilogues, a crucial stage in the legislative process, which should be public, as should documents relating to the negotiations. i voted in favour of this report to put an end to off-limits meetings and to make european citizens fully involved in the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ domestic work is defined by the international labour organisation (ilo) as work done by an individual in or for one or more households. these types of work, although widespread, especially among women, do not yet enjoy a common regulation on occupational treatment. the report presented aims to address the precarious situation of the sector by proposing the professionalization of domestic and care work, in such a way as to guarantee the workers concerned protection and legal certainty. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal, believing that a clear regulation of the sector in all member states will put an end to the forms of discrimination, violence and abuse to which such individuals are often subject.
in writing. ‒ convention no 189 of the international labour organisation defines 'domestic worker' as any person with a working relationship with one or more households. although this is the only definition provided by an international organisation, it excludes a wide range of people engaged in parttime, occasional or sporadic work and care providers. the kuneva report, which i supported with my vote today, seeks to fill the gaps in this definition by bringing to the attention of the european legislator a condition which in 2010 affected over 52 million people worldwide, the vast majority of whom were women. the text voted by parliament today addresses the various risk aspects of the conditions of these workers, including the risk of harassment, the existence of illegal relationships and, in particular, the lack of cover in the field of labour law. according to the ilo, 29.9% of domestic workers are in fact completely excluded from national labour legislation. the commission should propose a legislative initiative to define common rules on domestic and care work in the eu, pushing states to include domestic and care workers in national labour laws and fighting underemployment.
in writing. ‒ the kuneva report contains controversial and critical elements which have led me not to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ domestic and care work is playing an increasingly important role in ensuring the well-being of a constantly ageing european population, which is facing a contemporary context of major economic difficulties and the burden of continuous and drastic austerity policies. despite its increasingly central role in our societies, this is a sector which nevertheless has to deal with a number of extremely insidious problems: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the situation is even more alarming when one considers that exploitation situations are often not reported, as in most cases the workers (mostly migrant women) do not know the language of the country in which they live, are not aware of their rights or are in an irregular situation. in order to respond to this difficult situation, i wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution in question, which calls for the introduction of new common rules to promote the professionalisation and recognition of the rights of workers in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the general line of recognising domestic and care work in national labour laws may be acceptable, but the report is not objective: focuses mainly on the discrimination against (and often irregular) immigrant women in domestic and care work. with regard to the employment of immigrant workers (a large part of the report) it is argued that the integration of migrants into the labour market is an important step towards social and cultural inclusion. the report also calls for the establishment of a european framework for the protection of workers from harmful organisms and for the establishment of a european framework for the protection of workers from harmful organisms. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu, because these are workers who benefit from an atypical employment relationship (no working hours and no holidays), which makes them invisible to the outside world and often allows employers to easily break labour laws. according to the european commission, there are 2.6 million people working as domestic helpers in europe, about 90% of whom are women. it is important to promote the professional recognition of the skills and qualifications of domestic workers and carers, in order to provide them with greater prospects for professional development. in short, we need to build a regulatory framework that allows for better working conditions, including the conclusion of regular contracts and the fight against precarious and submerged work.
in writing. ‒ the report suggests that the european parliament should take measures to tackle the precariousness of domestic work. there are no common standards in europe at present for the professional treatment of domestic workers and carers. it is therefore a recommendation which is entirely acceptable and for which i have voted in favour. the text has been particularly improved by the introduction of some of our proposals aimed at the professionalization of these categories of work, the protection of maternity and health, and the encouragement of indirect home care practices.
in writing. ‒ many, too many domestic workers and carers are forced to live in the shadows. according to the ilo, about 30% of these workers do not fully benefit from national labour legislation, with limited access to rights and social protection. the awareness of the need for these figures and the role they play in and for society is at odds with the lack of regulations that contribute to fostering undeclared work, creating social marginalization, precariousness and instability typical of undeclared work. and that is what is happening in several member states. in the face of rising unemployment and an ageing population, such jobs could be a choice of occupation rather than a replacement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of workers' rights. the time has come for action at both national and european level. we expect the commission to draw up soon a proposal for a directive laying down common rules for the recognition at european level of such workers and ensuring the professionalisation of such figures at both european and national level. i can only agree with the content of the report and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report when it stresses that the issue of domestic workers and carers is unfortunately first and foremost a matter of respect for people and, in this particular context, for the dignity of women. and i also agree, as the report points out, that unfortunately the political positions taken in the past on this matter are practically nil. but despite these elements, i have only been able to observe how, despite the sensitivity of the subject, these issues have been treated superficially with the sole purpose of laying a simple foundation for better legislation on the subject in the future. i believe that when it comes to human rights it is not right to act in an incomplete way and i also think that, given the cultural sensitivity inherent in the subject, the union should check the position of the member states before imposing itself as strongly as this report intends to do. i therefore agree with the arguments, but i am absolutely against the procedure, so i could only abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, although i believe that domestic and care work should be recognised in national legislation, this text is largely focused on the work of immigrant women and not on european women in general.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the basis that there is very much that can be done to improve the situation for domestic workers in the eu and specifically for women as they are, in many cases, the most affected. workers in the domestic sector face severe challenges as they often are not covered by national labour laws and even if that is the case, it is often hard to find the right information or to get help, legal or otherwise. the report suggests several solutions that i think can have a positive impact in our countries and for the individuals affected. these suggestions include expanding national labour and anti-discrimination laws to domestic workers, to tackle undeclared work and for the commission to adopt and duplicate the best practices from regions or member states to other regions or member states so we can use each other’s ideas and solutions.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the resolution on domestic workers and carers in the eu, because i have always been convinced of the need to implement sector-specific policies in a society that approaches the issue of ageing with particular urgency. demographic changes in europe are transforming our societies: the average age and life expectancy of citizens are increasing and the birth rate is falling sharply. in such a scenario, domestic helpers and carers provide an essential service that families can no longer afford to forgo. for this reason, the regulation of this new form of employment, which is actually more suitable as a type of underground work, cannot be postponed. the main providers of these services are women. in most cases, they do not have access to the protection of a normal worker and cannot enjoy rights in terms of wage-setting, pension contributions and other benefits provided for by labour law. it is therefore essential to implement effective labour policies at european and national level, taking account of the evolution of society and guaranteeing respect for the rights, access to social protection and a decent life for domestic workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the eib provides financial support for projects in the union's interest which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, and thus to the strengthening of european integration, and employment, are extremely important for boosting the union's competitiveness. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 smes, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs, and awarded contracts for a total of 413 projects across the eu, worth eur 69 billion. efforts must be made to make access to eib financing easier, but above all to improve information strategies to ensure that everyone can use these financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on domestic workers and carers in the eu. the report aims to give domestic workers and carers a community legal status. i consider this a particularly sensitive matter. there is certainly a need for action to protect domestic workers within the european union, but this action must be taken within the legislation of each individual member state and not at community level.
in writing. ‒ the protection of domestic workers is a subject that deserves particular attention from the institutions, as it is a sector that is not well regulated in many respects. i voted in favour of this report because i support the idea of a concrete commitment by the commission and the member states to work towards common european standards for domestic and care work. the first step is to draw up a regulatory framework which includes measures to professionalize these sectors so that all the protections provided for by labour law, such as wage fixing, the organization of working hours, weekly leave, maternity leave and other similar benefits, can be implemented. establishing a framework of legal relations between workers and employers, in accordance with the ilo convention no 189 on decent work for domestic workers, would simultaneously help to combat the proliferation of the shadow economy and the erosion of social security systems. specific measures are also needed to take into account the gender and rights of migrants and their placement in the labour market, as these are the groups of the population that perform the most domestic and care work.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the need to provide for adequate protection of domestic workers and carers in all national laws on labour, health and social welfare, as well as the possibility for domestic workers to join trade unions. this would discourage the illegal recruitment of carers and provide a career opportunity. the 'professionalisation' of domestic work could thus transform precarious and submerged female work into a recognised job, which would allow domestic workers and carers to enjoy adequate social rights. in addition, the majority of domestic workers and carers are immigrant women, many of whom are living in irregular conditions. therefore, their integration into the labour market would facilitate their social and cultural integration as well as compliance with immigration rules. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have, together with the ppe group, taken a different position from the other groups on this controversial report, which is difficult to accept as a whole, and i have therefore abstained on the amendments to the original text. the text dealt with the work of domestic workers and carers. this is a sensitive issue in terms of labour law as well as immigration. it is on these points that the final text called on the committee to take up problems which should instead be addressed by each member state according to its specific needs. the abstention was intended to demonstrate not opposition to the project of tackling these problems, but a disagreement on the proposed modalities.
in writing. ‒ the ict industry sector makes a significant contribution to the distribution of wealth and the improvement of knowledge across europe. digitalisation is having an impact on the labour market, not only by creating new employment opportunities, but also by creating more flexible working patterns, which are useful for reconciling work and private life, especially for women. it is estimated that facilitating the inclusion and entry of women into this sector would increase european gdp by around eur 9 billion a year. i therefore voted in favour, considering it essential to take action to promote the empowerment of women in fields such as technology and science, where unfortunately the female category is still very little represented.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the reintke report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. this is an important text that addresses the impact of digitisation and communication technologies not only on the economy but above all on society. although only 19% of it entrepreneurs are women today, the digital revolution can unlock their emancipatory potential by also encouraging their participation in democratic processes. the text voted today calls on the commission to make full use of the digital single market strategy and the digital agenda, with the aim of tackling the issue of the serious gender gap in ict. incentives are needed for companies to develop career paths that can enhance the visibility of women, but first of all, the promotion of digital literacy and the participation of women and girls in ict education and training must be ensured.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report is unbalanced and not acceptable, which is why i did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ while the development of digitalisation holds great potential for economic growth, improving our lives and empowering women, it also presents important pitfalls and distortions, particularly for women. this is an area where women are severely underrepresented (for example, only nine out of 100 developers in europe are women, and only 19% of managers and 20% of it graduates are women) and where shameful acts of online harassment and violence are often witnessed (as many as 18% of european women have experienced harassment from online acquaintances). in the light of these challenges, member states and the commission should support more initiatives to improve girls' digital and it skills as a key element in promoting their greater social and occupational inclusion. at the same time, new rules on sexism and violence against women need to be promoted, as well as female entrepreneurship and the reduction of gender pay gaps.
in writing. ‒ a demagogic and obvious relationship, with the usual demands to promote women's empowerment in all respects and gender equality also through the internet. the only point of agreement is the call for commitment to tackling online crime, which here refers only to harassment, bullying and digital violence in general, not enough to overcome the political biases that the report is full of. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age today, because there is still a gap for women in this field in europe. only nine out of 100 developers are women, only 19% of it and communications managers are women (compared to 45% in other services) and women represent only 19% of entrepreneurs compared to 54% in other services. yet digitalisation has a huge impact on the labour market as it changes value chains and creates new job opportunities and more flexible working patterns. europe and the member states need to make better use of the considerable potential offered by digitalisation at all levels of political participation by promoting the inclusion of women in decision-making processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which deals with the issue of women's digital empowerment. the text considers the ict sector as an important potential for women's growth both in terms of work and personal growth. the report also calls for investment and funding to promote female entrepreneurship and considers digitalisation as a tool to combat violence against women. finally, the text contains some of our proposals, such as direct democracy via the web, electronic voting for greater empowerment of women in politics and free internet, especially in public places.
in writing. ‒ the development of information technologies has changed our way of life, our habits, the way businesses produce and distribute. the digital age has also had a strong impact on the labour market by making it more flexible and the use of teleworking has allowed, especially for women, to combine work and family life. the positive effects on society and the economy are many and varied, but so are the dangers lurking in the net. i am thinking for example of channels and platforms that facilitate forms of sexual exploitation of women and children. i therefore believe that the development of digitalisation cannot be achieved without finding legislative measures to address the new forms of 'digital' violence, such as cyberbullying, which are recognised and defined in specific legislative proposals both at national and european level. tools and resources are needed to enable law enforcement authorities to effectively manage 'digital crimes': this is a challenge made even more complex by the anonymity of the web and the cross-border nature of online crime. the report also addresses these and other issues which i believe are essential if we want a secure digital world. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, aware of the enormous resource that the network represents, i believe that it should be used appropriately to promote very sensitive issues today, in this particular case gender equality. i think that digitisation is an opportunity that should not be wasted and through this report the european parliament has tried to direct this great resource towards a very important human and social objective: the protection of women. i particularly supported the european commission's efforts to come forward as soon as possible with a more pragmatic strategy against gender-based violence online, as i believe that given the nature of the problem, it needs to be tackled more directly. i think it is unacceptable that the vast potential of the internet is used more to harm than to protect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. on the one hand, digital technologies have a considerable potential for the dissemination of education and training which is fundamental for the empowerment of women; on the other hand, digital platforms and new information and communication technologies can facilitate forms of sexual exploitation of women. in my vote in favour of the resolution i urge the commission and the council to take measures to ensure gender equality, protection and empowerment of women in the digital age. i also believe that digitalisation can help to reduce the barriers to women's access to the labour market and i invite the commission to explore support and funding programmes to promote the integration of women in technology companies.
in writing. ‒ although international and community legislation has made considerable progress towards the goal of gender equality, a number of issues remain open, as the resolution underlines: the empowerment of women in the fields of work, education, information and communication technologies and in society and culture in general. i would like to remind you that gender equality between men and women is a fundamental human right (enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights in article 23) and one of the values on which the eu is founded. in this context, as the report highlights, i would urge the european union to prioritise gender diversity in its digital agenda so that the new digital age can drive towards gender equality. as the report highlights, i would like to call on the member states to promote equal participation of women in digital development in europe, to introduce multiannual action plans to promote the full knowledge of new information and communication technologies among women in education and training, and to promote employment and entrepreneurship for women through the use of the internet and digital services.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, despite some points of agreement, such as the fight against online crime, the rest of the text makes the usual calls for gender equality also via the internet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age because i see digitalisation as a new opportunity to participate in public debate, to inform oneself, to study, work and socialise. digitalisation has provided important opportunities towards social, cultural and economic inclusion and has been able to drive women towards greater independence and awareness of their rights. i share the call on the commission and the member states to promote digitalisation in policy to improve active participation and support direct democracy, and to continue to implement new technological tools to improve access to digital information. it is essential to note that access to information technology provides new job opportunities and more flexible conditions for women, who could use tools such as teleworking, for example, to better reconcile family and work needs. i hope that the gender gap in the ict sector, which is larger than in other sectors, will be narrowed and that women will be treated on an equal footing with male professionals in pay and in corporate decision-making processes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the data show that the relationship between women and the digital age has a potential that has not yet been fully exploited. in europe, only nine out of 100 developers are women, only 19% of it and communications managers are women (compared to 45% in other services) and women represent only 19% of entrepreneurs (compared to 54% in other services). that is why i particularly support the proposal to provide new funds for women entrepreneurs to set up ict and start-up businesses.
in writing. ‒ the role of women in our society is of fundamental importance. in recent years we have seen a marked improvement, although i think we need to work further in this direction. we have therefore voted in favour of a proposal which emphasises the empowerment of women in the digital age by bringing them closer to the various spheres of life. the proposal provides for the promotion of women's rights without discrimination in the areas of employment and politics; education and training; participation in funding and the fight against violence against women. the focus remains on digital information and ict, and as such tools are considered a necessity for advancing women's empowerment. i have therefore voted in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the digital age. the digital revolution has had and continues to have a profound impact on both markets and society as a whole, changing the way people socialise, work, study, access information and participate in political and public debate. this development also represents a great potential for the empowerment of women, creating new possibilities for interaction and commitment to the defence of women's rights and freedoms, contributing to the improvement of social and economic conditions in society and the competitiveness of the european union, and ensuring a balance between professional and private life.
in writing. ‒ the gender pay and representativeness gap in access to ict and it skills-related vocational and learning opportunities is higher than in other sectors. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that creating the conditions for the empowerment of women in the field of digitalisation, given its enormous social and economic potential, can help to bring about a new awareness of gender equality issues. in order to achieve a more inclusive digital society, member states need to integrate a gender perspective at all levels of learning, in order to ensure the education and training of women and girls in ict and other stem subjects; this is the first step in addressing the problem of underrepresentation in this area. the commission should also include this priority in the digital agenda and the digital single market strategy. the challenges, however, are not limited to specific interventions to support women's digital literacy. measures are also needed to protect women and children from online violence, which is not yet properly regulated in the criminal law and procedures of all member states.
in writing. ‒ the digital age has revolutionized the way people access information, communicate and socialise, study and work, shaping our society. the internet is now an essential tool for everyday life and this report considers digitalisation as an opportunity for many aspects of women's lives, both in the family and in the professional sphere. i therefore supported the provision for the eu to share best practice in promoting equal participation of women in digital development in europe.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of mrs reintke's proposal. it is clear that digitalisation has completely changed the way we access information today and should be seen as a basic service that every individual should be able to benefit from. in this case, i believe that access to the internet represents a great opportunity for women to promote their rights and to have their right to know protected in particular. i therefore believe that greater involvement of women in the computer industry is desirable. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ongoing digital revolution, which is changing every aspect of our lives, could make a major contribution to the empowerment of women. recent studies suggest that the appropriate use of technology could ensure that gender equality is achieved within the next 25 years. in developed economies, there is a greater gender balance in jobs, thanks to the increased digital skills acquired by women in recent years. i voted in favour of this report and i hope that we can achieve the full use of women's potential and talents to meet the demand for jobs and to include women in the ict sector, in order to stimulate the european economy and to promote employment opportunities for women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the whole five star movement i must point out the scandal involving mr renato soru of the socialist and democratic group and consequently this whole parliament. i appeal to rule 3 (6) (2) of the rules of procedure and annex 1 to the code of conduct for members. mr soru was sentenced to three years in prison for tax evasion, yet he still sits in the benches of this parliament and is still a full member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is the committee that decides on tax evasion and tax avoidance. so we have a gigantic conflict of interest with our mandate, which is to be honest and transparent. i ask you, mr president, to verify what i have said and to take action. i ask mr soru to resign immediately and mr pittella to clean up his own group, because that is an example that we italians would not like to set here in the european parliament. i ask you, mr president, to protect the honour of this house and this institution. don't let a convicted tax evader sit in these seats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of news coming in these days of european holidays from certain parts of europe where families, men, women and children are not exactly enjoying their holidays. they are guests of europe, but the news coming from a camp like idomeni is very worrying. there is talk of difficulties in the distribution of food, there is talk of intolerable health conditions. i believe that, precisely in order to honour the values to which you referred at the beginning of this sitting, an official visit by the european parliament to the refugee and asylum camp in greece is absolutely essential.
i would like to ask, on behalf of my group, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to put on the agenda a debate on the progress made by turkey in meeting the requirements for visa liberalisation, to be held on wednesday afternoon as the third item of the debate, postponing the closing of the debates to 24.00. the commission will propose such liberalization without having ensured that certain basic parameters are met. i think that two requirements must be given priority: the revision of the anti-terrorism laws and real progress on the cyprus question. the debate is all the more necessary after erdoğan's statements on friday. ankara will not revise anti-terrorism laws in exchange for visa liberalization. i would remind you that in turkey today journalists, academics and politicians who merely criticize the regime are being accused and imprisoned for terrorism. turkish travellers do not have to pay for their government's policies, but to liberalize visas today would be tantamount to giving in to an explicit blackmail. erdoğan is threatening to block the agreement on the return of refugees if visa liberalization does not pass.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on wednesday we shall be voting on important reports on innovative instruments and a motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. the late adoption of many 2014-2020 operational programmes and the complexity of the innovative cohesion policy instruments, namely iti (integrated territorial investment) and clld (participatory local development), implemented for the first time and by only a few member states, do not allow an analysis of the effectiveness and added value of the two instruments. but we must outline the challenges and possible criticalities right away. it is now clear to everyone that the bottom-up approach and the participation of local actors are essential. and they are essential for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. but we must be honest and say that local actors often lack the capacity to implement development strategies that affect their territory and that they therefore need adequate support both at national and european level. we cannot afford to accumulate delays on delays, the only cases being, in important cases, the operational programmes approved only six months ago. the commission shall present a road map indicating the states and operational programmes most at risk of automatic decommitment of resources. let us concentrate on the correct application of the late payment directive and the public procurement regulations, the first source of error in our cohesion policy, so that there is a real balance between simplification and preventive measures against errors and fraud, so as to prevent both the misuse of the many billions at our disposal and infiltration by organised crime. finally, we will never agree on the link introduced in this programming between the so-called sound economic governance and the structural funds. i'll give you an example of all of them. structural funds and structural reforms in my country are absolutely inconceivable, everything except participation, sharing and transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, under the current legal framework, territorial cohesion is complementary to the objectives of economic and social cohesion. the aim is to translate the objectives of balanced and sustainable development, which article 2 of the treaty assigns to the union, into action at the territorial level. among the regions concerned, special attention is paid to mountain regions, which have serious and permanent natural handicaps. it is necessary to ensure that these regions have the necessary resources, by ensuring that, in view of their geographical handicap, they are recognised as deserving of enhanced protection, which determines the conditions for privileged access to the economic resources (meaning financial subsidies in the form of grants) made available by cohesion policy. the commission notes that the efsi is a financial instrument that is not subject to any specific authorisation by the member states. in the future, parliament must - and i am sure it will - promote this initiative, which comes from the territories, and which means that we must ensure that resources and opportunities are distributed in an appropriate way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank our three rapporteurs for the work they have done. in recent years, despite what we have heard from some of our colleagues here, cohesion policy has proved to be one of the most important investment instruments of the european union. it has offered opportunities to citizens, businesses and local authorities to converge towards the economies of other countries (and this has been successful), but also to emerge from the crisis and to boost growth. it must remain one of the pillars of the european integration process. i should like to speak specifically about the mountain regions: it is clear that special attention is needed in view of the particularities of these territories. the development of mountain areas can also be achieved by using the instruments we have discussed and will be decisive in allowing the harmonious development of areas with different but integrated characteristics. i would like to tell the commissioner, as chairman of the mountain intergroup, that we are campaigning for a european agenda for rural and mountain areas, and i think we will have the opportunity to speak to him about this very soon. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. - of course you are. i think you know that the single market favours the richest countries and cohesion policy is exactly the instrument which enables the regions of the poorer countries to converge towards similar income levels and to be able to compete with the stronger countries. without cohesion policy, it would be impossible to have a single market that is not totally detrimental to the poorest countries in the union. of course, some people may not be interested, but i believe that this is one of the fundamental goals of our being together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dialogue between parliament and the commission is essential at a time when the basis is being laid for the revision of cohesion policies and when the regional policy is being discussed. i am sure that parliament will be heard, and i am glad of that, because the links between members of parliament and the territories that elected them are very close. and it is often on us that administrators take out their frustrations at the inability or impossibility of using the instruments of cohesion policy, which also for them now, at this moment, represent survival. what is not working or has not worked in cohesion policy is being told by the local authorities themselves, who are suffocated by the stability pact. they cannot find the resources for cofinancing and at the same time respect the budgetary constraints. flexibility is the key to accelerating cohesion policy and to an economy which needs investment for growth and development that produces jobs first and foremost, and we must never forget this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with a budget of over 350 billion euros, the european union's cohesion policy is the main source of public investment in some member states. the objectives of strengthening growth and employment are achieved through a coherent interaction within the framework of the different economic policies of the european union. youth unemployment is undoubtedly the most pressing problem among member states. cohesion policy, and in particular local and territorial development strategies, must tackle this problem as a matter of priority and with innovative instruments. member states should use cohesion policy financial instruments for projects aimed at creating opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises and fostering investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment, as well as contributing to poverty reduction and promoting social inclusion. finally, it is essential to give greater emphasis to participatory local development instruments and integrated territorial investments in order to allow a bottom-up approach to cohesion policies through the participation of local actors.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is my pleasure to be here to address with honourable members the issue of the nord stream 2 project and the impact it may have on central and eastern european member states. nord stream 2 is a subject of huge concern for many members in this house, but also for member states and in particular for the central and eastern european member states, as was reflected in the letter of nine prime ministers and leaders addressed to president juncker on 17 march. the concerns are of various natures, be they legal, geopolitical or economic. as regards the legal aspect, let me reiterate what we stated in this house some weeks ago. if built, nord stream 2 will have to fully comply, just like any other infrastructure project, with applicable european union law, including on energy and environment. the construction of such an important infrastructure project as nord stream 2 cannot happen in a legal void. this would also run counter to the interests of economic operators in having legal certainty. nor can it be exclusively operated only according to russian law. against the background of colliding legal regimes, nord stream 2, if built, has to be operated under a legal framework which also takes due account of the key principles of our energy market rules. while respect for these legal principles is in our view a necessary precondition, we also recognise that for the central and eastern european member states the issues of the impact on the security of supply of the region and on the central and eastern european gas market are of particular importance. let me remind you that most of the central and eastern european gas market remains highly dependent on a dominant gas supplier, namely gazprom, as well as on a limited number of transport corridors. in the last few years, the commission’s most important objective with regard to the central and eastern european member states has been to foster progress in making the gas market more secure, competitive and diversified, thanks to the european union’s internal energy market infrastructure, development and competition enforcement. in this context, let me mention the commission’s energy security strategy of may 2014, supported by european union member states and this parliament, and the security of supply package originally proposed, with legislative proposals aimed at improving the security of supply of the european union and in particular the more vulnerable regions. regarding infrastructure development, the commission has provided strong support to the central and eastern european member states in terms of improving their connectivity across markets through regional groupings such as bemip and cesec, improving access to lng through building of new lng terminals in lithuania and poland, while another important terminal is planned in croatia, and promoting the development of liquid gas haps not only in the mediterranean, but also in bulgaria. we will continue our efforts together with member states to ensure that other key diversification projects are also completed in the coming years. nord stream 2 will, due to its route, alter the landscape of the european union’s gas markets, and we will have to carefully assess its impact on our own priorities in terms of security of supply, diversification and creation of competitive gas markets, including in central and eastern europe. clearly, nord stream 2 will not give access to a new source of supply or of a supplier and further increase excess capacity from russia to the european union. as regards transit rules, nord stream 2 could lead to gas transportation corridors being decreased from three to at least two – abandoning the route through ukraine – and the german route via poland could also be in danger. such a reduction of routes would not improve security of supply. regarding the market impact of the nord stream 2 project, we are carefully analysing what impact it can have on competition on our gas markets, including in central and eastern europe. we have made a lot of progress in implementing the third energy package across europe and we have to make sure that no market operator is able to leverage its dominant position to the detriment of consumers. let me say at the end of my statement a few words on ukraine. despite economic and political challenges, ukraine continues to be a reliable gas partner and transit country. it is in the interests of all parties, including and notably the central and eastern european countries, that ukraine remains a significant gas transit corridor. the successful implementation of the gas winter package, with the constructive engagement of both russia and ukraine and facilitated by the commission, has helped to secure domestic consumption in ukraine and contributed to a smooth transit in supply of russian gas to the european union. the commission stands ready to continue this successfully proven format and to enlarge the trilateral talks to the negotiation of a new transit contract with russia and ukraine as the current one comes to an end in 2019.
i am in favour of the creation of energy infrastructure such as the strengthening of external supplies and the identification of solutions to expand energy supplies so as to better modulate supply and costs in europe. there is no doubt that we need more instruments, more infrastructure, to respond more flexibly to changes in the energy market and consumption. however, it seems clear to me - and i share what we have heard from president buzek - that the project to double the nord stream gas pipeline does not go in this direction and represents a step backwards compared to the ambitions for the coordination of energy policies that the european commission outlined just a few months ago, in february 2015, in its communication on the energy union, and that this parliament amended and endorsed with the resolution of 15 december. what are the elements? firstly, nord stream increases energy dependence on a single supplier, namely the russian gas giant gazprom, and creates the conditions for the exercise of a dominant market position. at this stage, there is no need to double nord stream, as the current nord stream 1 is operating below capacity. furthermore, nord stream 2 involves almost exclusively players from a single member state. in other words, it is a project for the use and consumption of certain national interests only and not for the general interests of the european union. finally, it is a vulnus in the definition of the future european energy architecture because it is a precedent, according to which a member state has completely free hands in deciding the energy strategy which must involve all european countries. we are therefore opposed to it not for ideological reasons but for reasons connected with a specific policy which europe has adopted.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i will not repeat things to you that you know very well. the data concerning this project have been in your possession for some time and you have also commented on them very explicitly. anyone in europe and the world who has any familiarity with energy and the european union is smiling at the development of this project, because if we were to sit down and try to create an example of a school that could contradict all the objectives that the european union is setting itself in the field of energy, we would not find a suitable example like this. so the first theme is: we are doing the european union a great honour and we are not proving ourselves to be so contradictory. secondly: we are aware that if such a project were to be carried out, there would be a whole section of europe which would not be able to benefit from the gas that will be coming to europe from russia through this pipeline, because there are not enough connections. so it is politically stupid and economically stupid, so help us not to make a fool of ourselves and block this project with us.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their contributions to this debate that have enlightened the views of the commission on this very difficult issue. let me say from the very beginning that i heard some honourable members stressing that we were discussing gas too much and we should concentrate on other sources of energy. it is clear that after the paris agreement on climate change, we are on a path of decarbonising our economies and developing renewables and energy efficiency, but it is also clear that it will take some time. in the meanwhile the cleanest fossil fuel is gas and we have to ensure security of supply for the 28 member states of the european union – not for a single member state but for the 28 member states of the european union. that is why the commission is implementing a security of supply policy, trying to diversify sources, suppliers and routes. that is why we have come along with an lng gas strategy on one side and that is why we are developing interconnectors in central and south-eastern europe, that is why we have implemented reverse flows and that is why the commission is supporting the southern corridor, which is another alternative source of supply. so the commission will keep on applying these policies which are the ones needed to assure security supply all over the european union. there were two specific clear questions. one was by mr hökmark who asked whether this project would make us more or less dependent on russian gas. the answer is very clear, and you know it already, because we speak of about 100 bcm going through a single corridor. that would mean 26% of all european union gas consumption and 80% of russian gas imports on a single route. the answer is very clear. due to the size, the route and the strategic character, it would probably change the architecture of today’s european gas market and further increase the dominance of gazprom in the western european gas market. the european union has made a lot of progress in opening up and integrating energy markets. that is why the european union should therefore make sure that no market operator is able to leverage its dominant position to the detriment of competitors and consumers. so it is clear that this may change. it is also clear that we have to review those changes and apply european laws. european laws must be applied in all aspects. i come back to mr buzek’s questions. he asked whether we were in contact with the german authorities. i can say that, following the mandate of the european council, we have made contact with the german authorities on all levels and my services are in contact with the german regulators to have a complete picture of all the facts needed to assess the project. this is a complex project – it has an onshore part which touches the waters of five different member states – and is difficult to evaluate. but what i can say is that in the commission we are convinced that european union law needs to be applied, including the principles of energy law, which also need to be applied in the case of the offshore part. we will continue our discussions with the german authorities on what this entails in practice. but beyond the application of the legal framework this project has very clear geopolitical consequences and all the members who have intervened have pointed out those consequences. thus this also needs to be discussed at a political level and that is why both vice—president šefčovič and i have explained exactly the same political concerns to the german government on several occasions. what i can say in conclusion is that we all agree that energy produced in the european union must be fully aligned with european union core policy objectives, including energy security. we cannot look in an isolated way at infrastructure projects. we have to find comprehensive and well—balanced solutions which benefit all member states alike, as well as our neighbours. so the commission will take very seriously the remarks of the honourable members. we will continue monitoring this process and applying european union legislation. there was another question at the end on whether we have the opinion of the united states. we have the opinion, we hear the honourable members, but i must say that just last wednesday we had the energy council with the united states and we also discussed this topic, because it is a problem of geopolitical importance and is worth discussing in our bilateral relations with the united states.
in writing. the nord stream 2 project, operated by the russian gas company gazprom, runs counter to the objectives of the energy union and undermines solidarity between member states. at the moment this project is not necessary as nord stream 1 is operating below its capacity. with nord stream 2, the russian giant gazprom would have virtually full control of a significant part of the gas distribution and storage system in central europe, by gaining shares of fields in the north sea and bypassing or cutting out not only ukraine, but several countries in central and eastern europe. there are also legal and environmental concerns. the project is not economically justified and would have negative consequences for the marine environment of the baltic sea. furthermore, nord stream 2 operates only on the basis of russian laws and does not comply with european energy and environmental standards. i therefore ask the commission to put an end to the nord stream 2 project as soon as possible and to concentrate on south stream which is the real long-term solution to ensure energy supplies to european citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a huge variety of fish species is consumed in the european union, and more than 65% of them are imported. so there is a need and a demand from consumers to have more information about these species, and they have to find it on the fish labelling. it's about having access to clear, honest and comprehensive information about the food they buy. the replacement of one species by another is not only an economic fraud but also an environmental problem, since it allows endangered or illegally fished species to enter the market, and this of course also poses a risk to the health of consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our policy choices must be directed towards a clear objective of achieving traceability that helps prevent false or incomplete labelling and keeps illegally caught fish out of the market, while providing more information to consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some examples already exist. at the same time, we also support the idea of a european ecolabel for fishery and aquaculture products, but with clear and shared criteria, as 38% of those who took part in the commission's consultation think that there are already too many ecolabels and almost a third think that the existing ones cannot be trusted.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the oceana study is certainly partial, but it is nevertheless disturbing, and it is disturbing insofar as it gives a picture of how consumers have been deceived or are being deceived in a city like brussels, which is the symbol of the european union. we have spoken of the importance of informing consumers in all places, and we have long insisted on the need to disseminate clear and precise information on the origin of food products, because responsible and conscious consumption is a political and social choice which all citizens have the right to exercise. despite all these instances, we often find ourselves at the starting point. it is not acceptable that food fraud continues, but it is also not acceptable that very important information is sometimes omitted. and this is what happens: i think of the case of the squid that's been bleached with hydrogen peroxide to make them more attractive, without the consumer knowing. of course, consumer education is also essential, but the two must go hand in hand. with this resolution we reaffirm the need to trace products, in this case fish, from their origin to the moment they reach our tables.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, recent studies have revealed alarming cases of errors in the labelling of fish served in restaurants, resulting in misleading information being given to consumers. this comes at a particular moment in history when the availability of fish within the european union is decreasing while consumption is increasing. approximately 65% of the fish consumed in europe is imported, which, in the absence of strict import controls, poses a major health risk to european consumers. the commission and the member states need to improve the implementation of measures to ensure the traceability of fish served in restaurants, with particular reference to the regulation on the common organisation of the markets and article 36 on european eco-labelling for fishery and aquaculture products. the genetic barcode as a traceability tool for fishery products should be used more effectively. this innovative method is capable of identifying fish species with a far higher degree of reliability than other diagnostic methods used, and can therefore become an indispensable tool for combating fraud to the detriment of consumers and implementing more stringent controls to raise the levels of hygiene and health and the quality of fishery products.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the committee on development, the two fisheries agreements with mauritania and liberia represent a step forward. these are countries that are trying to get back on their feet after going through hardships like war, epidemics and human rights violations. there are positive signs coming from both countries: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. but there are still countries where humanitarian aid and development cooperation are needed to eradicate poverty, hunger and economic inequality. the european union continues to conclude different fisheries agreements with individual countries that share the same resource and the same sea. i would like to ask the commissioner when we will start promoting a regional fisheries agreement which includes all the countries concerned together. as a member of the committee on development of this parliament, i must point out that, although these agreements are aimed at developing countries in need of humanitarian aid, our opinion is limited to giving the committee's consent or not, without the valuable contribution that comes from the work of the committee itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for the work done by the commission and the rapporteurs. the european union must apply the same principles and rules to partnership agreements as to fleets in european waters, and that is right. and when fishing in third country waters, there must be adequate support for local fisheries for sustainable development. we are positively interfacing with countries which need this help in some way, and for us the issue of human rights and mutual responsibilities between europe and third countries remains a priority. so we appreciate the work done by the commission in including these issues and criteria. i think it is important above all to continue to verify, before and after, as provided for in the agreements, that the contributions granted by the european union in exchange for fishing rights actually reach the local populations. we cannot ignore the fact that our large industrial fleets are extracting resources from these seas, and there must be benefits for the local people. we hope that this fisheries agreement will improve the present situation for liberia, which is a country in recovery.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on china's market economy status (2016/2667 ((rsp)).
i would like to make it very clear that the socialist and democratic group is opposed to the present status of china as a market economy. and that 's for one simple reason: today, china, despite its progress, is not a market economy. let's not get bogged down in technicalities. the future of european industry and millions of jobs are at stake. we have a duty to listen to the legitimate concerns of those workers who fear for their jobs. the steel industry has been dumping chinese industries for years, but unfair competition could affect the whole manufacturing industry. in the face of this risk, in the name of the precautionary principle, we have a duty to stop. the recognition of market economy status would be an irreversible choice, and there can be no compromise solutions or mitigation measures in relation to this. there are only two possibilities: either china fully meets the five criteria that define a market economy (and i challenge anyone to say that the conditions are there today) or china cannot be accorded this status. this is by no means to deny the friendship between china and the european union, which is and will remain strong, but today a risky decision would contribute to the suicide of european industry. we do not want to be partly responsible for a historical error. for these reasons, my group has asked that this parliament debate this issue today and vote tomorrow on a resolution which sends a strong message: the sme to china cannot be recognised.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate of the past few months has shown us how europe can become hostage to a legal dilemma, to the point of forgetting the essential foundations of any commercial relationship: mutual respect and mutual interest. china is not a market economy, everyone recognizes that, perhaps even china itself. we do not want to determine what the wto rules say. we do not want to cling to more or less bold interpretations of the accession protocol. we want to turn to the commission and demand that it assume its responsibilities, first and foremost that of guaranteeing respect for and application of the treaties, which state that the union promotes economic growth and employment and, in its relations with the rest of the world, defends europe's general interest. now, in these months of obstinate and opaque silence on the part of the commission, we have not been content to wait. we organized dozens of meetings, we listened, we launched a counter-public consultation. and what we have heard is an unmistakable cry of alarm, a dramatic cry for help from entire sectors of industry - some of them still outside this building today - who fear the tsunami of unbridled chinese competition. and certainly no one is reassured by the commission's incredible claims of limited and limited impact. we have a charge sheet: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want europe to be held hostage to a legal trap. we want the wto to be a place where we can reconcile our interests: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must have the courage not to recognize china as a market economy until it meets the five criteria laid down by the european union, in respect of fair and balanced relations. there is no alibi for china. there is no other way to europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, we have asked for this debate with determination because we believe it is essential that parliament should express its opinion on a matter of such importance as the representative of all european citizens. we are not fighting against china, which we recognize as a major trading and political partner and certainly not as an enemy. our fight, on the other hand, is to make global trade fair and sustainable. the european union is trying to set up a trade strategy that has the ambition to define the rules and standards at global level. but if the partners do not respect these rules, the whole trade policy collapses. china, regardless of its formal status, is not a market economy and our companies, if we legislators do not intervene, will be competing with each other in an unequal manner. what we want are not protectionist measures, but a fair and competitive system. we therefore ask the commission: first, there is no automatic recognition of market economy status. secondly, there is a legislative proposal aimed at maintaining the effectiveness of anti-dumping measures in a manner compatible with wto rules. thirdly, there is formal coordination with other trading partners. this debate is intended to demonstrate the spirit of constructive cooperation which animates us, in the conviction that only by addressing the issues with transparency can the best solutions be found.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to express my strong opposition to the recognition of china's market economy status, stressing that this is a strategic debate for the future and the trade policy of the union. not only does china not meet the requirements for market economy status, but here we are talking about the future of the union's trade policy: we have to ask ourselves whether we want it to be used to raise standards and labour rights, or do we want it to be the vehicle for a downward competition on labour rights? it is not just about defending european jobs, it is about defending the quality of work. it is not about protectionism, it is about protecting labour rights. it is also a matter of protecting one of the strategic axes of the european steel industry. it is estimated that the granting of met to china would result in a reduction of between 1% and 2% of gdp, mainly affecting countries with manufacturing production. for the italian steel industry, it would be a devastating choice. we therefore call on the commission to take action at multilateral level for an anti-dumping review and a reform of the wto, while at the same time denying china market economy status today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate confirms that europe does not exist. let's not kid ourselves. i would like to see any of the workers, artisans, fishermen and farmers who have been massacred by the insane policies of this europe and by a commission which imposes restrictive laws on our farms. in the field of the environment, they go around the world to make a fuss, to say that we must not pollute, rightly, and then there are some who think of making deals with those who do not comply with any regulations in terms of the environment, in terms of trade unions, in terms of health, in terms of wages. there's somebody who wants to put some goods in china and then wants to slaughter the steel, the ceramic, the textile, the paper, the glass industry. it is surreal. i am sure that the commission will be able to explain to us, and to the 500 million europeans, that the sun is the one that revolves around the earth. it's not like that, it's bullshit. it's the earth that revolves around the sun. china is not a market economy. if there are any european commissioners or members of the european parliament who are paid by european citizens to serve the interests of others, let them go to work elsewhere, let them go to work in china, but first let them pass an italian or european factory, which will close if this kind of madness is approved. on the other hand, from a europe which is not able to defend its borders, which gives 6 billion euros to turkey under the blackmail of the invasion of immigrants, which continues to quarrel with russia - which, yes, would be a trading partner, other than turkey and china - i expect nothing. i hope that this europe dies as soon as possible and that another, more serious, more democratic, more free and more modern, is born as soon as possible. (the speaker refuses to answer a question with a blue card)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make it very clear that china is not a market economy. there is no market economy where the state intervenes heavily to narcotize a world market against real costs. there are two main points, mr president, because we can never accept that. we have fought so hard for workers' rights, environmental rights, fundamental rights in this europe which may or may not be liked, but it is there, perhaps it must be changed but it must not be closed, i would like to say this. but a step like this is crucial for my country, but i believe it is also crucial for europe. it is not possible to think that one can, with the money of the collective of a country, attack a world-wide industry such as the steel industry, which is clear that the cost of ore is higher than the finished product, steel. in view of these facts, i believe that no one, not even those who have the greatest interest, perhaps with a single sector export to china, can decide to vote in favour of recognition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is useless to repeat concepts which we have already heard. i think it is more useful to understand what the effects and consequences would be if we were to grant china the status of a market economy. i think that immediately there would be a reduction in the trade defenses of the countries of europe, particularly italy, and i think that this could be indicated by an estimated percentage of 30%. what are the consequences of this 30% reduction? there is an economic impact, but above all an employment and employment impact, so we are concerned above all about our workers, our industrial system which would realize the loss of thousands and thousands and thousands of jobs. i think it is important to think about these two concepts above all, because our job is to suggest solutions. the solutions must be those which parliament must propose immediately, beyond a yes or no (and we say no) to the recognition of china's market economy status. but at the same time we are also realizing the condition that a legislative procedure should be activated which in any case provides for trade defence and therefore new anti-dumping defence formulas against chinese products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have two comments to make to the commission. the first point concerns the defence of the market. we must not defend ourselves against the market, we must defend ourselves in the market. i do not want to spoil my entrepreneurs by convincing them that it is not necessary to have good products and that it is enough to have a state to protect them. i want them to continue, in italy and in europe, to be the leaders of world manufacturing. that is why i want to defend them in a market which defends itself against china, because it does not respect this fundamental rule. second point: i heard someone here say, rather naively, that it's good to buy cheap products from china. that is a typical statement of someone who unfortunately lives more in the here than in the outside, in reality. because those who enter our market with low prices will destroy our industry and then raise prices. that means dumping predators. it means you don't have a choice. we need less ingenuity, less theory and more defence of true excellence, of a strong and sustainable development model like the european one. that is why i say no to the recognition of china's market economy status.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china is not a market economy, and yet the european commission seems to want to recognize it as such, and if it does we will no longer be able to defend ourselves against its unfair trade practices and we will be invaded by its products. what are we talking about? we are talking about a potential invasion of chinese products worth 145 billion euros, we are talking about a loss of jobs for 3.5 million people in europe, of which about 400 000 in italy alone. we're talking about a drop in gdp of 1 to 2%. the sectors most affected will be steel, ceramics, technology and textiles, but in the future also chemicals and advanced machinery. for italy, as for many other countries in the european union, it would be the final blow. mr president, when we talk about china, we are talking about an economy which produces 80% of its energy from coal, which uses 40 different types of subsidies to enterprises and which ruthlessly practices unfair competition aimed at destroying european industries and slaughtering our workers. so saying "no to mes china" is a definite duty for us today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china claims that the wto accession protocol would guarantee automatic recognition of market economy status after 15 years of membership, an interpretation which is totally unacceptable. the recognition of china's market economy status must first be conditional on verification of compliance with the five criteria. in any case, whatever decision the european union may take, it is necessary to think of a plan b, which includes equivalent trade defence measures capable of countering unfair competition practices, ensuring a level playing field between companies from third countries and those in europe. these instruments play a crucial role in safeguarding key sectors of european manufacturing industry which contribute fundamentally to growth and innovation and employment in the member states. it is therefore essential for the european union to maintain trade protection mechanisms by applying first of all the principle of reciprocity in the union's trade policy in order to ensure fair competition and ensure a level playing field. the conditions for granting china market economy status do not currently exist. the commission should therefore make proposals to protect europe's interests by identifying a third way, capable of finding a solution satisfactory to both sides.
ms. marias, you can't just sign up, like you asked. the rules are clear: the catch-the-eye is for mps watching the debate, and here are officials who are recording attendance during the debate. i'll give you the floor for a minute.
i ask you to enter the details, because our services know exactly when you entered the chamber. i give the floor to the chinese esm.
i invite you to enter the subject if you wish to comment on the merits of the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my great satisfaction that parliament is finally adopting a formal position in this plenary session on a matter of strategic importance, after months of being guilty of preventing this house from expressing itself by a vote. the decision we have to make is not whether china is a market economy or not: everyone knows that it is not, neither formally nor substantially. the decision to be made is whether or not to off-load our production system. if this is a legitimate question for an entrepreneur, it is not a question for the institutions, which must govern and guide the future of europe. our institutions must be able to look into the eyes of those small and large entrepreneurs who are opening up their businesses every day, who are competing in the global market with quality and innovation and who are guaranteeing jobs and high standards against artificially subsidized foreign companies. important decisions are to be taken in the coming months, but no deadline can dictate the strategic choices for europe's future.
member of the commission.– mr president, i have taken good note of all the interventions. i think that this debate today has highlighted the fact that, despite the technical complexity of this file, the european union is strongly committed to ensuring that our industry competes on a level playing field. for this to happen, we need to act on the causes of unfair trade, but also on its symptoms. our trade defence instruments must be efficient and effective, independently of the expiry of certain provisions of chinese accession and protocol to the wto. so this object requires action by member states in the council to ensure that the modernisation of our trade defence instruments moves forward quickly. in the meantime, the commission is continuing the impact assessment so that we take account of the views of all those affected, as many of you have mentioned. it is imperative that work is complete in order to enable the commission to make a decision that will reflect all of our interests.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is clearly a complicated file. on the one hand, we entered into agreements with the accession of china to the wto 15 years ago and we cannot just ignore our obligations. on the other hand, china is by no means a market economy, as the commissioner and many meps have rightly stated, and yes, we need to protect european industry and european workers against unfair trade practices. in other words, we will need to balance our international obligations and our strategic commercial interests, the interests of our producers, consumers and users. the council has full confidence that the commissioner, the commission, will act accordingly. mr caspary, and others also, stated that the council should have the necessary political will and unity to overcome the blockade. let me assure you that the dutch presidency is doing everything to do so and let me also underline once more that our ultimate objective is the very same as that of the members of this house: strong and effective trade defence systems in order to tackle unfair trade practices and thus ensure a global level playing field. that is why, as i stated earlier today, the foreign affairs council will discuss the commission’s communication, as well as other proposals and ideas, this friday, 13 may. i am convinced that the exchanges today are a very good basis for further work between our institutions, and again you can rest assured that the council will take into consideration the legitimate interests and concerns of european consumers and producers.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be notified subsequently. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 may 2016 at 12.00 hours. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on economic growth and youth employment (2016/2702 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a simple point to make. we need the youth employment initiative to be re-financed for the next few years. this is an essential instrument, as has already been pointed out by the commission and by many experts with whom i have had the opportunity to converse. it provides the liquidity for the regions of europe with the highest youth unemployment rates to launch youth guarantee programmes, which are gradually becoming a steering wheel for improving the public and private structures dealing with the supply and demand of labour and services for work and employment in general, a sector in need of investment and reform in many countries. finally, i would like to stress the central role played by the european social fund in the fight against youth unemployment. after suffering a heavy cut during the last negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, we now have the opportunity to correct this error in the audit exercise which is about to begin. i am convinced that the european parliament will make a strong use of its prerogatives on this subject.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for the european union to encourage lasting, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, which finds its real and natural outlet in the creation of conditions to promote youth employment. at a difficult and complex time for the production system, the development of networks between the training and entrepreneurial systems is strategic for the development of skills consistent with innovation processes. the development of specific policy areas organized according to a network, education and work logic capable of promoting dynamic and continuing training should be facilitated. it is sad to say that young europeans are not in a position to make the most of their wealth of knowledge and their capacity for innovation. if europe is to be credible, it must first of all recover the enthusiasm of its young people, implementing policies geared to their needs and creating the conditions to ensure that they have the skills they need to succeed in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation is aimed at protecting against subsidised imports from countries outside the european union. the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts, without any substantial changes. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on defence against subsidised imports from countries outside the european union. this is a technical measure which merely codifies existing texts, facilitating and simplifying access to existing legislation. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report, as i share its objective.
in writing. ‒ the hautala report, while partly agreeable, does not represent a real step forward in anti-dumping and anti-subsidy legislation. but i think that more decisive action is needed, as i have been saying for years, to make eu legislation more restrictive and to effectively oppose cases of dumping which cause serious damage to our companies. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this codification because i believe that it allows for a more orderly organisation of the legal framework governing defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ in both hautala reports we are faced with a mere codification of the anti-dumping regulations, in this case regulation (ec) no 597/2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the northern league has been fighting for years for the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy rules to be updated in a more restrictive way.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation which brings together all the provisions relating to protection against subsidised imports from countries outside the european union, making european legislation on the matter clearer and more transparent. public subsidies granted by the country of origin of the imported product or by an intermediate country from which the product is exported to the eu distort competition because they lower the selling price of the products placed on the market and cause serious damage to european companies. the european legislation on protection against subsidised imports from outside the eu provides a precise definition of subsidy and contains provisions for the calculation of the benefit conferred on the beneficiary, for the determination of injury and the initiation of proceedings, for the adoption of provisional measures and for definitive countervailing duties. in order to ensure the proper application of these measures in defence of subsidies, it requires the active participation of the member states which are required to notify the commission of trade related to imports of products subject to investigation or subject to measures. the commission may, for its part, request member states to provide information in order to monitor the effectiveness of the measures in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries as it is a mere codification of the recent amendments.
in writing. ‒ it was easy to express my support for this report, since it is a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes. i therefore gave my consent with the aim of simplifying the existing legislation on unfair competition in imports from non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ the european trade policy must be protected against subsidised imports of goods from third countries. i therefore welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to safeguard trade between the member states of the european union. this regulation lays down community rules on the imposition of a countervailing duty, the purpose of which is to rebalance the market for subsidies granted, directly or indirectly, for the manufacture, production, export or transport of any product from a third country, the placing of which on the eu market causes injury to competitors. i voted in favour of the proposal, which is a codification of existing texts, which does not require substantial amendments, as decided by the consultative group which examined its compliance with eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution is important in clarifying certain aspects of imports from subsidised companies in non-eu countries. i believe that it is necessary to establish clear indicative values in order to determine whether subsidized imports are causing injury to european industries. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. i also believe that improving the system of countervailing and provisional duties can help to establish objective rules on subsidies and injury. finally, i support the introduction of a provision on the avoidance of countervailing measures, a practice which is currently taking place not only within the eu but also outside the union. i therefore intend to support the proposal for a regulation on these important aspects, the improvement of which would allow the union market to operate in a transparent and competitive manner.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because i believe that stricter anti-dumping and anti-subsidy rules are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this resolution as it aims to provide an increased legal basis for taking action in regard to protecting eu markets and producers. it is of great importance that the eu has the ability to protect eu workers and businesses from unfair business practices used by countries outside of the european union. this is not only a matter of economics but also a matter of responsibility and trust and the eu needs to have a high degree of flexibility in regard to market protection to preserve both fair market practices and the trust of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the agreement reached with the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. this regulation is in fact part of the need for clarity and transparency of the law and aims to transpose the provisions of the agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures in the framework of the world trade organisation into european union law, so as to ensure a transparent application of those provisions. the regulation therefore defines the conditions for the existence of a subsidy, the principles governing the applicability of countervailing duties and the criteria for calculating countervailable subsidies.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries. this regulation lays down community rules on the imposition of a countervailing duty, with the aim of promoting a fairer and more efficient market. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has requested that the existing texts be codified. in view of the above, i support the text as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation on protection against subsidised imports from countries outside the european union. the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying the wording of union legislation, so that it becomes clearer and more accessible to citizens, giving them new opportunities to assert the rights enshrined in the legislation. it is therefore necessary to codify the provisions which have been subject to various amendments if the legislation is to be simple, clear and transparent. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal from the european commission to the european parliament and the council, and since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considers that the proposal in question concerns only the codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. the report sets out the opinion of parliament's legal affairs committee on a proposal for a regulation on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the report proposes an amendment to the existing texts, but leaves the substance unchanged. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. since the new regulation replaces the various regulations it incorporates, preserving their substance and making only the formal changes necessary for the purpose of codification, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns defence against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. since the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the hautala report on the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. this is a technical measure which merely codifies existing texts, i share the report's aim of facilitating and simplifying access to existing legislation and have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ although partly agreeable, i do not think that the text under voting represents a decisive change to the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy legislation. i am convinced that substantial action is needed, and i have been advocating this for years, to make eu legislation less tolerant of dumping which causes enormous damage to our companies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this codification because i believe that it allows for a more orderly organisation of the legal framework governing defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ in both hautala reports we are faced with a mere codification of the anti-dumping regulations, in this case regulation (ec) no 597/2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the northern league has been fighting for years for the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy rules to be updated in a more restrictive way.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union, because it brings order to a matter which seemed to be fragmented. dumping of products imported into the eu poses serious competition problems for our companies, which are forced to compete with products which are priced below the prices on third country markets or even below the cost of production. the aim is to gain market share abroad or to drive out competition. the european anti-dumping legislation contains provisions for the determination of dumping and injury, the initiation of the investigation, the conduct of the investigation, the provisional measures to be taken, the imposition of definitive duties, the duration and the review of the measure adopted. the new regulation, which consolidates council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 and its amending act, replaces the various regulations it incorporates and makes only the formal changes necessary for the purpose of codification.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns defence against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. during the examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 imposing additional customs duties on imports of certain products originating in the united states of america, the advisory group unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes. i voted for the encryption.
in writing. ‒ the report's simple objective is to codify efficiently the existing regulation on protection against subsidised imports from countries outside the european union. since this proposal is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes, and with the aim of simplifying the legislation as much as possible, it was easy for me to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure fair competition for products sold on the european union market by community manufacturers, the union may impose anti-dumping measures on imports. the purpose of the report of the european parliament and of the council is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 imposing additional customs duties on imports of certain products originating in the united states of america. i voted in favour of the proposal, which is essentially a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because i believe that stricter anti-dumping and anti-subsidy rules are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the agreement with the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against socially-dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. the regulation is intended to transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into the framework of european union law, which provides, inter alia, for specific rules on the calculation of dumping margins, the imposition of provisional measures and the disclosure of information relating to anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries. as you know, dumping occurs when a company sells a product for export at a price lower than the price charged in the market of origin. therefore, in order to ensure fair competition on products sold on the union market, the eu may impose anti-dumping measures on imports. as with the previously approved proposal, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission calls for the existing texts to be codified. for these reasons i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. the purpose of the report of the european parliament and of the council is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 imposing additional customs duties on imports of certain products originating in the united states of america. the proposal is therefore limited to a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the proposal by mrs hautala, i decided to vote in favour of the proposal as it concerns the mere codification of existing texts and does not make any significant changes to them. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the legal examination of the proposal to impose additional customs duties on imports of certain products from the united states. the proposal does not change the union's policy but continues the line already taken with regard to dumped exports. as i have done on other occasions, i have expressed my views on anti-dumping policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union, as it is a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is invited to give its recommendation to approve or reject the eu-liberia fisheries agreement. the agreement covers a quota of almost 6 500 tonnes. part of the eu contribution is earmarked for the sustainable development of the area. the terms of the agreement allow for greater transparency, so as to foster a culture of sustainable development. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ fishing is a key sector of liberia's economy, and the country's more than 500 kilometres of coastline provide it with a vast eez rich in valuable fish species, including tuna. 3% of liberian gdp and 12% of its agricultural gdp depend on the exploitation of these resources which provide the liberian population with 65% of animal protein. the outbreak of the last civil war has severely affected the sector, leading to an increase in illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. in particular, foreign fishing vessels have severely compromised liberian fish stocks through their activity, damaging not only the marine ecosystem but also the potential sources of income of indigenous fishermen. the wałęsa report, which i supported with my vote, approves the conclusion of the new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia. this is a major agreement which, in return for funding to liberia for scientific research, artisanal fishing and the monitoring and combating of illegal fishing, will guarantee the european ocean fleet access to the liberian eez and its fish resources, while strictly adhering to the principles of sustainable fisheries and aquaculture management.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is well structured and free of criticism. that is why i have voted for it.
in writing. ‒ today, eu-liberia fisheries cooperation is part of the wider framework of multilateral agreements or the field of action of organisations operating at regional level. i therefore welcome the conclusion of a first bilateral agreement between the eu and liberia to foster the development of increasingly sophisticated and sustainable fishing practices, while at the same time tackling illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, in line with the eu's overall strategy on this matter. the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfp) and its protocol will strengthen eu-liberia cooperation in tackling this phenomenon, allowing for increased capacity to control fish stocks, enhanced protection of marine ecosystems and a more responsible use of marine resources. the implementation protocol to the agreement grants european access to the liberian fishing zone in a more transparent and regulated framework, which will benefit both parties. the partnership will contribute to the development of the liberian fisheries sector through the promotion of scientific cooperation and the strengthening of infrastructure, encouraging employment among local coastal communities and the economic recovery of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that this eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement will allow european fleets to access the fishery resources of liberia's exclusive economic zone (eez) and, at the same time, allow local fishermen to maintain a share of the fishery that will allow them to sustain themselves and their future development.
in writing. - the new agreement is only for tuna. for a total of €3.25 million over five years, eu vessels can catch a total of 6 500 tonnes of tuna per year. the financial contributions shall be equally divided between an amount intended for access to fishery resources and an amount intended for support of liberia's sectoral fisheries policy. other elements of the reform are also included, such as the 'exclusivity' clause, a human rights clause and a principle that no other country fishing in deep-sea fisheries can enjoy more favourable conditions than the eu. although the italian interest at stake is relative (the italian fleet fishing in the oceans is relatively small and is directed at other countries), i am in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the partnership agreement with liberia because it is consistent with both the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principles of sustainable management of fisheries. the agreement strengthens cooperation between the eu and liberia, and more generally with west africa, where important tuna fishing areas are located. the agreement promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and for the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone. another very positive aspect is that the agreement in question assists the eu in its overall fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing by supporting the improvement of monitoring, control and surveillance activities in the liberian fisheries sector and exclusive economic zones.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia, which allows european vessels to fish in liberian waters. i have in particular appealed a transparency provision, a key element in promoting sustainable fisheries, which requires the publication of any agreement (public or private) allowing access to liberian waters by foreign-flagged vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, in my view, in the formation of a partnership agreement between the european union and liberia for sustainable fisheries, it lays a solid foundation for genuinely promoting sustainable and economically viable fisheries management. it was an important vote for me because i believe that this report sets out the objective of using these resources not only with due regard for our ecosystem, but also with a view to the future, to generate prosperity and to enable the exploitation of this resource by future generations as well. i have therefore seen that the agreement sets out common objectives for liberia and the union, and above all that these objectives are consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, and i could only express my support for it. i will always be in favour of agreements which allow growth and development not only for europe but also for third countries, especially when they are in the interests of both parties and, as in this case, respect a resource which is fundamental to me.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia, as such cooperation would contribute to the eu's objectives in the fight against illegal fishing and to the dissemination of standards for the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture. the promotion of the partnership framework for the development of sustainable fisheries and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone is a shared interest of the european union and liberia. cooperation between the european union and liberia more generally also strengthens cooperation between west africa and tuna fishing areas.
in writing. ‒ the sustainable fisheries agreement with liberia runs for five years and allows european vessels, especially spanish and french, to fish in the waters of liberia's exclusive economic zone. in return, the eu will provide the african country with a total financial contribution of eur 3.2 million: 715 thousand the first year, 650 thousand the second, third and fourth years and 585 thousand the fifth year. the fisheries sector accounts for 3% of liberia's gdp and is a major source of livelihood for over half of the population living along the coast. the agreement shows that great strides are being made in relations with liberia, but there are still serious problems in the african country, the fight against extreme poverty and hunger, humanitarian aid and development cooperation cannot stop. poverty and hunger are increasingly the issues that are the focus of attention of international agencies, governments and ngos. from a european point of view, i believe that the fisheries agreements with liberia represent a step forward, although i am hopeful that a regional fisheries agreement will include all the african countries concerned. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to support the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia already presented by the council. i believe this is a step forward in the framework of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, which will give the eu access to fisheries in liberia's exclusive economic zone and technical and financial support to liberia, in view of the joint objectives of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and sustainable management of fisheries resources and ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ on 5 june 2015, the european union signed the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of liberia, together with its implementation protocol. today the european parliament gave the final go-ahead for the conclusion of the agreement, which promotes a strategic framework between the european union and liberia in the fisheries sector and allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy capable of ensuring responsible and economically viable exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone, where important tuna fishing areas are located. this is a first step with the wider objective of extending the european fisheries cooperation policy with the west african countries and thus allowing european fishing vessels access to new areas on the basis of precise rules also shared with our partners, in exchange for support for the local community. the partnership agreement also has the merit of providing for closer and more effective cooperation with the liberian authorities in the fight against illegal fishing: the european union is one of the battles the european union has been waging for the last few years, both within and outside its borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, whose objectives meet the requirements of the eu's common fisheries policy. the report focuses on the development of international cooperation for the management of shared stocks and the implementation of fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance mechanisms, all of which are aimed at increasing certainty and security of rights for eu vessels. the agreement is an important milestone, as it strengthens cooperation between the eu and liberia, and more generally with west africa, where important tuna fishing areas are located, bringing mutual benefits to both parties.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report, which does not have a negative impact on the italian economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the fisheries partnership with liberia as i believe this agreement is in the interests of both the european union and liberia. the agreement will provide liberia with technical and financial support from the european union while at the same time opening up liberian fishing waters to a quota of eu vessels. i think that both of these aspects are important and in the european union’s interest; on one hand to give our fishing industries additional waters to fish in, as well as helping liberia to move towards stability and further progress and in doing so provide the opportunities for its inhabitants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia. in recent years, the european union has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements with third countries, providing financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights related to the large fish stocks in the partner country's area. i believe that these agreements are not only consistent with the common objectives of the fisheries policy, but also provide for a sustainable and economically viable management of the fisheries sector, which can bring many benefits to both parties in the long term.
in writing. i would like to stress once again the importance of supporting the local fisheries market, alongside the international market. in view of this, it is essential to conclude international agreements to safeguard our fisheries. in the present case, the eu ratifies a five-year agreement with liberia to strengthen cooperation with it. liberia, which faces the atlantic coast, has important tuna fishing grounds. this agreement will make it possible, through improved monitoring, control and surveillance (mcs), to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of resources and to support the fight against illegal fishing. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the eu-liberia partnership agreement for sustainable fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto. this is the first partnership agreement between the republic of liberia and the european union on sustainable fisheries, with the aim of strengthening and consolidating cooperation between liberia and the european union in the global fight against unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ europe has a long history of fishing in the waters off the coast of liberia. i support this agreement because it allows us to continue along this path, also by providing assistance to liberia in order to support internal consumption. i welcome the inclusion in the agreement of a human rights clause and conditions of equal treatment with liberia.
in writing. ‒ in view of the widespread use of practices harmful to the environment and wildlife in the atlantic tuna fishery, we warmly welcome the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia. the agreement will serve the dual purpose of promoting sustainable conditions and practices in fishing and ensuring good growth opportunities for european operators. the partnership, through cooperation between the agency for the control of marine resources and the european commission, the reference to the conventions of the international labour organisation, and the imposition of rules to protect marine biodiversity, with particular reference to the populations of tuna, will ensure conditions of greater environmental and social sustainability. the text of the agreement obliges the liberian authorities not to grant fishing licences to third country fleets which do not comply with the terms of the agreement. the contribution will also support job creation and the construction of infrastructure for the fisheries sector, thus supporting measures to stimulate the growth of the economic system, which has been torn apart by years of civil war. during the conflict, the lack of control over fish stocks led to the exploitation of the marine ecosystem by foreign fleets and a decline in the atlantic population.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to express my favourable vote on the proposal of my colleague because i believe that the partnership agreement with the republic of liberia fits perfectly within the framework of the fisheries partnership agreements already concluded by the european union. the current cooperation between the european union and liberia in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing would, in my view, be further strengthened by this agreement. in addition, given the eu's economic interests in tuna fishing, the conclusion of the agreement in june 2015 would ensure greater security of rights for eu vessels as well as the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities. i am convinced that the partnership agreement is mutually beneficial for both parties, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (spa) with liberia and its implementation protocol are consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principles of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture. the agreement strengthens cooperation between the eu and liberia, and more generally with west africa, where important tuna fishing areas are located. it also promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone. i believe that this partnership can bring many mutual benefits to both sides. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. i voted with the epp group in favour of this report which gives a positive assessment of the eu-liberia cooperation agreement on sustainable fisheries in a resource rich area. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen, alongside trade cooperation, control and monitoring of the sustainable exploitation of resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution by which the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and its implementation protocol between the european union and the republic of liberia. for a total of €3.25 million over five years, eu vessels will be able to fish 6,500 tonnes of tuna per year in liberian waters. the financial contributions shall be equally divided between an amount intended for access to fishery resources and an amount intended to support liberia's sectoral fisheries policy. the exclusive clause, a human rights clause and a principle that no other country fishing in deep-sea fisheries can enjoy more favourable conditions than the eu have also been included. i believe that this agreement can not only bring many economic benefits to both parties, but also help to strengthen monitoring, control and surveillance in order to prevent iuu fishing and ensure the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liberia partnership agreement for sustainable fisheries. the main objective of this agreement is to provide fishing opportunities for european vessels in the liberian fishing zone and to increase cooperation in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the agreement will help liberia improve its fisheries monitoring operations and promote the development of the whole sector. the agreement will also contribute to the economic recovery and political stabilisation of the country, which has been weakened by years of civil war. finally, the partnership is in line with the common fisheries policy (cfp) by ensuring that fishing activities in liberian waters are conducted in compliance with the principles of sustainability, transparency, non-discrimination and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is invited to give its recommendation to approve or reject the eu-mauritania fisheries agreement. the fisheries partnership agreement allows european vessels to fish in the country's waters for a further four years. the agreement covers a quota of almost 300 000 tonnes. the financial contribution from the eu-mauritania has been substantially reduced and part of the contribution is earmarked for the sustainable development of the area. conditions have improved considerably since the last agreement, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ mauritania, a link between black africa and the maghreb world, is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world. its weak economy is based on mining and fishing, given the very limited agricultural land on the banks of the senegal river. mauritania's waters are among the richest fishing grounds on the planet, and although the fisheries sector accounts for about 10% of the country's gdp, it still appears to be under-exploited. from 1989 to 2014, the european union and mauritania concluded several fisheries agreements which were replaced in 2015 by the new agreement, which is already provisionally applied. i supported the mato report on the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership because i share its content. the agreement, which provides for a financial contribution for access rights and support for the promotion of sustainable fishing, will give european vessels access to the country's exclusive economic zone for four years and allow them to exploit the country's fish stocks, in particular shrimp, tuna, demersal and pelagic fish.
in writing. ‒ the mato report on the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement is well-articulated and contains no problematic passages. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the first fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania was signed in 1989 and has been followed by many others, giving the eu access to the country's fisheries resources. the new protocol, which has been provisionally applied since last november, extends fishing opportunities in mauritanian waters and the country's exclusive zone for a further four years and opens up new opportunities for european vessels. it also represents a considerable step forward compared with the provisions of the previous agreement, which covered a number of shortcomings both in terms of the guarantees of non-discrimination and preferential access for the european fleet and in terms of greater transparency, which mauritania is committed to ensuring by making public all agreements concluded in this field with third countries. i therefore support the adoption of this new protocol, which is more balanced and transparent, and which also gives greater weight to environmental sustainability and the socioeconomic dimension of the agreement, for example by providing for the obligation to recruit a substantial proportion of crews from mauritanian fishermen, to the benefit of local employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement represents an important step forward both for european fleets, whose access to mauritanian fisheries resources is regulated in a clearer and more favourable way than previously envisaged, and for local fishermen, who are guaranteed a share of the fisheries that will allow them to sustain themselves and their future development.
in writing. ‒ on 10 july 2015, the european union and mauritania signed a new protocol, which will allow eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. the protocol has already been applied provisionally since 16 november 2015. the financial contribution which the european union will pay to mauritania each year for allowing european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone amounts to eur 55 million, compared with eur 67 million under the previous protocol. in addition, a financial contribution of 16.5 million for the entire period of the agreement (4,125 million per year, compared with 3 million under the previous protocol) is intended to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector; the agreement would provide for equal treatment of eu fleets (in the past, sometimes penalized compared to those of other states). mauritania is a medium-interest fishing zone for italian vessels, although it too is penalized by eu technical rules (later extended to its apps agreements with third countries). i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the new fisheries agreement with mauritania. the new commitments made by mauritania on transparency and preferential access for the european fleet are positive, especially in view of the bitter experience of recent years, when mauritania opened its cephalopod fisheries to foreign fleets while denying access to the european fleet. the agreement with mauritania should serve as a model for the agreements which the european union will henceforth conclude with other third countries. i therefore encourage the commission to follow the same path of transparency in other bilateral negotiations. the increased support for local fisheries in mauritania also demonstrates the eu's strong commitment to developing the fleets of the countries with which it has agreements, and the eu's desire to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability promoted under its fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania, which allows european vessels to fish in mauritanian waters. to enable european vessels to access mauritania's exclusive fishing zone, the european union will pay the country €55 million a year, compared with €67 million under the previous protocol. in addition, a financial contribution of 16.5 million is provided for the entire period of the agreement, which is intended to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment, marine protected areas and coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, again on fisheries, because, like the previous one, it introduces a partnership agreement, in this particular case with mauritania. i voted in favour because, in analysing the report before me, i have seen how this not only protects the economic resource that fisheries represent but also how it is an important commercial driver in the environmentally sound use of this resource. the report also seeks to protect the people in need in the territory by giving them a part of the proceeds of the resource, which is very important in order to respond effectively to the serious food security problem in mauritania.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the new agreement with mauritania, which is of shared interest and in particular an opportunity for mauritania to develop its economy, which is heavily dependent on fisheries. the agreement promotes substantial progress on the commitments made by the mauritanian state to guarantee greater transparency and preferential access for the european fleet in national waters. the agreement also serves as an example by opening the way to the conclusion of agreements between the european union and other third countries. i therefore voted in favour of the partnership which i have signed, a necessary instrument for the development of sustainable fisheries and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in mauritania.
in writing. ‒ parliament is called upon to vote on the approval of the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania. the objective of the agreement is to provide european union vessels with fishing opportunities in mauritanian waters, taking into account available scientific assessments, in particular those of the committee for fisheries in the eastern central atlantic (copace), in accordance with the scientific advice and recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and within the limits of the available surplus. the objective is also to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of the islamic republic of mauritania, in the interests of both parties. the agreement also provides for a reduction in the financial contribution that the eu will have to pay to mauritania annually compared to the previous protocol, the sum will amount to eur 55 million instead of eur 67. it is very important that the eu respects its obligation to promote environmentally and socially sustainable fisheries in developing countries, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-mauritania agreement will allow eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years, for a total of 281,500 tonnes per year of different types of tuna and related species. i voted in favour of the new protocol because i believe it is a positive milestone for the eu, which will contribute to responsible fishing and sustainable management of fisheries resources, including through enhanced transparency measures. the protocol pays particular attention to reducing the impact of fishing activities on marine ecosystems, while respecting the activities of the mauritanian coastal and artisanal fleets.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the agreement which helps european fisheries in some way.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the basis that this new agreement is a substantial improvement from the last fishing agreement with mauritania. this new agreement will keep the mauritanian fishing waters open for a quota of eu vessels which is very important and it is better than the last agreement from a cost/benefit perspective. another important aspect of this agreement is the support that the eu will provide to mauritania and its fishery sector, including the employment of mauritanian citizens on eu ships for increased employment and eu support to build an effective and sustainable fisheries sector, a major provider of food to mauritania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european communities and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years. the agreement with mauritania should serve as a model for future agreements which the union will conclude with other third countries. the country's economy is weak and it is facing a structural food deficit caused by the desertification of arable land and the scarcity of means of production. economic activities are focused on fishing, benefiting from some of the richest waters in the world, but the opportunities for economic development are very few and untapped. a strengthening of cooperation between the union and mauritania establishes a framework for partnership in the development of a policy that makes responsible use of its resources in the fisheries sector.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, which provides for the possibility for eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. to be able to adopt this european policy, the eu will have to pay mauritania an annual contribution of €55 million. the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, said that this agreement was an important step forward, as it would ensure stability for fisheries in mauritania's waters. he also said that the agreement should serve as a model for future agreements between the eu and third countries. that is why, on the basis of the above considerations, i am voting in favour of the agreement with mauritania to provide financial support and to promote sustainable development of both fisheries and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. the european union and mauritania have signed a new protocol, which will allow eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of about four years. the european union will pay mauritania eur 55 million annually to allow european vessels access to its fishing zone, with a further financial contribution of eur 16.5 million to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the agreement with mauritania strengthens an earlier agreement, which is already very beneficial for both sides. both sides will be able to meet their own internal demand. in particular, mauritania, one of the poorest countries in the world, with a desperate food deficit and enormous food insecurity, must be given the best possible support. i am therefore glad that the agreement contains measures to deal with these problems.
in writing. ‒ in view of the social and economic circumstances in mauritania, the fishing practices that are harmful to the marine ecosystem and the historical presence of european fishing fleets in mauritian waters, we vote in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania. the agreement will ensure that european fishermen and operators exploit a significant fish stock in an environmentally friendly manner in coastal zones and protected areas, with a view to developing a sustainable and responsible fishing model. the text provides that the european union will pay the mauritanian government an annual contribution to support employment and the creation of increased production and processing capacity through infrastructure investment and strategic advice. fishing is, after the mining sector, the second source of income for the country, which, in 2014, ranked 161 out of 187 in the human development index and which chronically suffers from a dramatic level of unemployment. to this end, we welcome the condition in the protocol that operators will be required to include mauritanian fishermen in their crews, 60% for shrimp vessels and pelagic trawlers.
in writing. ‒ regarding the proposal under consideration, i have decided to vote in favour. the new protocol would allow european vessels to fish for shellfish in mauritania's waters for a period of four years, with some exceptions. the protocol revises the allowable fishing quotas with the consequent reduction of the economic compensation paid by the european union to mauritania. the new protocol will make it possible to fill the gaps in the previous text, improve the fishing conditions of the fleet fishing for migratory species and ensure positive fishing conditions for european fleets. i therefore thought it appropriate to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the first fisheries agreement with mauritania was signed in 1989 and since then a number of agreements have been concluded with the aim of allowing european fishing vessels to fish in mauritian waters. the new fisheries agreement with mauritania will allow community vessels to fish for shrimp, demersal fish, tuna and small pelagic fish in mauritania's exclusive economic zone for a period of four years. in return, the eu will provide mauritania with €59.125 million per year - €55 million for eligible catch totals and €4.125 million to stimulate the sustainable development of the fisheries sector in mauritania. the resolution on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp) states that the community fisheries agreement with mauritania will serve as a model of transparency and enforcement. i therefore voted in favour and hope that the transparency provisions of the latest protocol with mauritania, which provides for the publication of all agreements with states or private entities granting foreign vessels access to their exclusive economic zone (eez), will be included in all future sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps).
in writing. ‒ the report gives a favourable opinion on the eu-mauritania agreement, which regulates relations with this country in the fisheries sector. the report welcomes the agreement's transparency in the definition of commercial and legal relations. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution by which the european parliament gives its approval to the new four-year protocol which will allow eu vessels to fish in mauritania's waters for shrimp, demersal fish, tuna and small pelagic fish totalling 281 500 tonnes per year. the european union will provide an annual financial contribution of eur 59.125 million, of which eur 4.125 million will be used to support the development of mauritania's sectoral fisheries policy. this is currently the most important agreement in economic terms signed by the european union with a third country. the new protocol is a good step forward from the previous one. the new commitments made by mauritania on transparency and preferential access for european vessels will allow a significant improvement in the cost-benefit ratio, ensuring a better balance between the financial contribution and the fishing opportunities granted and more stability for the eu fleet fishing in mauritanian waters. i hope that this agreement will serve as an example for the agreements which the union will sign in future with other third countries and that the commission will follow the same path of transparency in all bilateral negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly convinced that the same principles and rules applying to fleets in european waters should apply to partnership agreements with third countries. equity and sustainability must also translate into adequate support for local fisheries for sustainable development. i very much appreciate the work done by the commission to include the subject of human rights and the mutual responsibilities of europe and third countries. the contributions paid by the european union in exchange for fishing rights really reach the local populations.
in writing. ‒ the draft council decision concerns the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. the commission has already given a favourable opinion on this. in order to complete the procedure successfully, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is shared and does not contain criticisms. i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ satellite positioning has become essential for socioeconomic prosperity and gnss has already become the backbone of a growing multi-billion euro industry. the increased accuracy and reliability of the system, with its guaranteed and personalised services, will provide a high level of quality of service in the field of global navigation, positioning and time measurement by satellite. the adoption of a single standard for the eu-republic of korea global navigation satellite system (gnss) is a positive step that can improve the efficiency of the movement of citizens and merchant ships, as is often requested by operators in the sector.
in writing. ‒ this agreement associates south korea with the gnss (galileo). similar agreements have already been concluded with other third countries. the northern league has traditionally had a favourable attitude towards galileo, the eu's satellite navigation system interoperable with its us (gps) and russian (glonass) counterparts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because the republic of korea is certainly a country with significant capabilities in the field of space technologies and applications. korea actively uses satellite navigation services in a wide range of sectors, including transport, fleet management, scientific research and geodesy. in this context, i would like to recall that the ultimate objective of the eu-korea agreement is to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation between the parties in the field of global civil satellite navigation. cooperation activities in this particular area include radio spectrum, scientific research and training, industrial cooperation, trade and market development, standards, certification and measures including regulation, enhancement, safety, liability and cost recovery. the main sources of cooperation are the joint research activities in the field of the global navigation satellite system (gnss), both through european and korean programmes. key examples are therefore provided by the european community's framework programme for research and development, the research programmes of the european space agency and programmes organised by the ministries and agencies of korea related to the gnss.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. i voted in favour of this because i believe that such an agreement can only benefit the european union, since the republic of korea is a particularly strong country in terms of technology and this report is aimed at facilitating and improving cooperation in this area. i think that is a point in our favour, in that we are able to make the best use of the strengths not only of the member states but also of third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on new satellite navigation systems, as they represent innovative geo-location technologies that can be successfully used for civilian purposes. this agreement is a major step forward in the development of new technologies and also represents an important step forward in relations between the european union and korea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-korea agreement which encourages, facilitates and strengthens cooperation between the parties in the field of global satellite navigation for civilian use. the agreement will be implemented as part of the european and korean contributions to a global civil satellite navigation system. gnss systems provide good accuracy and integrity control of information for civil navigation uses, so i believe that there is a need for improvement in the exchange of information between the two parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement allowing south korea to be associated with the eu's gnss (galileo) satellite navigation system, which is interoperable with gps and glonass.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this cooperation agreement on gnss with the republic of korea; the agreement is important and will enchant the eus relations with the republic of korea in several key areas of satellite navigations. these areas include cooperation between eu and korean industries, cooperation in the fields of science and research, as well as the development of the market of trade in satellite systems, all which could be of great benefit. deeper international cooperation in satellite navigations could provide large advantages in the long term in sectors such as transportation and science where satellite navigation systems are widely used.
in writing. the subject of today's vote concerns the cooperation agreement with korea on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss). parliament welcomed the conclusion of the agreement negotiated between the eu, the european space agency and eurocontrol, the european organisation for air safety, on the european contribution to the development of a global navigation satellite system (gnss). the aim of the agreement is to establish cooperation between the three parties in order to make a european contribution to the development of a gnss. this effort would put europe in a position to offer a satellite-assisted navigation system which would meet the requirements of civilian users independently of other means of navigation and radio positioning. i am therefore voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the cooperation agreement with korea on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss). such systems, designed to provide a geospatial positioning service with global coverage, allow geolocation at any point on the earth's surface or in the atmosphere with an error of a few metres. the purpose of the report is to improve air cooperation with korea.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the republic of korea have much to cooperate on in the field of civil technology. we're both at the cutting edge of civil space engineering. this agreement will bring us closer together and allow us to improve our technological standards. i am in favour of cooperation and growth alongside the republic of korea, and so i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague, because i believe that the global satellite navigation system is of great importance and utility in ensuring the accurate positioning of civil applications, as well as being an essential element for the socioeconomic development of european industry. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. in line with the opinion already expressed in the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of this report. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-south korea cooperation agreement on the global satellite navigation system, which would make it easier for both sides to move forward with this important project.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy plays a central role in the development of european strategies and objectives. finally, the implementation of the partnership principle, in line with the 2014-2020 strategy, will undoubtedly improve the effectiveness of the implementation of european programmes. two new instruments have been introduced to this end: integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld). while the itil aims to bring together funds from different programmes to make them multidimensional, the clld aims to develop and implement 'bottom-up' strategies for local development. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report, confident that a multi-level approach is necessary for the successful implementation of regional policies.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, eurostat reported that 63 regions in 7 eu member states had unemployment rates between 2.5% and 4.9%, while at the same time 7 member states had rates above 30%. in a highly diversified context such as this, the role of the eu's core objective in the area of territorial cohesion is becoming increasingly evident. to achieve this, the european union has, over the period 2014-2020, put in place a number of innovative instruments to promote territorial governance and economic and social cohesion. these are integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld). the tomašić report, which i supported with my vote today, effectively describes the complexity of the challenges and opportunities offered by these new instruments, particularly highlighting the significant changes they bring both in terms of combining funding flows and planning local initiatives. the european union must commit itself to providing all possible support, training and guidance to ensure that local development strategies have as their priority objectives the fight against youth unemployment and the financing of smes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the approach of the two funds, which envisage starting from the needs of the territories to develop investment policies for local development. however, these financial instruments are difficult to manage and excessively burdensome for local authorities: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion funds are often used inadequately and partially because of the intricate multi-level management that limits and slows down their use. territorial cohesion is a fundamental objective of the eu, enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and its achievement needs to be underpinned by a clear division of responsibilities and an integrated approach to the territory. two new instruments, participatory local development (plc) and integrated territorial investment (iti), were introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period in order to strengthen a bottom-up approach by consolidating synergies between public and private local actors and allowing to identify priority programmes for funding. but the challenges are still many: the eu's external assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe is limited by administrative burdens, management capacities, implementation responsibilities, constraints on eu funding and poor alignment with other development strategies. we must ensure that the financing measures are used to the maximum extent possible and that the bottom-up approach to the management of the funds is strengthened. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that cohesion policy is one of the main growth tools for the european economy and that its role can be further expanded to make it more effective and efficient. i believe it is particularly important to achieve greater coordination between national and local policies and european policies, and that the short- and medium-term objectives to be pursued are to combat youth unemployment and to support smes, the real backbone of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is an essential tool for improving the employment of european citizens, while reducing inequalities, poverty and fostering environmentally friendly and inclusive economic growth. in this context, i welcome the introduction, in the new programming period 2014-2020, of new instruments such as local participatory development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) under the european structural and investment funds. these are new arrangements which, by delegating greater responsibility and management powers to the local level, can help to develop a kind of bottom-up approach which i believe is essential for the full achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy. however, we must work together to facilitate the use of these new mechanisms, in particular by simplifying the administrative burden required and fostering greater cooperation and trust between different levels of government, which is essential to ensure that these instruments deliver real results. it is also necessary for national states and the european institutions to actively intervene to support local actors, who often encounter difficulties in conceiving and implementing local development strategies, in developing and implementing them.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, from the ecr group, considers it difficult to assess the two financial instruments, which came into force with the current mff. although the bottom-up approach of the two funds (i.e. based on the needs of the territories) is positive, it is noted that the two instruments are complicated to manage for local authorities and onerous in administrative terms. the report is critical, although it could have been more so. on that basis, i will abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the new instruments for territorial development in cohesion policy 2014-2020 which calls on the member states to make greater use of the instruments of integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld) for the implementation of the territorial approach of cohesion policies. the bottom-up approach and the participation of local actors are essential elements for the effectiveness of the structural funds and the effective achievement of its objectives. clld also offers opportunities for urban and peri-urban areas and should be an integral part of wider urban development strategies. however, its implementation through a single fund approach may result in missed opportunities in creating more effective local development strategies. as regards itis, they should not be limited to urban areas only, but could concern geographical areas such as metropolitan, urban and rural or cross-border areas. it is essential that local partners play their role as key actors in the preparation of the territorial development strategy, since this instrument allows for the specific territorial needs to be taken into account by determining their scope more flexibly.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses two new instruments of cohesion policy: integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld). the first is a new allocation method designed to combine funds from different priority axes of one or more operational programmes. clld is a tool to be used at sub-regional level and is designed to promote the implementation of local development strategies characterised by a bottom-up approach. i voted in favour of the report. the text analyses the effectiveness and added value of the two instruments, and provides a comprehensive overview of the challenges and possible critical points. the report also stresses the crucial importance of minimising potential conflicts of interest in interactions between public and private actors, and of a non-discriminatory and transparent approach in relations between the european, national and regional levels.
in writing. ‒ participatory local development (pla) and integrated territorial investment (iti) are the new instruments envisaged by cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 to promote integrated strategies for sustainable urban development. the report voted on today in plenary highlighted the weaknesses of the two instruments, which local actors consider to be too complex and require specific skills that are often not available in administrations, especially if they are small. in italy, these instruments concern the four southern regions where, in addition to the objective difficulties encountered by other european regions, there is the problem of programming by supplementing the financial resources provided for by the various structural and investment funds. while i share the view that iti and clld can play an important role in addressing the multiple, closely interlinked challenges facing urban areas (social, demographic, economic and environmental) and that they can therefore only be overcome through an integrated approach, i believe that action is needed to simplify them also in order to reduce administrative costs. i hope that the high-level group set up by the commission will soon be able to identify useful guidelines to promote accessibility by local authorities. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims at a very important objective for the european union, namely cohesion between the various territories. i believe that in order to achieve this objective the report takes account of a fundamental element which i myself have learned over the years of my political work: if we want to achieve strong cohesion, we need a bottom-up approach involving local actors. support is therefore needed at both national and european level with targeted funding. having noted that the report in question takes account of all these elements, which i consider to be fundamental, i voted in favour, hoping to achieve this important goal as soon as possible, for a europe united not only on paper but also in fact.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. by offering the potential to improve employment opportunities, promoting sustainable and inclusive growth and fostering poverty reduction and social inclusion, cohesion policy is shaping up as a tool for territorial development. in this regard, two new instruments have been introduced under the european structural and investment funds in the 2014-2020 programming period to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: participatory local development and integrated territorial investment. i voted in favour of the report, but i also took into account the considerable challenges that integrated territorial investments pose to the implementation by local authorities, who are often unprepared in the management of funding. the eu should therefore encourage the use of integrated, territory-based approaches to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion, while also promoting territorial governance.
in writing. ‒ the tomasic report looks at territorial development strategies and the delegation of responsibilities and resources at decision-making levels in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy programme. the report states that stakeholder involvement can strengthen the integrated and local approach, especially where the use of clld (participatory local development) and iti (integrated territorial investment) is limited. local actors require technical and financial support from the regional, national and european levels, particularly in the early stages of the implementation process. the report also calls on the member states to provide support to smaller local bodies with limited capacity, stressing that the definition of adequate and quality strategies is still a challenge. the report is well done and touches on issues of fundamental importance, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ coordination between local and regional actors in territorial development strategies is an essential element for the success of territorial policies for the development of urban and rural areas. cohesion policy 2014-2020 identified two important tools to foster synergies between the various stakeholders: integrated territorial investment and participatory local development. my vote in favour of this resolution is to support integrated national and regional policies aimed at concrete and sustainable results that meet the objectives identified by the eu programmes. i believe that the smaller and less developed local communities should be given special support, where the lack of resources and skills not only aggravates general phenomena such as youth unemployment, but also makes it more difficult to implement cohesion policy instruments effectively. i am convinced that territorial cohesion starts from the bottom up and that all regions, including the smallest and most remote regions and rural areas, must be able to use the instruments for planning and implementing local development strategies without having to bear the administrative and financial burdens at national, regional and local level.
in writing. ‒ the late adoption of many 2014-2020 operational programmes, the complexity of innovative cohesion policy instruments, iti - integrated territorial investments and clld - participatory local development, implemented for the first time and by only a few member states, do not allow an analysis of their effectiveness and added value. the bottom-up approach and the involvement of local actors are essential to achieving the objectives, but it must be recognised that local actors often lack the capacity to implement development strategies that affect their territory and therefore need adequate support, both at national and european level. in my view, the commission should present a roadmap indicating which states and operational programmes are most at risk of automatically decommitting resources. we also need the late payment directive and the public procurement regulations to be properly applied, so that there is a real balance between simplification and preventive measures against errors and fraud, so as to prevent both misuse of the many billions at our disposal and infiltration by organised crime. my vote on the resolution is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to encourage local actors to use the new instruments for territorial investment. this would ensure better coordination and targeted use of the european structural and investment funds. it will therefore be important to provide for ad hoc activities to bring these instruments closer to local actors so that they can effectively participate in the development strategies of their territory.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the instruments in question are complicated for local authorities to manage and the report in question is not sufficiently critical.
in writing. ‒ i support these new cohesion policy instruments as they will give new tools to the eu in order to provide local actors and governments with better funding for crucial development projects, part of the cohesion policy. this ‘bottom-up’ approach to development and financing is crucial if the eu is to achieve the objectives of the cohesion policy and we must face all the challenges that these instruments will face in the short term. i believe that the cohesion policy must be a constantly evolving programme to face our modern challenges and i hope that these new instruments can play their part in this. it is very important to overcome any lack of administrative capacity on the side of local actors and then proceed with addressing our changing realities; changing demographics and high unemployment, especially among youths.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution of the ep on the new instruments for territorial development in cohesion policy 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld), as i believe that the active involvement of regional and local organisations is crucial for the full implementation of economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, and i am convinced that innovative approaches that promote local knowledge and aim at local solutions are needed to tackle local problems. in other words, we need economic, social and territorial cohesion policy more than ever to tackle the territorial imbalances that still exist between the various regions of europe and to give the poorest and most disadvantaged regions the opportunity to converge towards higher levels of growth and income and to move towards those of the richer regions. i believe that it is in the interest of the european single market to have regions which do not differ too much from one another, because competition in the global economy with the stronger countries can only be sustained if europe has less inequality within itself. at the same time, we need to involve local actors more and more in the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report which envisages the establishment of new instruments for territorial development in cohesion policy 2014-2020. territorial cohesion is one of the eu's key objectives, supported by integrated approaches that improve the efficiency of public intervention in the territory. in this respect, the framework of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) introduced two new measures to achieve the objectives of territorial cohesion. these new instruments provide for local participatory development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti). the report to be voted on today aims to analyse the programming and implementation of the clld and the iti, identifying the main problems they face and possible recommendations for better implementation of these instruments. in putting these measures into practice we want to allow for greater participation by local members and thus promote an approach that starts right in our communities and leads, in the long run, to the achievement of our common objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on new instruments for territorial development in cohesion policy 2014-2020. cohesion policy and territorial cohesion are among the european union's priority objectives enshrined in the lisbon treaty. in the framework of the european structural and investment funds, two new instruments have been introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: participatory local development (clld), a new instrument to be used at subregional level, and integrated territorial investments (iti), used to achieve the objective of sustainable urban development, as well as being used for other types of territory.
in writing. ‒ the bottom-up approach to territorial development requires more support from the eu level, as well as from regional and national governments. as the report says, local actors need better funding and technology to be more effective in their actions. the eu should encourage the exchange of good practice between european regions. in the end, job creation is the most important issue along with support for smes in underdeveloped regions. in too many of these regions, young people and women are hampered by a lack of education and opportunities, so this should be our first priority when working in these regions. i voted in favour of the report because all the issues mentioned are addressed.
in writing. ‒ the harmonious development of the union by strengthening its economic, social and territorial integration is a central objective of the eu's cohesion policy. the allocation by the european regional development fund (erdf) of a budget of 5% of the expenditure (eur 16 billion) for the introduction of two new instruments in the 2014-2020 programming period is a step in the right direction and i therefore voted in favour of it. on the one hand, local participatory development (clld) with the aim of strengthening synergies between local actors, both public and private, on the other hand, integrated territorial investments (iti) that can be used to achieve the objective of sustainable urban development, as well as being used for other types of territory. two important initiatives towards ever closer cooperation between local actors and an incentive to a bottom-up approach to cohesion policies. our commitment at european level to implement these instruments together with local actors and to strengthen their capacities, while respecting their national constraints, cannot be undermined. i therefore hope that these instruments will become increasingly important in the practice of cohesion policy in the future.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the proposal by mrs tomašić, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour, as i believe that the adoption of an integrated territorial approach is a particularly valuable tool for the development of european cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. i am convinced that these approaches will make it possible to pay particular attention to the specific features of the territory and to attract more investment. i also believe that focusing on local, bottom-up development can be particularly beneficial in enhancing the role of local and regional actors. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to devise new strategies involving local and regional actors who need to be given technical and financial support in the context of an effective partnership between the regions, the member states and the eu. the interest in an integrated approach on a territorial basis is supported by the new cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, and is important for the purpose of greater flexibility of eu programmes and better use of european funds allocated in a manner consistent with local specificities, in order to achieve sustainable economic outcomes and to address structural problems, first and foremost youth unemployment. the commission and the member states should provide additional support, training and guidance to smaller and less developed local actors, who have more limited resources and capacity and for whom the administrative burden and complexity of implementing these instruments may be difficult to manage in the planning and implementation phases.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period places greater emphasis on the use of integrated approaches based on the needs of territories to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. the new erdf regulation provides for 5% of its budget to be allocated to sustainable urban development. two new instruments have been introduced under the european structural and investment funds to achieve this objective: the local community-led development (clld). as mentioned earlier, it is expected that around 5% of the cohesion policy budget (around eur 16 billion) will be used for these instruments. if the objectives of cohesion policy are to have the desired effect, adequate economic support at european level is needed, especially for the most remote and disadvantaged areas such as islands and mountain areas. i voted in favour of the report and i hope that instruments such as the iti and the clld will play an increasingly central role.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, together with the ppe group, which focuses on the evaluation of two instruments available to the union's territorial cohesion policies. the report calls for the involvement of local authorities (not only metropolitan but also rural) from the earliest stages of allocating resources and planning investment, following a bottom-up, bottom-up approach.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014-2020 programming period, it is important to promote the full and efficient use of the new instruments for territorial development which can help to improve coordination and ensure the most targeted use of the european structural and investment funds. i therefore hope that the debate on the future of cohesion policy will devote more space to integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld) in order to effectively combine funding flows and plan targeted local initiatives. i have spoken in favour of the report which makes some recommendations on the future of clld and iti. we should not underestimate the administrative burden and complexity of implementing these instruments, which are often difficult to manage, especially for smaller local authorities. i therefore hope that the commission and the member states will work to make these tools as visible and understandable as possible to their users, while avoiding unnecessary red tape and making further efforts to simplify rules and procedures.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion, as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, is recognised as a fundamental objective of the european union. i think it is essential that they increase their efforts to make people aware of the possibilities it offers local authorities. unfortunately, local authorities underestimate the potential of these programmes and do not implement development strategies that would enable the territories to develop and grow. and this is despite the financial possibilities. if we are to ensure that these instruments have the desired effect, support needs to be provided at both national and european level through targeted information activities. i believe that the bottom-up approach and the participation of all actors are essential to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and there is a great deal of room for improvement in our action in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion funds. i particularly appreciated the request to the european commission to publicise and simplify access to the financial resources made available to local authorities, starting with the funds for integrated territorial investment (iti) and participatory local development (clld). in this context, the problem of the lack of competent actors in european policies at local level must be addressed. to this end, it is proposed to evaluate the design of concrete incentives to stimulate member states to implement clld and iti, together with potential tools to ensure greater coherence between operational programmes, clld and iti. i particularly welcome the attention paid to the younger generations in the report: it is essential to include young people among the target groups of territorial development instruments. an impressive number of young people (14 million) are not in employment and not in education or training (neet), while youth unemployment rates have exceeded 50% in some member states. clld with a particular focus on young people can be a cohesive factor between generations in communities and can allow new career paths to be developed.
in writing. ‒ the regulation concerns community balance of payments statistics in the light of the new tfeu with the aim of giving the european commission greater powers. all the amendments to promote transparency and cooperation were included in the final compromises, but were removed in trilogues, effectively making the regulation out of line with the current needs of open government. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the development of reliable statistics is a key element in ensuring the consistency of the economic policies of the eu member states with the community's legal framework and economic governance system. the monitoring of economic developments within the union is carried out through a general framework based on regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments (bp) statistics, international trade in services (iss) and foreign direct investment (fdi). the giegold report, which i have supported today, has effectively tackled the problem of the revision of regulation 184/2005 by linking it to the increasing complexity of international financial flows. the text adopted indicates two priorities in particular: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european statistical office. the commission's overall priority must be to strengthen cooperation with other international organisations providing economic statistics, such as the imf and the oecd, in order to establish a comprehensive system which will provide increasingly reliable statistics for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the giegold report, which updates the legislation on delegated and implementing acts conferred on the european commission. i believe that the eu legislation on the collection of macroeconomic data, a field which is often subject to manipulation of statistics, needs to be completely reviewed, in line with the guidelines set out by the union institutions. i consider the commission, an institution outside democratic and citizen control, to be unable to guarantee the transparency of statistical processing. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today aims to revise regulation 184/2005 and has a twofold objective: to improve the quality and standardisation of community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. such harmonisation is of fundamental importance in order to formulate correct and effective economic forecasts and, consequently, to allow for better management of macroeconomic imbalances and of any future crises. i welcome the fact that, in promoting the collection of increasingly reliable and comparable data, the report supports greater coordination between eurostat and the other international organisations which provide most of the statistics in this field, such as the oecd and the international monetary fund, as well as further differentiation with regard to foreign direct investment in particular. in this respect, the distinction between greenfield investment flows, which give rise to real gross investment and generate new opportunities, and mere acquisitions, which only change the ownership of pre-existing economic activities, is certainly a positive one. the revised text will therefore provide more valuable data, allowing better traceability and understanding of flows, and thus of economic and trade trends in an increasingly globalised world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the union should have the most up-to-date and accurate statistics, which will enable it to devise and implement its policies in the most appropriate way to the current fluid and multifaceted reality.
in writing. ‒ the regulation in question, as its title suggests, concerns eu statistics on certain performance of the member states. it is a matter of course, almost a text to be overlooked without paying too much attention. the problem, however, is that our delegation is sceptical of the powers delegated to the ec, the real european institution, which is far from democratic control and far from the citizens. we can also say that we are not particularly keen on the conflict between the ep and the council over the use of delegated acts (which parliament normally prefers) or implementing acts (which are more in the interests of the council). the basic problem for the league is the lack of confidence in the work of the ec and the fact that, in such a sensitive area as the collection of macroeconomic data, there is very frequent politically fraudulent or self-interested use of the interpretation of numbers and data flows. the issue of 'manipulation' of statistics is, in our view, central. the council has succeeded in including some additional guarantees of transparency in the final agreement, but overall this is still a measure which i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the revision of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 represents a real opportunity to increase the transparency and granularity of balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. i believe that an update should also be made to ensure alignment with the rules laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). it is therefore necessary to take full advantage of recent legal innovations and to make these statistics an increasingly reliable instrument for supporting economic policy decisions. my vote in favour is also due to the need to strengthen reporting and publication requirements to provide a better overview of gross capital flows. the benefit that can be derived from recent innovations, such as the international legal entity identifier (lei code), part of the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) framework for improving the transmission of financial information for tax purposes, is not of secondary importance.
in writing. ‒ the measure aims to amend the regulation on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment in the light of the new provisions of the tfeu. therefore, the main objective is to give the european commission more powers in the issuing of delegated and implementing acts. i abstained because, although the final text of the econ committee accepted all our amendments, it was completely distorted in the trilogues. the final text also provides for the creation of a new executive agency of the commission and thus a further waste of public money from the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ statistics are a key tool for economic policy decisions, and their reliability is crucial to the ability to anticipate the emergence of new financial crises in the future. it has been shown that in 2008 poor quality statistics underestimated the scale of the crisis that would have hit our economies hard. the updating of the existing regulation on the eu statistical framework for balance of payments, international trade in services and direct investment, adopted in plenary, is essential in particular to verify and monitor developments in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the union, which have intensified in recent years and become more complex and difficult to analyse. eurostat's cooperation with international organisations such as the oecd and the international monetary fund (imf) should also be strengthened and the evaluation of the quality of national contributions to statistics should be publicly disseminated. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of amending the regulation because it introduces measures to improve and make statistics more transparent at european level, which will also allow us to understand better the impact of direct investment on employment.
in writing. ‒ the statistics in the report are clear: i think this amendment should be seen as a positive opportunity to increase transparency and to take advantage of recent legal innovations and to make these statistics a more reliable instrument for economic policy decisions. it is in line with these objectives, which the report itself seeks to achieve, that i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the production of reliable statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is essential in order to monitor developments in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. statistics in these areas help to ensure the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the broad guidelines of the union, as well as with the legal obligations arising from the community economic governance framework. international financial flows have intensified and become more complex, and in particular the increased use of vehicle companies and legal arrangements for the transfer of both incoming and outgoing capital flows has made it more difficult to monitor these flows to ensure their proper traceability and to avoid double or multiple accounting, thus making it more difficult to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. i therefore voted in favour of the regulation on the harmonization of community statistics in the field of taxation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the production of reliable statistics in areas such as balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is essential, especially to monitor developments in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. therefore, the availability of reliable statistics becomes important for the purpose of the process of monitoring macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report which does not consider the risk of 'manipulation' of statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on economic statistics on the basis that statistics is of huge importance in a large number of areas. the results of this resolution would give a more accurate and detailed view in regard to economic developments and financial flows in the member states. very importantly this would in turn indirectly lead to a more accurate view for policy makers of what decisions need to be addressed in the economy. i also support the report’s proposal that eurostat should deepen its cooperation with other financial institutions that produce statistics, such as the imf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement with the council on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. i believe that high quality and comparable statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment (fdi) are essential for eu policy-makers, researchers and all european citizens. i therefore supported the need to empower the commission (eurostat) to take all necessary measures to allow easy and user-friendly online access to data sets and to provide users with an intuitive presentation of the data. this type of statistics is of fundamental importance in ensuring the informed formulation of economic policies and the correct formulation of economic forecasts. i shared the position, supported by the ep, to update the levels of geographical breakdown, the levels of breakdown by institutional sector and the levels of breakdown by economic activity provided that such updates do not affect the reporting burden or change the applicable underlying conceptual framework. i also share the need to give the ecb more consultative powers.
in writing. with regard to balance of payments (bp) statistics, international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi), eu intervention is aimed at monitoring economic developments in individual member states but also in the european union as a whole. the aim of this proposal is to amend the regulation to adapt it to the new institutional context. the problem arises from the emerging conflict between the ecb and the commission on statistics. in the previous system, the ecb was consulted on matters within its competence, whereas the commission's proposal seeks to exclude the ecb from obtaining relevant statistics. i therefore believe that the revision of this regulation represents an opportunity to increase the transparency and flow of statistics in relation to the olaf, the sis and the fdi, and thus to make it possible to benefit from these instruments in a clearer and more reliable way.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the implementation of certain measures. that regulation aims to monitor economic developments in each member state and in the union. the revision of the regulation therefore provides an opportunity to increase transparency and statistics on the olaf, sis and fdi.
in writing. ‒ as the world economy grows, the eu needs to increase its data collection capacity to monitor developments. in the wake of the panama papers, we need to learn more about the phenomenon of tax evasion and fraud. in particular, i support the mention of the relationship between transparency and traceability, which are fundamental to our liberal democracies. we also need to strengthen the role of eurostat in monitoring cooperation with international organisations such as the oecd and the imf. eurostat is the instrument through which the european union keeps track of these developments, so we should provide the tools necessary for its proper functioning.
in writing. ‒ we welcome regulation no 184/2005 on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics as part of the eu's overall framework for monitoring economic developments in each member state and in the union as a whole. the production of reliable statistics in these areas is essential, especially to verify key aspects such as developments in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. they therefore help to ensure that the economic policies of the member states are consistent with the broad guidelines of the union, as well as with the legal obligations arising from the eu economic governance framework. more specifically, the availability of reliable statistics is essential for the monitoring process established under the macroeconomic imbalance procedures. the revision of the regulation represents a genuine opportunity to increase the transparency and granularity of statistics and to take advantage of recent legal innovations and make statistics a more reliable tool for economic policy decisions. secondly, the regulation needs to be updated to ensure its alignment with the rules contained in the tfeu, by conferring on the commission the necessary powers to adopt delegated and/or implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 for monitoring economic developments and financial flows in the member states of the union, and given that since the adoption of the regulation there has been an increase in financial flows within and outside the eu, and that this situation makes it more difficult to monitor these flows, i believe that an amendment of this regulation is necessary in order to make it more adapted to the current situation and to increase transparency. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the production of reliable statistics on balance of payments (bdp), international trade in services (sis) and foreign direct investment (fdi) is essential to monitor developments in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu. the revision of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 therefore represents a genuine opportunity to increase the transparency and effectiveness of statistics on the olaf, sis and etias, and to take advantage of recent legal innovations. i believe that making such statistics a more reliable tool is of fundamental importance in enabling public authorities to take the most appropriate economic policy decisions. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the vote of the committee responsible and in line with the orientation of the ppe group, i voted in favour of this report. it is responsible for monitoring three important indicators of the union's economic development (balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment). the report therefore seizes the opportunity to redefine the regulation on these statistical parameters to emphasise the publication and transparency obligations and the legal guarantees necessary to ensure their reliable and correct use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on balance of payments statistics, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. the poor quality of economic indicators was one of the causes of the financial crisis of 2008. it is therefore important to further harmonise statistical indicators at european level and to improve data collection. the aim of this proposal is to harmonise the statistical indices relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. i am convinced that this is an important step towards better anticipation of future crises.
in writing. ‒ the text we voted on is nothing more than an update of a regulation on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment in the light of the new tfeu with the aim of giving the european commission more powers of delegated and implementing acts. in the econ committee, the text received amendments for improvement, which involved greater control and better transparency. however, the progress made by the european parliament was eliminated in the trilogues, since the council succeeded in eliminating almost all the innovations that had been introduced in the text. in order to assist the commission, it has also been envisaged to set up an additional agency (balance of payments committee) which, in my view, represents a further waste of public money from the union. for this reason and because of the disappointing results of the negotiations with the council, i chose to abstain during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ in the development of cohesion policies, the issue of mountain regions deserves particular attention. this is a large proportion of european territories whose growth and sustainable development opportunities are severely limited by undeniable structural difficulties. the resolution calls for the development of an action plan to combat ageing, a declining quality of life, depopulation and social exclusion. while the reference to the key role of smes in the process of sustainable development and economic growth is admirable, the same cannot be said of the reference to financial instruments. in view of the specific characteristics of these territories and the fact that the effectiveness of the efsi has not yet been demonstrated, i decided to abstain from voting, hoping that the proposed strategies will be improved in the future.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions are an area that is fundamental to the economic, social and sustainable development of many member states and, in general, a source of ecosystem services that are essential for the whole union. the iotova report, which i supported with my vote today, focuses on the need to define the terms 'mountain region' and 'regional policy' precisely, in order to move effectively towards the implementation of a concrete policy proposal for these emerging regions. despite occupying 30% of the eu's territory, they are rarely considered today in cohesion policy and national policies, often also because of the additional costs arising from chronic infrastructure deficiencies and their peripheral location. a change of perspective is needed, starting with the establishment of an eu mountain agenda and an increase in esi funds for underdeveloped mountain regions. increased connectivity and accessibility, together with a strong investment in renewable energy, can make europe's mountains real centres of green growth. only by creating these new catalysts for sustainable development within the eu can we stop the depopulation of our mountains and make them more suitable places to live and work.
in writing. ‒ the text voted on is open to all and free of criticism, and includes an exhaustive list of policies and actions to support mountain communities and territories. our mountains are in dire need of more attention from the eu to protect and enhance the immense human, cultural and economic heritage that these particular territories represent. i therefore intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the richness of natural resources and the invaluable agricultural and manufacturing heritage of mountain areas represent a huge resource for the european union, both in environmental and employment terms. we can think of the abundance of renewable energy sources or the opportunities for developing quality green jobs, offering sustainable economic development to mountain areas. unfortunately, the lack of infrastructure and the high costs of living in these areas make it difficult to invest in them. it is therefore necessary to include these areas in a 'regional strategy' covering surrounding areas and urban areas within cohesion policy, so that the next programming period of eu funding is managed in a more integrated and efficient way than the current one. i therefore voted in favour of the report, which aims to provide better conditions, compensatory measures and support for farmers, producers, businesses and people in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the union adopt a targeted strategy for the eu's mountain regions, which represent 30% of the eu's territory and one of its main biodiversity basins, to enable them to be safeguarded and developed sustainably.
in writing. ‒ a significant part of europe's territory (about 30%) is made up of mountain regions. these are highly sensitive areas, with unique and contrasting characteristics, which require special attention: while they suffer from problems of peripheral location, depopulation, ageing of the population and a particular territorial configuration, which places major constraints on many economic and productive activities, they make a fundamental contribution, through their rich ecosystems, to the fight against climate change and the protection of biodiversity. in addition, precisely in response to these problems and their management, mountain areas can become - and in some cases already are - privileged laboratories for promoting the development of new practices capable of combining economic well-being and ecological sustainability. in this sense, in accordance with article 174 (3) tfeu, i believe that all eu policies should provide for a specific new approach that takes account of their particularities. in addition, in order to respond adequately to the needs of mountain regions, the coordination of the various policies and programmes (cap, natura 2000, horizon 2020, etc.) that have an impact on these territories needs to be strengthened, increasing the funds available to them and promoting the creation of macro-regional strategies.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is a long and exhaustive list of policies and actions for mountain people and mountain areas in general. the report does not contain any criticisms worthy of note and we also find positive references to the alpine macro-region. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy which calls for a strategy for the 'mountain regions' too, following on from what has already been done for the macro-regions and the alpine region, which allows for an integrated and coordinated approach to the use of the funds available. the report calls, first of all, for a definition of 'mountain region'. the current definition of 'mountain' was conceived mainly in the context of agricultural policy and therefore takes into account only certain aspects. a definition is needed which allows a global approach. secondly, there is a call for an agenda for the eu's mountain regions. many policies have been developed that indirectly concern mountain regions, but only a specific agenda could provide an even more targeted framework for cohesion policy and lay the foundations for a territorial approach for the next programming period. finally, great emphasis was also placed on the issues of connectivity and accessibility of mountain regions, often isolated, which can only become more attractive for living in or for sme settlement if it is possible to envisage and achieve growth that is at the same time smart, sustainable and inclusive.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the issue of cohesion for the eu's mountain regions by highlighting the specific challenges and opportunities of these territories. there are several aspects of the text which we agree with, such as the call on the commission to present an agenda for mountain regions in the wake of the urban agenda. it also calls for a definition of the term 'mountain regions', which is still absent and often the basis for choices in the programming of the funds. finally, the reference to the fundamental role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the development of mountain regions, the role of social enterprise and alternative business models for inclusive development and environmental protection should also be appreciated. despite the many positive aspects, i have decided to abstain on the report, as i have noted some important shortcomings. i am referring, among other things, to the presence of far too positive references to financial instruments or forms of public-private partnership, since the lack of economies of scale would make the provision of such services unattractive from a commercial point of view.
in writing. ‒ due to the specific characteristics of their geographical location, mountain regions face difficulties and challenges that are not fully covered by the union's policies, and in particular by cohesion policy, which should, instead, help more than others to limit and overcome territorial disadvantages. what is lacking are specific objectives and instruments more suited to the particular needs of the territory. the request to the european commission to draw up an agenda for the eu's mountain regions arises from the need to have a specific framework on which to develop cohesion policy, and to adapt the european structural and investment funds accordingly in the next programming period. it is undeniable that these areas are facing serious difficulties, mainly due to the lack of accessibility, infrastructure, connectivity and human resources. moreover, the development needs of smes in mountain areas are not compatible with those indicated in european programmes such as horizon 2020 or cosme, in which they are unable to participate. the commission must therefore proceed as soon as possible to identify a specific strategy to take account of the mountain dimension in future european programmes and policies. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to respond to an obvious territorial problem, namely to alleviate the difficulties faced by european mountain areas both because of the lack of infrastructure and because of their peripheral location. the answer is to improve cohesion between the various mountain regions in europe through targeted investment to protect the great natural wealth that mountains represent on the one hand and jobs throughout the union on the other. indeed, mountain areas have much to offer, including employment! i therefore voted in favour of this report, which i believe lays a solid foundation for better social, economic and territorial cohesion, offering sustainable economic development to mountain areas.
in writing. ‒ given the size of the eu's mountain regions, insufficient attention is paid to the difficulties of investing in mountain areas due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs of peripheral location. given that mountain regions offer a number of opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources, i believe it is necessary to give priority to the territorial dimension of cohesion policy through targeted initiatives for territorial development and additional support for territorial cooperation at european level. moreover, by virtue of the abundance and variety of renewable energy sources and their dependence on resource and energy efficiency, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and to innovation more generally. i voted in favour also because of the particular nature of mountain areas and the ecosystems that characterise them, and because it is therefore necessary to promote measures to protect the representative species of the high mountains. a coordinated approach is essential in whatever form it is implemented, in order to ensure that eu funding is strategically directed towards achieving sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions play an essential role in the economic, social and sustainable development of the member states: can contribute to the development of new technologies and increase the use of renewable energy; manage ecosystems with specificities in terms of biodiversity; their activities have a crucial impact on many economic sectors. this wealth exposes mountain areas to specific needs and significant challenges, including the scarcity of usable land, climate change, off-season employment and environmental protection. i therefore support the resolution's vision of a specific european policy for the eu's mountain regions, taking account of their structural disadvantages and proposing transnational and interregional strategies to turn these disadvantages into opportunities and territorial development. in particular, i hope that the new european agenda for the development of mountain regions will take account of the shortcomings of local smes in terms of infrastructure, connectivity and human resources, providing effective instruments to encourage a multi-faceted agricultural production linked to the development of tourism and environmental protection activities, and to strengthen sectors such as forestry which can create new employment opportunities, as well as the preservation of forest resources.
in writing. ‒ in my experience as president of the florentine mountain community, i have experienced firsthand the difficulties mountain areas have in attracting investment, due to the lack of infrastructure and the significant additional costs due to their geographical peculiarities. the union should define a clearer and more coordinated approach within its cohesion policy in order to target the funding that is available more efficiently: i am thinking in particular of horizon 2020, the european fund for strategic investments and the eu broadband strategy. these funding programmes should focus more on the needs of the less developed mountain regions and should be directed towards supporting smes, particularly agricultural smes, operating in those areas. this is why we need to draw up as soon as possible a 'european agenda for mountain regions' which sets out an integrated and comprehensive strategic framework for the sustainable economic development of these areas and which puts mountain regions back at the centre of our political agenda. i have supported this report precisely because it provides an effective summary of the measures which the european union will have to implement in the coming years to revive mountain regions and increase their capacity to attract investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the development of mountain regions can help to improve social, economic and territorial cohesion, promoting employment and sustainable growth. the report stresses the need for a more integrated approach to the different policies and funding at eu level. the creation of a genuine european mountain agenda would provide an even more targeted framework for cohesion policy and could also serve as a basis for a broader strategy for the development of mountain regions and the progressive reduction of poverty and social exclusion. finally, the report has the advantage of highlighting the fundamental issue of linking mountain regions to surrounding areas and to urban areas.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which, through a series of policies, is helping mountain people and mountain areas in general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the report that mountainous regions have unfortunately been somewhat neglected in the eu’s cohesion policy. residing and doing business and other activities in mountainous regions in many cases involve several difficulties and additional costs where local actors could use eu support. these additional costs come from many things, one example being additional transport costs due to lack of infrastructure and the natural remoteness of mountainous regions. in the effort to keep our mountainous regions vibrant and alive we must work towards promoting businesses and employment in those areas and for this goal the eu’s cohesion policy should play its part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep non-legislative resolution on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions, because cohesion policy, while focusing on the territorial dimension, has so far neglected mountains as such and has demanded that member states pay attention to mountains and the challenges associated with them. this has fuelled the difficulty of investing in mountain areas due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs of peripheral location, and consequently mountain regions have so far received insufficient attention. i strongly agreed with the need to define the term 'mountain' in regional policy, and this in the context of a european approach to the problem. so far, such a definition has appeared in the european agricultural fund for rural development and is designed for agriculture, since it takes into account a shorter growing cycle and the impossibility of using machinery due to the slope of the soil. i also supported the need to develop a concrete policy proposal for mountain regions, through the introduction of an agenda for the eu's mountain regions. it could also serve as a basis for a broader strategy for the development of mountain regions by promoting a coordinated approach.
in writing. this topic deals with exemptions for freight forwarders. the commission proposed a single review for both commodity dealers and the prudential supervision of investment firms. this review procedure is very complex, to the point that it cannot be completed by the end of the year, and therefore it seems unlikely that any legislation can emerge from this procedure in a short time. the commission has also examined whether the exemptions from the crr are proportionate to the risks that the investment firm faces in relation to the provision of its services to clients. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. the mountain regions do not receive sufficient attention to the problem of lack of infrastructure and their peripheral location (therefore additional costs). however, the eu's mountains would contribute to the achievement of objectives such as the 2020 strategy (for renewable energy) and are therefore of considerable importance. the heritage and great wealth of natural resources in these areas would offer green jobs, which can improve employment in the eu and combat climate change. sustainable economic development of mountain areas can improve territorial, economic and social cohesion. sustainable growth within the eu can be provided by the mountains themselves as they are centres of green growth.
in writing. ‒ the issues in mountain regions mentioned in the report are also specific to the mountain regions of italy, particularly those in the south, where the problems of development and inequality are most acute. people in these regions do not receive enough support and are at risk of losing their habits, even though they form the backbone of italy (also in a geographical sense). i welcome the attention paid to the relationship with smes and the situation of gender equality in mountain regions. the mountain environment poses specific challenges for smes and so we need to find solutions to support these enterprises and share best practice. and, most importantly, i supported the resolution for its support for the next generation. we cannot let this thousand-year-old tradition and culture die; to keep them alive, we need to support education, training, and job creation in these regions.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions have rarely been at the centre of cohesion policies in the european union. by focusing on the territorial dimension alone, cohesion policies have often underestimated the specificities of mountain areas, defined only by their rural dimension and without making a distinction between developed and underdeveloped areas. the specific nature of mountain areas makes it all the more necessary to develop targeted cohesion policies, in the full belief that such investment can contribute to achieving the objectives set, moreover, by the europe 2020 strategy. the wealth of these areas, which has so far been only partially exploited, can become an opportunity for new, quality and sustainable jobs, which enhance local traditions and knowledge, and contribute to mitigating climate change. mountain regions, europe's green lungs, can thus become the catalyst for new projects of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic development. i therefore strongly support the eu's mountain agenda as an indispensable tool for a coordinated and strategic approach. the agenda is a coordinated framework for eu policies, starting with the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union. territorial cohesion is an important component of the tfeu but, despite its great opportunity, it is still not fully implemented. in this context, it is necessary to put mountain areas back at the centre of cohesion policies. they can be one of the best ways of achieving the objectives set by the european union in the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, cohesion policy takes on even more important features when looking at the potential impact it could have on increasing employment in mountain areas, especially in the green economy sector, thus contributing to the fight against climate change. sustainable development must start first with mountain areas, which are still protected environments and must be able to adapt to a global market while maintaining the characteristics and specificities of the territory. mountain areas are often rich in renewable energy sources which are not fully exploited. cohesion policies in mountain regions must be able to allow the development of alternative energy sources by financing the construction and maintenance of these facilities.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the proposal of my colleague, i thought it appropriate to give a favourable opinion. i think it is clear and fully acceptable that mountain regions should be included in the union's cohesion policy in order to promote sustainable development and social inclusion in these regions as well. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal on the basis of the foregoing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that mountain issues should be given greater importance in the policies of the european union, recognising their enormous potential. the union must therefore support access to these areas, develop a focus on environmental protection and an approach to overcoming common challenges, in particular in terms of connectivity and accessibility. mountain regions should also be seen as a source of resources to be used to improve a number of crucial areas such as employment, renewable energy, social, economic and territorial cohesion. as centres of green growth, mountains themselves can act as catalysts for sustainable growth within the eu. however, in order to achieve the objectives of the protection, development and use of mountain areas, the union needs to establish an agenda for mountain regions and to include these issues in the future guidelines of the union's environmental and territorial policies.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mountain regions are rarely the focus of cohesion policy, due to the difficulty of investing in their areas, the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs of peripheral location. the richness of natural resources and cultural heritage of mountain areas can provide important job opportunities that can increase employment within the eu. furthermore, a development of the many strengths of mountain regions could lead to an improvement in the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the whole continent. this report calls for an eu mountain agenda and specifies the aspects that should be taken into account. it focuses on three types of growth the union is aiming for: smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth. in mountain regions these growth patterns are interconnected. mountain areas are already a desirable living space and, with increased eu support for connectivity and accessibility, could become more attractive places for smes to live or set up. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the particular situation of mountain regions within the union, where the handicaps of an infrastructural, economic and social nature are accompanied by a potential for agricultural and tourist development. the report proposes that, apart from these handicaps, development for mountain regions should be seen as a contribution to the achievement of the union's strategic development objectives, through the mobilisation of the european structural investment funds and the encouragement of public-private partnerships. in accordance with the general thrust of the report, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it has the merit of bringing the spotlight back to the eu's mountain regions, analysing the critical elements of their development and their potential from the point of view of employment, economic growth, the social dimension and environmental issues and the fight against climate change. unfortunately, there is no genuine european approach to mountain regions today: in order to address the common challenges facing these areas, it is necessary to provide first and foremost for greater coordination of the strategies and measures concerned, by strengthening synergies between existing instruments and by taking into account the mountain dimension in the formulation and evaluation of eu policies. only in this way will it be possible to target and concentrate funds and interventions more effectively and to define a reference framework for identifying the development priorities of these regions in the framework of the 2014-2020 programming.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a very important investment instrument in the european union, offering opportunities for citizens, businesses and local and regional authorities to invest in development and certainly contributing to the recovery of growth after the economic crisis. as the report points out, this policy must pay particular attention to mountain regions, to make the most of their particular features and to enable them, through targeted investment, to increase the services available, thus promoting development and limiting depopulation. the full involvement of local authorities in mountain regions also requires greater european integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions. this report highlights how mountain regions, which have rarely been the subject of cohesion policies, can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of these policies. the natural resources of these regions can provide many jobs, particularly in the renewable energy sector, helping to combat climate change. the wide variety of renewable energy sources can help europe meet the eu's renewable energy targets. in addition, eu funds can help reduce poverty and social exclusion in less developed regions. the report calls for an agenda for mountain regions and for their inclusion in future eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ this report on mountain communities is quite good in most of its paragraphs, but it contains criticisms that have made me inclined to abstain. it is worthwhile to invite the commission to present a concrete policy proposal for mountain regions, stressing that they are structurally disadvantaged, to the point that many of them are faced with depopulation and ageing of the population, a lowering of the quality of life, the associated increase in unemployment, social exclusion and migration to the cities. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the supervision of the implementation of community law is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the call for states to create incentives for more active development of public-private partnerships in the field of transport, communications and energy infrastructure is particularly problematic, as the lack of economies of scale would make the provision of these services commercially unattractive. i also find it problematic to urge national authorities to facilitate the implementation of transport connectivity projects in these regions with the major transnational corridors and roads using european funds and financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for cohesion policies to focus more on mountain areas in europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the regions, and i am pleased to say that the commission is working on this. at present, some mountain areas are facing problems such as depopulation, changes in the ecosystem and the resulting hydrogeological disasters, and it is a priority to find a solution to these problems. i particularly appreciate the paragraphs in the resolution which stress the great opportunity that mountain regions represent for the whole of europe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the third sector. they are also a major source of renewable energy and raw materials. the creation of new jobs in the green economy should therefore be one of the investment priorities of policies. an eco-sustainable approach could be applied to mountain agriculture, sustainable tourism, handicrafts, forestry and renewable energy technologies, creating new jobs.
in writing. ‒ this is an important measure we are discussing, which brings our parliament even closer to the territories, especially the less developed ones, which are in dire need of specific management policies. the mountain regions in particular can and must become a wealth of our europe. we must avoid depopulation, especially in rural areas. more generally, we must continue to support cohesion policies, which, because of their importance, must remain at the heart of our funding choices.
in writing. the peculiar conformation of mountain regions means that they face structural disadvantages. the increase in unemployment in these areas is encouraging migration to the cities and hence the mountain regions are experiencing a high rate of depopulation. in order to combat these phenomena, this report asks the commission to define what is meant by 'mountain regions' and to review on this basis the programming of funds which are too often unbalanced in favour of large urban centres. thanks to an amendment of the m5s, small and medium-sized enterprises are given a central role in the development of mountain regions. good practices such as e-commerce and the use of digital marketing channels can contribute to the economic diversification of these regions, bringing wealth and employment. i would point out, however, that there are critical points in the report, particularly where financial instruments and forms of public-private partnership are concerned, which are mainly needed to boost mountain economies. i am not convinced by the interest shown in such instruments, which seem more concerned with purely economic aspects than with the real social and environmental development of the territory. these criticisms have led me to abstain.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. meanwhile, the world has changed. in just over a month's time, on june 23rd, there will be a major referendum in the united kingdom. europe is in the throes of the worst crisis since the war. but here we are, still here, in a sort of remake of a bad movie we've seen. something is wrong, colleagues, and i want to make it clear that this has only one name: it's called therapeutic bullying against the greek people. the greeks have honoured their commitments in the memorandum. eurostat, as commissioner moscovici pointed out, told us a few weeks ago that the greek public accounts are even better than expected. many reforms have been made. of course, we must remain vigilant and make sure that everything is done, in particular the reform of the public administration and the judicial sector. i disagree with mr weber on one point: for me, the problem today is not athens, the problem is called the international monetary fund. the problem is the extremists, who in the name of a vindictive vision want to punish greece and invent the concept of preventive austerity, that is, the idea that the greeks three years in advance must approve measures which, as the international monetary fund itself has acknowledged, would kill any economy. in the present state of europe, it would be irresponsible to provoke a new crisis. after yesterday's eurogroup, thanks to the work of commissioner moscovici and the european commission, all the conditions are in place to bring the review of the greek programme to a positive conclusion and to open the chapter of debt relief - not cutting, but debt relief - to which we committed ourselves a year ago. this is a point of pride for our group. from the outset we socialists and democrats were convinced that an agreement could be found between the parties, a fair compromise that would require athens to carry out intelligent reforms in exchange for european support and debt relief. after yesterday's eurogroup, the alibis have fallen and it is now up to everyone to take responsibility, and i want to conclude, here too, clearly, that if the international monetary fund is to sabotage this agreement once again, then the union as a whole must have the strength to go on alone.
madam president, i think it is difficult to deny that the greek memorandum of last summer is very ambitious in its attempt to find a balanced approach between stability, growth, competitiveness and social fairness, but it is also very demanding because it is fully front—loaded in its method and extremely broad in its scope. at the same time, i think it is equally very difficult to deny that this greek government is delivering and is seriously committed in making reforms and implementing what has been agreed. for these reasons it is positive that an agreement has finally been achieved on the policy package of the fiscal and structural measures which are necessary to conclude the first review of the programme. i also consider it a good result that the contingency mechanism will be based on the greek proposal and will not impose on the greek people additional preventive austerity measures that would have been politically and economically destabilising. i note that the institution that has strongly advocated this option produced an economic forecast on the 2015 primary balance that has proved to be totally wrong. this would have called for more prudence, which hopefully in the end is materialising. finally, i strongly welcome that the discussion on additional debt relief has taken place and that now there is guidance and a clear mandate to identify specific measures like maturity extensions, grace periods and this, the interest deferral, on the basis of a three-stage approach that – and this is another positive element – does not exclude further measures in the long term. so yes, 9 may has been a good day for europe and i would like to thank the commission – and commissioner moscovici in particular – for its crucial role. now we strongly encourage finalising of the eurogroup guidance by 24 may in order to put greece on the path of stability, growth and jobs and in order to give a clear signal that europe is able to address and solve difficult crises and can do whatever it takes to preserve its stability and integrity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday you played the anthem of joy for the celebration of the eu, but looking at the state of affairs, it looked more like a funeral march. the greek parliament has approved yet another austerity package. all rescue programs, if you can call them that, have failed. the handelsblatt study of a few days ago showed that only 9.7 billion euros out of 216 in the first two bailout packages went to the greek people, while the rest went to financial institutions. and the third program insists on the same mistakes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. it is an economic, but above all a social, folly, a crime against the people of greece, who are being crushed by a failed eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. but that is not enough. the eurogroup has asked for and obtained a contingency mechanism with further cuts in case the targets are not met. greece will capitulate, humiliated once again. there is no prospect for the country and there never will be until it breaks free from the euro.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it is appropriate to admit that the european union made some mistakes in pursuing its policy of austerity, and perhaps it is appropriate to say that the compensation demanded of the greek people was excessive and that the measures taken were not sufficient to ensure the recovery of the greek economy. yet, as we have heard, the eurogroup does not seem to want to change its strategy. on the one hand, strict measures are still proposed such as the contingency plan, a sort of automatic compensation mechanism, ready to trigger with further spending cuts and new taxes in case athens fails to achieve the budgetary objectives indicated in the program, and in particular a primary surplus of 3.5% of gdp in 2018. on the other hand, greece's request for interest relief on its public debt, with an extension of the repayment periods, without affecting the nominal value of the debt, continues to be ignored. athens has made important reforms such as the very recent reforms on pensions and taxation. the eurogroup must acknowledge these efforts and make greek debt sustainable by timing payments, by taking into account the volume of annual maturities rather than the total amount, and by extending the period during which athens will not have to pay interest.
in writing. at this eurogroup meeting, the eurocrats expressed their satisfaction with the absurd and unpopular austerity measures accepted once again by the greek parliament, showing their ruthless indifference to the economic and social suffering of a country massacred by years of austerity. the european parliament has therefore unblocked yet another loan package, which will certainly not help the economy and the greek people, as would be normal if europe were governed by cooperation and peace instead of abuse of power and greed. the german newspaper handelsblatt puts it bluntly that 95% of the money lent to greece since the beginning of the financial crisis has been absorbed by the banks. the public coffers got 5%: eur 86.9 billion was used to repay old loans, eur 52.3 billion to pay interest to creditors and eur 37.3 billion to recapitalise banks. the citizens, who have been living in conditions of economic, social and humanitarian emergency for years, are owed €9.7 billion. this is intolerable. i am close to the greek people, who continue to suffer, in the name of the euro, the imposition of devastating neoliberal reforms and humiliating austerity conditions dictated by banks, markets and eurocrats.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the commissioner, who is here and whom i thank: but how much does this summit cost to help poor countries? because here we always talk and no one explains that, when it comes to 100, 80% of what we get goes only to representative expenses, to pay bureaucrats, to fix things, while to help people in need there is very little of the fat that is collected. how much does it cost, commissioner? i ask you again. and where does the whole world end? in turkey. and turkey, we all know how democratic it is with erdoğan, who would be better off if he stepped down, because i think he is a complete dictator. he'd be like the hitler of the year 2000. i would like to ask: turkey, it's like if you go and get drug addicts and then, to improve the situation of drug addicts, as a supervisor you take pablo escobar, who was the great drug lord in colombia and the world. you do the same thing: if there's one country you shouldn't have been at the summit, it's turkey. what about you? you quote and quote about drugs and you call pablo escobar. congratulations, you are doing a great job! and explain to the people and to those who are here where you throw all this money! why don't you give it to the people! you're eating them all!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that at the first world humanitarian summit in istanbul europe will find itself again, showing that it wants to be the protagonist of humanitarian action and solidarity, especially in the face of the refugee and forced migrant crisis, starting with the most vulnerable, children and young people. that is why we as the s&d group have launched the 'educa' campaign to double the resources for access to education and school for children in emergency situations, which represent only 2% of humanitarian aid. i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner stylianides for responding to our november report by investing an additional €52 million for 2016, and for being with us next saturday in rome for the launch of our campaign in italy. in the new global humanitarian strategy, education is not a second chance, but an essential part of policies of reception and protection, of prevention of violence, as well as of investment in the resilience of children in the project of their lives and those of their families. but we also proposed humanitarian corridors -- educational corridors, as we called them -- for the reception of refugee students by european universities. it is important that the italian government, germany and now perhaps spain will also accept refugee students in their university courses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we voted on the report by mr guerrero salom on the world humanitarian summit, we recognised that he was still well placed to ensure that the european union played a leading role and provided guidance for all the other participants. for the 5-star movement, the hopes at the summit are to end the incoherence and start acting together with intellectually honest governments, which will have the opportunity to make mea culpa and put an end to actions that create humanitarian crises. we must remember that 80% of crises are caused by conflicts generated by the very actors who say they want to solve the problem. the world humanitarian summit will also include countries such as saudi arabia, which, armed with european planes and bombs, is now the main cause of the humanitarian emergency in yemen. we remember not only the attacks on hospitals, but also those on rescuers and the media, hit with the criminal technique of the double or triple attack. i would ask commissioner stylianides to promise the european citizens that we will make a real commitment to this at the summit with participating states such as saudi arabia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the greatest movement of men, women and children since the second world war: two hundred and fifty million people on the move, almost 60 million refugees worldwide. we are witnessing a real humanitarian crisis on a planetary scale. people are fleeing, but they're fleeing from wars, conflicts, poverty, climate change. so this summit is welcome, because it allows us to put some important points in the spotlight, such as rethinking the use of humanitarian aid to move towards development policies that must go towards medium and long-term projects, addressing what are the real causes that displace people: i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the conflict, but that it should be involved in the peace process, and that it should be involved in the peace process. we must go beyond this emergency vision to a policy of prevention and concrete responses.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his earlier statement. mercosur has always been an important reference point for europe, not only in political and cultural terms but also in economic and commercial terms. it is enough to quote a fact: the european union is the mercosur's largest trading partner and mercosur is the sixth most important export market for the union. nevertheless, mercosur remains the only bloc of countries in the americas - excluding the united states and canada - with which the european union has not yet signed a trade agreement. in addition, in recent years the distance between the two sides of the atlantic has seemed to increase, due to a strategic shift of latin american countries towards asia, and in particular towards china, as evidenced by the conclusion of plurilateral treaties such as the tpp and some bilateral agreements such as china-chile and china-peru. today, however, the mercosur partners are showing a new willingness, and the relaunch of negotiations on an association agreement is a significant opportunity to strengthen the links already existing with this area in the wider context of a transatlantic strategy of the european union. the exchange of offers which will take place in the next few days will be a key stage in this renewed commitment. the agreement would provide not only for a reduction in tariffs but also for the reduction of non-tariff barriers and greater cooperation on controls and compliance with mutual standards. but as with all agreements, we are asking that trade should be seen as a new opportunity and not just as a source of imbalance. we ask the commission to be ambitious in the negotiations but also to be cautious, taking into account the needs of the most sensitive sectors of our production fabric. i hope that today's debate will show the political support of the european parliament for the relaunch of the negotiations, so that a balanced agreement can be reached which will be a real factor in the economic development of our continent.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been talk of a trade agreement with mercosur (the south american common market) for almost 20 years, but now the change at the summit in argentina seems to have given new impetus to the negotiations. we are not opposed to this agreement a priori, commissioner, and we believe that there is much to be gained for european industry and for european union companies in accessing the public procurement market in south america, but we must not trade some advantage in market access for our agriculture, as unfortunately happens all too often. if the agreement is successful, we risk a 70% increase in beef imports and a 25% increase in poultrymeat imports at a time when the european livestock sector is certainly not sailing on high sails. in addition, there is less agricultural regulation in south america, which raises the same problems as other agreements, which are now sadly known and have already been mentioned by other colleagues. an agreement with mercosur can also be a counterweight to treaties such as ttip and ceta. at a time when trade relations are increasingly becoming a north-north flow, it is important not to exclude the global south from the global value chain. so yes to a mutually beneficial agreement, which reduces red tape for small and mediumsized enterprises and facilitates mutual market access, but no and still no to any agreement which threatens our agriculture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for a trade agreement with mercosur for 17 years. the general conditions now seem favourable, but this must not and cannot be at the expense of european agriculture. 50% of european imports from mercosur are agricultural products, 86% of our beef imports and 70% of our poultrymeat imports come from these countries. the european union is close to a €20 billion agricultural trade deficit, and that without a free trade agreement with mercosur. it therefore seems logical to express concerns about the agricultural negotiations with mercosur, as 20 member states have done by requesting an impact assessment that duly takes into account the potential impact on the european agricultural sector. the commission, in relaunching the negotiations with mercosur, will have to assess carefully the impact on agriculture, also in view of the serious crisis the sector is going through and in view of the impact assessment on the potential effects that this agreement could have on the european agricultural sector.
in writing. considering that the european union and the mercosur partner countries launched negotiations for the creation of a free trade area (fta) more than 15 years ago and that political changes have taken place in the region, with the hope of an ambitious resumption and acceleration of the negotiations, we believe that the question addressed to the commission is particularly timely. in the light of the growing volume of trade flows, which make mercosur the eu's sixth trading partner, and the value of proximity in the face of global issues, an als between the two regional areas is the natural step forward in the friendly relations between the two partners. in full support of the renewed negotiating ambition, we take this opportunity to ask the european commission for assurances on the dismantling of duties on agri-food products. the high imbalance in the trade balance, which has seen the eu importing €21 billion of agricultural goods against only €2 billion of exports, and the concern expressed by about half of the member states raise important questions about the possible effects of the agreement on the economy of rural areas and the related employment fallout. has there been any progress on the mercosur bid in the area of public procurement and the automotive sector?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in rio de janeiro in 1992, 178 governments adopted agenda 21, which set out principles and criteria for sustainability with the aim of guiding development policies for the 21st century. ten years later, in 2002, in johannesburg, the lack of tangible results was acknowledged and the lack of culture and awareness of sustainable development was acknowledged. today we are following a new agenda with 17 goals and 169 targets to be achieved by 2030. we believe it is essential and urgent to show that the word 'sustainability' is no longer a mirage for the european union. how can we make coherent and sustainable policies of european interest which are the cause of land grabbing, the exploitation of non-renewable resources, the sale of arms, deforestation, corruption and, in most cases, the odious social and economic inequality? objectives and declarations of intent are not enough. the european union must launch a thorough review of development policies, ensure regular monitoring and accountability, ensure adequate funding and launch a new process of citizen participation in the planning, design and implementation of these policies.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, thank you for your speech and your commitment. i think there is a substantial and strong unity of opinion on this issue among the majority of the members of this house. who would say today that we are not convinced that we want to help two heroic countries like jordan and lebanon? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. if we look at, for example, the madad trust fund, which is specifically about helping syrian refugees, and we compare what we do in jordan and lebanon on the one hand, and in turkey on the other, there is a huge discrepancy. we did some math earlier, we said some important numbers: there are about 1,300,000 refugees in lebanon, and at least 650,000 but probably a million in jordan. we will therefore have some 2.5 million refugees who in return will receive, between the two countries, aid worth 1.8 billion. for turkey, if you count what comes from the trust fund, the 3 billion from the refugee facility and another 3 billion from the march 2016 agreement, it comes to over 6.3, and i don't want to count pre-accession funds, of course. in jordan and lebanon, there are refugees from the early days of the israeli-palestinian wars, hundreds of thousands. there are incredible efforts to promote coexistence, whereas in turkey we see an ambiguous attitude against daesh and an attitude which still needs to be condemned in terms of not fighting enough, for example, against oil trafficking. basically, i'm going to say: why do we use this positive discrimination for a country that is showing much less commitment? maybe because turkey is blackmailing us, i wonder? can we accept to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong? in view of the efforts of these countries, i say no. we must continue along the london road, and if we are to make a positive difference it must be to jordan and lebanon, by stepping up our efforts enormously and not giving in to the blackmail of authoritarian figures who would rather bend us to their will. helping lebanon and jordan also means freeing them from the blackmail of other regional powers such as saudi arabia, which is far from being sympathetic to the refugees but is very interested in exacerbating, for example, the clashes between sunnis and shiites in lebanon itself and the proxy wars. their stability is ours, their prosperity is ours. we honour the european union's nobel peace prize every day on the ground.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, i would like to emphasize one aspect above all, thanking you for your speech here and for the passion and intelligence with which you have sought, in your speech, to capture the general appeal of this parliament. i think we should focus on one aspect above all: the syrian tragedy has a huge impact in economic terms and in social and civil terms both in lebanon and in jordan. the latest figures from some international institutions tell us, for example, that the youth unemployment rate in jordan has risen from 19 to 35-39%. in lebanon, the collapse of gdp growth lebanon is a country that has grown at a very high rate over the last decade and the increase in demand for primary public services could generate an estimated loss of around $7.5 billion. so we are facing not only a dramatic crisis in terms of reception, but a dramatic crisis which calls into question the very existence of the two individual states, from an economic and social point of view. two guidelines are essential for this: on the one hand, we need to have coordination of resources, clarity and transparency about the impact of our policies, our choices. the suggestions made by other members of this house are in the right direction, if not even the right one, to imagine a genuine extraordinary plan for europe towards what you have called our region. and secondly, the one i insist on most is this extraordinary plan for education and training. 1 700 000 children and adolescents aged 5 to 17 live in refugee camps or are victims of the syrian tragedy. we owe them an extraordinary plan of training, education and access to new jobs. well, i think those are the choices that are before us.
in writing. i agree with the statement made by high representative federica mogherini: the european union's financial support to lebanon and jordan to deal with the syrian refugee crisis is an important and necessary investment, i would say indispensable, not only to help these two countries deal with a humanitarian emergency of unprecedented proportions, but also to ensure a certain degree of security and stability in europe. i recently had the opportunity to meet the maronite bishop of lebanon, patriarch béchara boutros rai, who, in an interesting speech, told us how in lebanon the two religions, muslim and christian, coexist peacefully and how important it is that europe should recognize the need to help syrian refugees to regain their dignity, a home and a decent life, not only by hosting them within european borders, but also by helping them to return to their homes, in a situation of peace and well-being. we recall that lebanon hosts one million refugees out of a population of four million, and in the meantime, together with jordan, it must also face its own fight against daesh terrorism, which is trying in every way to destabilize an already fragile situation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, are we talking about palestine? we shall have two cheering groups in this chamber: pro and against israel. is the european parliament a democratic body and a strong defender of human rights? then it must be united in demanding respect for international law, which must be applied without exception. the un security council, the international court of justice in the hague and the european union have declared the demolitions a clear violation of international law and illegal. although the european union has publicly called on the israeli government to protect the projects it supports, international cooperation projects have still been demolished or seized by israel. the demolitions not only violate the fourth geneva convention, but they seriously undermine the two-state solution, which is de facto endangered by the israeli government. it is time for the high representative and the european institutions to demand reparation for the damage and violations. in palestine i saw the desperation of the civilian population. but i met breaking the silence, an ngo of veterans of the israeli army. these, with their fantastic work of communication and protection of local communities, demonstrate that only a joint path of palestinian and israeli civil society can achieve peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high commissioner, we have had a surreal debate in this house today: instead of talking about the 34 israelis who were killed in acts of violence during this entire period, we discussed something else. instead of talking about the concrete that is systematically stolen by hamas to finance the construction of the terror tunnel, we have been dealing with something else. instead of talking about those terrible images on television, of palestinian children being trained to use knives to strike israelis, we have been dealing with something else. it is clear that where there is anti-semitism there is terrorism, and the european union must be aware that whenever anti-semitism develops and is fuelled, terrorism develops. then let 's get down to business . let us deal with what the israeli people are going through at this time, let us deal with the 34 israelis who were killed in these weeks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the report on the fight against organised crime and corruption, i cannot help but express my satisfaction at the agreement reached on the europol regulation. the results achieved in the negotiations aimed at making europol more efficient and more accountable, without prejudice to but rather by strengthening the proper monitoring role of the national parliaments, and also the data protection regime, are certainly welcome. it is essential that the union, through europol, should effectively support the efforts of the member states in the fight against serious crime, that it should effectively support the exchange of information which, as we have seen, has not always worked so far. i am thinking here above all of the fight against organized crime of the mafia type, corruption and terrorism, which cross national borders and therefore require a holistic approach at european level. in this respect, the creation of joint investigation teams, the exercise of europol's power of initiative and the necessary cooperation of the member states can help usher in a new era of effective and effective action against the mafia, corruption and terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank mr díaz de mera and all those who have worked with him for the excellent work they have done. the updating of the legal framework governing europol's activities is an indispensable measure to increase the efficiency of cooperation between the authorities involved in combating crime and thus to make europe safer. in recent years, europol has made an effective contribution to the fight against the most serious crossborder crime by providing national authorities with intelligence analysis and logistical support in the conduct of joint operations. and today, more than ever, it is necessary to approve the reform of europol, given that the new threats to security in europe urgently require a common response. in the light of the tragic events in paris and brussels, the need to strengthen police cooperation instruments in the european union is becoming increasingly urgent. europol will now have a new legal basis which specifies its powers and extends its competences, while respecting data protection rules and fundamental rights. in this respect, the decision to introduce a mechanism for monitoring europol's activities by the european parliament in conjunction with the national parliaments is welcome. it should also be stressed that the new regulation will ensure a robust data protection regime, in line with existing instruments at european level, including through the provision of a personal data protection authority at europol and the involvement of data protection officers at european and national level. today's vote comes after three years of negotiations, but we can be satisfied with our work because we are going to vote on a text that strengthens the role of the agency, although i cannot help stressing that only real and timely cooperation between the member states and the member states will enable europol to play its role in countering the phenomenon of international terrorism even more effectively and to provide valuable support in identifying and dismantling criminal organisations that deal with the most serious crimes, including human trafficking, for example.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i can say without fear of contradiction that europol is performing the tasks assigned to it to date with great professionalism and with excellent results. but the international landscape has changed dramatically and is constantly evolving. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find their way in the world. that is why, today more than ever, europol needs to be strengthened, by means of a significant increase in budgetary appropriations, with a consequent increase in staff and resources which can allow, as this regulation also provides, in an absolutely intelligent way, the establishment of specialised units to combat cybercrime and terrorist propaganda online, also favouring better coordination between the police and intelligence forces of the member states, which perhaps has not happened on time until now. that is why i welcome this important regulation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent terrorist attacks and the growing threats in cyberspace have highlighted the need to strengthen our intelligence system to facilitate greater coordination and a greater capacity for joint action. europol is given more powers, enhancing its immediate response capacity to terrorist threats and cross-border crime. i particularly appreciate the enhanced role of the internet referral unit, europol's unit for combating terrorist propaganda online, which will be tasked with identifying content deemed dangerous and providing support to national governments. the new governance rules will enable europol to step up its efforts to combat terrorism and cybercrime. a positive aspect of the reform also concerns the democratic control over the agency. i mean, progress has been made, but it's not enough. given the high level of threat, i think it is necessary to propose further strengthening of europol, both in support of operations in the field and in the activities of its centre for the exchange of information on criminal activities.
in writing. europol's contribution to the fight against terrorism and serious crime has great potential, as recent news events have also demonstrated the importance of information exchange between national intelligence services. the proposal for a regulation which should therefore update its operation in accordance with the provisions of the lisbon treaty is therefore welcome. in addition to introducing greater democratic control by the european parliament and national parliaments over europol's activities, it introduces improvements in the protection of data processed, a problem which had previously been identified and complained about. the hope is that the agency can provide valuable, effective and reliable support in the fight against transnational crime, while strictly respecting the rule of law and fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, managing the migration phenomenon responsibly also means, and above all, opening up legal and regular channels of legal immigration. in adopting this directive, parliament and the council acknowledge the need to harmonize procedures and to make it easier for researchers, students, pupils, volunteers and young people alike to enter and stay in the community. today's vote opens the way to a future common migration policy based on regular access to the european union. of course, these are temporary economic migration measures, but a first step has been taken. the amendments which this house has made during the legislative procedure will give third-country nationals the right to enter, reside and carry out part of their research or studies in one or more member states. the same right will also be granted to pupils, volunteers and workers on equal terms. we recognize that these same people are entitled to equal treatment with the member state concerned. we recognise the possibility for students and researchers to stay for a period after the end of their studies or research in order to enable them to find employment or start a business. demographic challenges and the multiple shortages of labour, not just highly skilled labour, require us to review the fragmented national policies on economic migration, to focus on general rules on the entry and residence of workers from third countries. the opening of channels for economic migrants would also be the most effective measure to counter the modern slavery which is increasingly taking root in our territories through the exploitation of migrant workers, especially women. it is a fact, mr president: europe can only prosper if it facilitates the mobility of knowledge, goods and people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs wikström for her work. the directive we are voting on today has a strong symbolic value. it not only establishes a coordinated and transparent regulatory framework to make it easier for third-country nationals to enter europe for study purposes, but it also sets the conditions for student mobility, not flight but the circulation of brains, in order to create a labour market open to researchers not only from europe. we are giving the opportunity to increase the skills of those who, and there are many, who want to come to europe to train, to acquire knowledge and to experience internships that will be of use not only in the union but also in their countries of origin. the fact that we have succeeded, for example, in raising the minimum weekly hours limit to allow students to work part-time means that we have given them the practical opportunity of training in the field in order to develop professional profiles which are immediately usable in the labour market and in the enterprise. the directive sets out the arrangements for welcoming into the world of training, research and, therefore, work those who believe in and appreciate the european design and see europe as a centre of excellence, culture but also of opportunity. and they are mutual opportunities, because europe needs highly qualified people in different areas of research and innovation to remain competitive on the world stage. i also consider this directive to be an important part of european immigration policy, which paves the way for legal migration by focusing on young people, particularly students and researchers, and by promoting and supporting intra- and extra-european mobility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today's directive, after a long gestation, thanks to the work of parliament, finally creates common conditions and rules for students, researchers, trainees, but also volunteers and trainees from third countries to enter and stay in europe to study, but also to start a business. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this is an important first step towards finally defining a general framework for global mobility in higher education, voluntary work and research, based on the positive but limited experience of erasmus and erasmus mundus, but also for the internationalisation of european universities, research centres and businesses. so it is not just a question of immigration, as some have said, but it is finally a question of a new perspective, that of internationalisation, of europe's competitiveness and of a different kind of cooperation, which is now being asked of our universities, our companies and our research centres.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 may 2016 at 12.00 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the subject of the vote is the extension of the exemptions provided for in the regulation to the capital requirements of negotiators for own account of goods. we in the five star movement want regulations that are appropriate to the risk profile of these negotiators. this derogation covers, without giving a precise timetable, yet another inefficiency of the european agencies, specifically eba and esma who had the task of formulating an appropriate proposal for a regulation. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the loones report on exemptions for freight forwarders. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the community. those legislative instruments provide for an exemption until 31 december 2017. the commission has started the procedure, with the advice of the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority, to create a consistent prudential framework for all types of investment firms, but it seems unlikely that the new rules will be able to be applied before the expiry of the maximum duration clause. in this context, and in order to avoid damage to the parties concerned, parliament decided to approve the proposal to extend the exemption regime for the time necessary to prepare, adopt and apply the new legislation.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote contains some unclear passages which i do not fully agree with, and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, in order to avoid major shocks for the freight forwarders sector, resulting from the legal uncertainty caused by the expiry of the crr, it is appropriate to extend the exemptions provided for by the crr.
in writing. ‒ the development of the legislative framework for trade in raw materials and energy is a long process requiring commitment, expertise and acumen. this parliamentary act is a further step in the protection of european entrepreneurship and in view of the necessary review of the existing provisions on an appropriate regime for own-account merchandise dealers and for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general, aimed at achieving an acceptable balance between the sustainability and fairness of the sector and the actual feasibility of entrepreneurial action by citizens.
in writing. ‒ the capital requirements regulation (crr) and the capital requirements directive (crd) exempt, until december 2017, commodity dealers from the large exposure requirements and the own funds requirements respectively. the term 'own-account commodity trader' covers a wide spectrum of actors in the energy and commodity markets: some deal exclusively in commodity derivatives and resemble investment firms in terms of functions and risks, while for others commodity derivatives trading is simply an ancillary activity to commodity production. the commission has decided to undertake a single review on an appropriate regime for merchandise dealers and for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general and the proposed extension should take into account the time needed to complete the review of investment firms and to prepare, adopt and apply the legislation that may result from that review. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation on capital requirements for credit institutions and investment firms (cras). the amendment concerns the exemptions for commodity dealers from the large exposure requirements and the own funds requirements. both exemptions expired on 31 december 2017. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of capital injections in the case of the three sampled companies. the commission's review of an appropriate regime for freight forwarders will not be completed before the end of this year, making it extremely unlikely that any legislation can be applied before the expiry of the current exemptions. in order to avoid that merchandise dealers are subject to all the requirements of the crr without an informed decision on the most appropriate regime actually being taken, i voted in favour of an extension of the above exemptions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to extend the capital requirements exemptions for merchandise negotiators beyond 32 december 2017. first of all, i thought it unfair that the simplified procedure was used on this report, which therefore excluded the possibility of introducing amendments in the econ committee. furthermore, i do not agree with further exemptions for dealers who behave on the markets as genuine investment firms and should therefore be treated as such.
in writing. ‒ in this document, parliament called for a single review of both commodity traders and the prudential supervision of investment firms, in order to better verify the regulatory effectiveness of european regulations and directives issued in this area. i think it is essential to implement this type of control procedure and i also believe that, especially in such sensitive areas, it is necessary to implement it with the necessary precautions and within the necessary time, which is why such a long extension is envisaged. it is essential that there should be a specific prudential framework in this area and i believe that this report effectively meets this need, which is why i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation to extend the exemption for freight forwarders to avoid that this category of traders is operating in an unstable regulatory environment in the short term. the application of the large exposure and own funds requirements to commodity dealers should not result from the mere expiry of the exemption, but rather from a carefully reasoned decision. therefore, regulatory authorities should be allowed the time necessary to establish prudential regulation appropriate to the risk profile of commodity dealers.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the report because i share the need to extend the exemptions provided for in the crr for the category of commodity dealers. the commission notes that the capital requirements for the securitisation positions are set out in the cr sa template. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 56 (b) of crr furthermore, even assuming that the review of investment firms would result in a prudential framework tailored to the needs of commodity dealers, the latter would be deprived of stable regulation.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because the proposed extension should take into account the time needed to complete the review of investment firms and to prepare any relevant legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the ep proposal for a regulation on exemptions for traders in goods on their own account, whereby the ep essentially accepted the ec proposal to extend the initial exemption until the end of 2017. the maximum duration of the capital relief and the exemption for large exposures had been provided for in the capital requirements regulation for credit institutions and investment firms (crr) in order to allow commodity dealers to operate and to allow the regulatory authorities the time necessary to establish appropriate regulation from a prudential and hence capital requirements perspective. with the temporary extension of the exemption, the commission intends to maintain the status quo until it has completed the review and drawn up new legislation, in order to avoid that freight forwarders are subject, in the absence of an informed assessment, to all the prudential measures provided for in the crr and the crd and thus to verify whether the prudential requirements provided for are also appropriate for this specific category of freight forwarders.
in writing. this topic deals with exemptions for freight forwarders. the commission proposed a single review for both commodity dealers and the prudential supervision of investment firms. this review procedure is very complex, to the extent that it cannot be completed by the end of the year, and it therefore seems unlikely that any legislation can emerge from this procedure in a short time. the commission has also examined whether the exemptions from the crr are proportionate to the risks that the investment firm faces in relation to the provision of its services to clients. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards exemptions for own-account merchandise dealers. a single review was carried out by the commission on an appropriate regime for negotiators for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general and commodity firms in particular, and a single report on the issues in question. this was considered essential to ensure the development of a consistent prudential framework for all types of investment firms.
in writing. ‒ it is important to extend exemptions for commodity traders in order to facilitate their trade. we do not want to create surprises with regulations for which the traders are not prepared. that is why i voted in favour of this report and we are anxious to see an improvement in the regulation, but this must happen at the right time.
in writing. ‒ the exemptions for commodity dealers, provided for in the capital requirements regulation to allow the authorities to adjust the risk profile of the above-mentioned dealers, will remain in force until 2017. i welcome the commission's decision to undertake a single review of the appropriate regime in order to ensure a coherent development of the matter but, as this process will take place beyond the time limits within which the exemptions will expire, i believe that an extension of the exemptions under articles 493 (1) and 498 (1) is useful. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the term 'own trader in goods' covers a wide spectrum of actors in the energy and commodity markets: some deal exclusively in commodity derivatives and are similar to investment firms in terms of functions and risks, while others deal in commodity derivatives as a mere ancillary activity to commodity production. the commission decided to undertake a single review of an appropriate regime for commodity dealers and for the prudential supervision of investment firms in general and to draw up a single report on the issues in question. this was considered necessary to ensure the development of a consistent prudential framework for all types of investment firms. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report follows the commission's proposal to review the regulatory framework for those who operate exclusively on their own account on financial markets as traders in derivatives or commodities. i voted in favour of the report along with the ppe group, following the positive opinion of the economic committee, and i share the principle of extending the exemption from the own funds requirements and from large exposures for negotiators themselves, so as not to leave the parties concerned in an unstable situation during the review phase.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this measure is going in the right direction: strengthening europol means strengthening the protection and security of the citizens of the european union. i think that the exchange of information must follow strict criteria, precisely in order to ensure uniformity in the collection of information and to combat, especially through the new media and the internet in particular, what is being done by recruiting young people, who then become instruments of fundamentalism and above all of terrorism, which is so harmful to our society. it is a very positive measure, which i feel i can support by voting for it, and i am proud that parliament is moving in this direction.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns the draft regulation establishing the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol). the new regulation will also ensure a robust data protection regime for europol. all this is aimed at increasing controls in order to combat terrorism and other forms of crime effectively. for these reasons i voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report by mera garcía consuegra on the regulation establishing the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol). the project represents an important step forward in the fight against terrorist activity and crossborder crime, by promoting a more effective exchange of information between member states and europol in the first place. the agency's powers will be extended to allow it to set up specialised units more easily and to exchange information more quickly with ngos and private companies. the new powers will also be matched by strengthened control mechanisms. europol will report annually to the european parliament, the council, the commission and national parliaments on the information provided by individual member states; the work of the edps will be monitored by the european data protection supervisor and also monitored by a group of meps and members of national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ the díaz report has some positive elements, such as the call for greater efforts in the fight against international terrorism. i think, however, that the text lacks condemnation of the eu's failure to manage its external borders and the resulting mass and uncontrolled immigration, which has already caused serious social and economic problems in our territories. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ in times when the fight against terrorism is a top priority, strengthening europol is an urgent necessity. criminal and terrorist networks are a real threat to all european citizens today, and if we are to meet the challenges they present we must upgrade our counter-terrorism and intelligence capabilities. europol plays a key role in this, of course, by assisting and facilitating the exchange of information and expertise between the police forces of the different member states, which is why an enhancement of the agency is needed now more than ever. i therefore support the reform of europol, which aims to optimise its overall functioning by improving its governance and data protection regime, while at the same time strengthening its competences and capacity for cooperation with third countries and international organisations.
in writing. ‒ today's vote in favour of the diaz report is a testament to the european parliament's strong commitment to strengthening the protection and security of citizens of the european union. the text has positive elements in that it strengthens the mandate of the european police agency by providing it with new governance rules and, at the same time, new responsibilities. in addition, the call for greater efforts in the fight against international terrorism, including through the monitoring of internet content, is an important signal of prevention against fundamentalism. the new powers conferred on europol will not weaken the data protection safeguards. the european data protection supervisor will monitor the activities of the police agency, while a joint parliamentary control group will supervise its work. the report as a whole must therefore be regarded positively because, in addition to testifying to the european parliament's strong commitment to combating terrorism, it is a step forward towards greater exchange of information between the police forces of the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ the eu and its member states share responsibilities for maintaining the security, justice, freedom and fundamental rights of the citizens of the union: this requires the creation of an effective level of data protection in the judicial and police activities of the eu and its member states. pushing for the creation of common institutions that harmonise activities, implementing genuine cooperation between supervisory authorities at national and union level, is essential to enhance strategic and operational cooperation between the member states of the european union, their intelligence and police forces and partner countries in order to make the fight against terrorism, mafias, smuggling and international crime more effective, bearing in mind that the ultimate goal of making the system more efficient must be the creation of an eu police and intelligence force subject to democratic control by european citizens.
in writing. ‒ as confirmed by the final vote in the libe committee by mr fontana, we do not want to reject this proposal completely. we believe that there are elements which are certainly positive, such as increased investment in the fight against terrorism through intelligence services and increased controls on third country nationals. the rapporteur's political choice not to openly condemn the failure of the border management and the migration crisis, which has therefore caused and is causing extraordinary work by europol, is a heavy one.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this recommendation to allow the european police agency, europol, to step up efforts to fight terrorism, cybercrime and other crimes and to respond more quickly to threats. in particular, it will be easier for europol to set up specialised units to respond immediately to emerging threats. in some cases, europol will be able to exchange information directly with private parties, such as companies or ngos, in order to act more quickly. for example, europol's special unit for internet monitoring will be able to contact directly the providers responsible for a social network such as facebook and ask that a web page operated by isis be deleted, thus more quickly blocking the spread of terrorist propaganda. these new powers conferred on europol will go hand in hand with stronger data protection safeguards and instruments of democratic parliamentary scrutiny. the european data protection supervisor (edps) will be responsible for monitoring europol's activities and a clear complaints procedure for eu citizens will be established. a joint parliamentary monitoring group will also be set up to oversee europol's work.
in writing. ‒ this is the vote on second reading on the new draft regulation establishing the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol). the new regulation aims to bring the decision currently underpinning europol into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty and introduces a mechanism for the ep to scrutinise europol's activities in association with national parliaments. a stronger data protection regime applicable to the agency is also introduced, in particular by ensuring the full independence of the data protection officer of europol. further elements of improved governance of europol will also be introduced, so that it can provide more effective support to member states in the fight against terrorism and other serious forms of crime. i certainly voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the work of the european union agency for law enforcement activities (europol) has become more important than ever in recent times. the recent criminal events, in particular the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels, have made it clear that organised crime, in this case daesh terrorism, knows no borders between the member states of the european union. the caliphate sees the european union as a single economic and political entity and to strike at one member state is to strike at the whole union. the attacks are organized in one state, with material from another state and committed in another. it is clear that only a joint police and intelligence force can protect us. the exchange of information and cooperation between member states is essential to counteract the advance of this terrorism, which is determined to strike at the economic and political heart of the union. europol must be able to function quickly and effectively to combat terrorism, but also all the other innumerable crimes committed on european soil, for example trafficking in human beings, unfortunately linked to the phenomenon of migration in our day, as well as the abuse of women and children.
in writing. ‒ progress is slowly being made in the fight against international crime, including the phenomenon of terrorism which has recently been increasingly affecting europe. the report seeks to bring the judicial and police activities in the individual member states closer together in order to improve cooperation in tackling a worldwide problem. it also aims to harmonise data protection in order to ensure effectiveness and consistency and to avoid unnecessary duplication and delay. i could therefore only express my support (technically: against rejection) for this important proposal because i believe it represents a real improvement in the fight against crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in order to combat crossborder crime and terrorist threats, the responsible supervisory authorities, such as europol, should be equipped with the necessary skills and resources. however, the fight against international terrorist crime must be balanced with the protection of personal data and the privacy of european citizens. the european data protection supervisor should therefore enhance cooperation with national supervisory authorities in order to ensure effectiveness and consistency in their work.
in writing. ‒ the compromise text agreed by the european parliament and the council on 4 december 2015 should now be adopted at second reading. the text concerns the regulation establishing the european union agency for the cooperation and training of law enforcement authorities (europol). we recall that europol aims to improve the efficiency of the competent services of the member states and their cooperation in areas such as the prevention and combating of terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration networks, trafficking in human beings and money laundering. the regulation will also have to bring europol's external relations into line with the new treaty. europol must provide effective support to states, especially in the fight against terrorism and crime. given the importance of europol, i believe that a system of coordination and dynamics between the various member states is necessary, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that cooperation between national and european supervisory authorities is necessary to ensure the protection of the fundamental rights of eu citizens, including the protection of personal data, freedom and justice. i am convinced that the protection of citizens' data must go hand in hand with careful information sharing between the competent authorities, in order to intervene more effectively in the prevention of terrorist attacks and the fight against organised crime. the security of european citizens can only be guaranteed in the future by greater coordination and cooperation between national police forces and europol.
in writing. ‒ the threats posed by the different forms of organised crime, and unfortunately recently also by terrorist attacks, make it clear that it is inevitable and urgent for the eu to invest more in security by strengthening the dynamics of cooperation between european and national supervisory authorities. that is why i fully support the proposal in the recommendation for an eu agency for police cooperation and training, and i believe that it is even more essential today to extend the powers and instruments of europol, so that the agency can become more efficient in terms of supervision and control in the dynamics of cooperation with national police authorities and in ensuring data protection and the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and, consequently, i voted against the amendment to reject the proposal, because i consider it very important that parliament should support the strengthening of europol's mandate, given the current circumstances. the need to strengthen cooperation between national authorities in the fight against terrorism and organised crime is an absolute necessity, as demonstrated by the attacks in paris and brussels and also by recent police operations in several member states. i therefore strongly support the 'lisbonisation' of europol, with strengthened powers, more powers and a broader mandate. however, a broader mandate implies greater control needs: i am therefore very much in favour of the introduction of a parliamentary scrutiny and the establishment of a joint european parliament/national parliaments monitoring group which can convene representatives of the agency and the commission. finally, i think that the provisions for the protection of personal data are important, given the amount of sensitive information at the disposal of the agency.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament is giving a strong signal of its commitment to combating terrorism, cybercrime and other serious crimes. the text adopted strengthens the mandate of the european police agency europol by enabling it to respond even more rapidly to threats operating across our borders. we have given the agency new governance rules and new responsibilities to provide more comprehensive support to member states' law enforcement authorities. the amendments will enable europol to support member states' actions to prevent and combat forms of crime promoted or committed via the internet, including the reporting to the relevant online service providers of internet content facilitating such forms of crime. the new powers conferred on europol will not be at the expense of protecting the data of european citizens. the european data protection supervisor will monitor the agency's activities and a joint parliamentary control group will supervise its work.
in writing. i believe that it is necessary to provide for the establishment of a high level of data protection in relation to both judicial and police activities in the eu in order to guarantee and ensure respect for and protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. the ep and the council consider that close and effective cooperation between the various supervisory authorities, both at national and eu level, is essential to ensure this process of protection. in difficult times such as we are living in, action against the threat of terrorism must be at the heart of our political action. in this context, the sharing of information between member states and the consequent possible identification of 'foreign fighters' are fundamental tools in the fight against terrorism. i therefore vote in favour of the new rules on europol, to give concrete answers to the terrorist threat.
in writing. ‒ the negative voting was taken in consequence of a common decision of the italian delegation of the ppe.
in writing. ‒ the new europol regulation will ensure a strong legal basis, together with more supporting powers for national authorities. in addition, the new text includes the new legal basis for the web monitoring unit. this unit, launched in july last year, will have the key task of reporting to national authorities suspected web content related to terrorist and radicalisation activities on the net. europol is a key element in the european union's strategy to combat terrorism and crossborder crime. the agency will in the near future have to support national authorities in their daily fight against crime. in addition, europol actively supports member countries in managing illegal immigration and in combating human traffickers. its contribution is reflected in european staff supporting national authorities on the ground, especially in hotspots in italy and greece. europol is one of the best responses the european union is giving in ensuring greater security for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the shared work of the european union and the member states in safeguarding fundamental rights, effective cooperation between authorities is essential in order to establish a high level of data protection in judicial and police activities. i believe that this proposal, as approved by the council at first reading, is in line with the security objectives pursued by the european union and therefore i do not support the findings on which we are voting. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the mandate of europol, which we approved today, will provide the additional resources and powers that are urgently needed in the fight against the most serious forms of organised crime. at the same time, a more democratic and transparent system of monitoring its operation is being set up. the main lesson we have to learn from the horrific attacks in paris and brussels is that even when we have important information that can help prevent and thwart terrorist activity, national police services are not able to share that information effectively. the reform of europol's mandate will help to fill this gap. however, the increase in powers is accompanied by an increase in the level of responsibility of the agency. europol will have to demonstrate greater responsibility in the handling of personal data - with new, strong data protection provisions that will ensure the security of data concerning european citizens. it will also be subject to greater parliamentary scrutiny, with its actions being monitored by a body composed of both european and national parliamentarians. europol now has both the powers and the legal framework it needs to combat crossborder crime effectively in the 21st century.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the european council's proposal to establish the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) as a new step towards judicial and police cooperation within the union. data protection and control are of crucial importance in prevention and security, which is why i voted in favour of the report and rejected the amendments to the text proposed by the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ the compromise reached will give europol the possibility of setting up specialised units to combat certain types of crime or acts of terrorism. the new regulation provides for the full independence of the agency, enhanced data protection safeguards and adds detailed rules on scrutiny by the european parliament and national parliamentarians. in the light of recent events in brussels and paris, i believe that europol must be able to operate to the best of its ability in order to be able to combat and prevent crime and acts of terrorism effectively and efficiently. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the regulation establishing the european union's law enforcement cooperation agencies (europol). the regulation aims to bring europol into line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty and to introduce a mechanism for monitoring europol's activities by the european parliament together with national parliaments. we voted in favour of the regulation because it will ensure a strong data protection regime for europol to ensure that the data protection officer is independent and can act effectively. we therefore welcome the europol regulation which we believe can provide more effective support to member states in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ with council directive 2004/114/ec, the european union has provided for the first harmonisation of national legislation on the conditions of entry and residence for students, pupils, trainees and volunteers from third countries. the current proposal to amend the directive aims to broaden the legal channels of access, as well as to simplify conditions and procedures, by proposing significant changes in the areas of entry to employment and mobility between member states. i voted against the rejection amendment because i believe that facilitating the exchange and mobility of students, researchers and volunteers can make a major contribution to the cultural, economic and social enrichment of the union.
in writing. ‒ attracting talent and people with high skills is a priority for the european union, especially at a time of strong international competition, a skills shortage within the eu and a high rate of ageing of its population. i voted in favour of the wikström report because i believe that the solutions proposed are commensurate with the challenges we are facing. the new directive, which will combine and replace the provisions of the current students' directive and the researchers' directive, will make it easier and more attractive for researchers and students and workers to study and do research in the eu. the new rules will allow third-country nationals to stay in the union for nine months after completing their studies and research in order to look for a job or set up a business. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to develop a european strategy for the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the directive in question would justify the entry of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, research, traineeships and other training programmes to encourage immigration to europe. once again, the idea is being put forward that the only way to save europe's economic and demographic growth is through the mass immigration of non-eu citizens into the eu. i believe that europe must first of all be concerned about the millions of european citizens who are left without work, mainly because of the eu's foolish choices. i therefore voted to reject this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the text adopted today at the end of a long legislative process, which aims at revising and further harmonising the rules on entry and residence in the european union by third-country nationals for the purposes of study, research, traineeship and other forms of exchange or placement. at a time when immigration is on the agenda, with all the problems and challenges it raises, strengthening the channels of legal entry into the eu and the conditions for staying there, to the benefit in particular of qualified and willing young people, is an important step towards fostering the cultural and skills exchange that should be at the heart of the european spirit and the development of our societies. focusing on human capital and encouraging its mobility is not only at the heart of our strategies, but also of our values, and we must remember this in these difficult times, including when dealing with third countries or immigration.
in writing. the european union is facing major structural changes, both demographic and economic. the working age population has practically stopped growing and will begin to decline over the next two years. for both economic and demographic reasons, current patterns of employment growth focusing on skilled workers will remain in place for the next decade. the union is also faced with an 'innovation emergency': each year, europe spends 0.8% of gdp less on research and development than the united states and 1.5% less than japan. in this context, it is important to maintain a framework of rules on the residence of third-country nationals that is consistent with the eu's founding values, the principles underlying its action and the economic and demographic interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ the directive would facilitate access to the union for the above categories through more streamlined bureaucratic procedures. but all of this is justified by the political message that in short supports the need for more immigration into europe. we recall that at first reading this text was justified by: 'estimates of the immigration needed to maintain the labour force-to-total population ratio at 2010 levels indicate that the eu as a whole would need 11 million incoming workers in the period 2010-2020'; or: "europe will increasingly depend on immigration to fill job vacancies and ensure economic growth". i voted to reject the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that the eu needs a single instrument applicable to all these groups of third-country nationals. simplifying and improving their conditions of entry and residence is both a duty and a moral obligation. the eu faces major demographic and economic challenges. allowing third-country nationals to acquire skills and knowledge during a period of training in europe can therefore help to build up a pool of potential workers and encourage the circulation of brains. the existing rules governing access for some of these groups, however, are still not sufficiently clear and therefore do not allow the practical difficulties encountered by those concerned to be resolved. promoting people-to-people contacts and mobility are essential elements of the union's policy. migration is a form of mutual enrichment for the home and the host countries. thinking globally is the new challenge for the future of our young people.
in writing. ‒ parliament is called upon to approve, at second reading, the text of the revision of the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary service, pupil exchange programmes or educational projects, and equal employment. the revision is in fact aimed at widening and facilitating legal pathways to the eu for certain categories of persons. the text provides for the harmonisation of conditions of entry and residence in the eu for researchers, students, trainees and volunteers participating in the european voluntary service from third countries. for other categories of persons (such as third-country nationals applying to participate in a pupil exchange programme or an educational project, volunteers other than those participating in the european voluntary service and persons placed on an equal footing), member states would retain the option of applying the conditions laid down in the amended directive. the vote is undoubtedly in favour.
in writing. ‒ i could only express my support (technically: against rejection) of the council's proposal because i agree with the objectives and the terms of the report. the document aims to simplify the possibility of movement for third-country nationals by giving them the opportunity to acquire skills and knowledge through a period of training in europe. it also encourages the "circulation of brains" and supports cooperation with other states. all of them are laudable objectives, which is why i voted against the rejection of this proposal. i am bitter to see that the mere obstructionism of certain political parties, such as the efdd, too often represents a serious threat to the formation of good initiatives like this.
in writing. ‒ the eu's working age population has virtually stopped growing and will probably start to decline over the next few years, while thousands of the best researchers and innovators move to countries where conditions are more favourable. allowing third-country nationals to acquire skills and knowledge during a period of training in europe can help to form a pool of potential highly qualified workers and encourage the circulation of brains by supporting cooperation with third countries. however, the rules in force governing access for some of these groups are not sufficiently clear and do not allow some of the practical difficulties encountered by those concerned to be resolved. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the revision of this directive in fact extends the legal pathways to the eu for certain categories of persons and facilitates their entry. i am voting in favour of the report because of the many problems facing europe in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for this legislative resolution by voting in favour, because i believe that the stay of third-country nationals in the eu to carry out training projects should be regulated in such a way as to safeguard the free movement of persons, knowledge and skills within the union. i therefore support the joint position of the european parliament and the european commission on the grounds for refusing entry to third-country nationals in europe. such citizens should not be prevented from pursuing their study or work project in one or more member states and their application should be rejected only where there is serious and objective evidence or reason and, in any event, taking into account the specific circumstances of the third-country national and the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ the opportunities and benefits offered by the research and innovation sectors need to be supported not only by investment but also by clear and binding rules governing the conditions of entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteering, pupil exchange programmes or educational projects, and peer placement. in ensuring that these categories of persons are treated fairly and uniformly by the member states, the basis is created for the promotion of social, cultural and economic relations which allow the circulation and transfer of knowledge and skills. certain rules for the training of human capital must also be aimed at cooperation with third countries, bring benefits to both the countries of origin and those of arrival and eliminate any risk of exploitation and discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation on the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for certain purposes, an important achievement that identifies the positive value of legal migration, giving students, researchers and other groups of young people who come to europe for school exchange programmes or educational projects, volunteering or training, greater legal certainty, broadening the scope of the existing directives. i believe that europe must continue to send strong signals in this regard and demonstrate a strong commitment to the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, training, voluntary service, pupil exchange programmes or educational projects and equal opportunities. the european parliament voted today by a large majority a measure with a major impact on the competitiveness of the european union, providing not only an important opportunity for students and young professionals to further develop their professional and training skills and experience, but also by framing immigration in a legal framework that bridges a demographic and economic gap within the european labour market. i am sure that this legislative achievement of the ep will make european universities more attractive and capable of developing even more ambitious plans and projects to ensure the highest quality of studies and research in europe and the world. finally, i join the rapporteur, ms wikstom, in calling for the directive to be transposed into the national law of the member states as soon as possible, in order to ensure that the rule is fully applicable throughout the eu and that the spirit of the european legislator is preserved.
in writing. we live in a world of constant progress where borders are beginning to narrow. the recommendation to be voted on today aims to simplify and at the same time regulate the mobility of third-country nationals to the european territory for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, pupil exchange programmes and equal employment. in doing so, the proposal aims to encourage the circulation of brains and to maintain cooperation with third countries. the directive brings a number of regulatory innovations which will undoubtedly lead to a better life for the people concerned and a more profitable european market which will be able to benefit from the skills of these categories. for a more united europe, and for the greater opportunities that will result from it, i am voting in favour of the proposal to simplify the method of mobility of the categories mentioned.
in writing. – the negative voting was taken in consideration with the italian epp delegation and the position of the epp group.
in writing. europe is lagging behind in attracting young researchers and workers who could make a key contribution to growth. the report we voted on today is going in the right direction, making it easier for 'brains' to come and stay. i hope that the directive will be quickly transposed by the member states, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been facing major demographic and economic challenges in recent years, in particular growth and employment that are struggling to pick up, an ageing population and significant migration flows from africa and the middle east. with this directive, the european union, through legal immigration channels, stimulates the investment of resources and energy to attract skills and knowledge of scholars and researchers from non-eu third countries, including trainees, volunteers and peers. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, it also encourages the circulation of 'brains' and skills, in order to improve and strengthen the european socio-economic fabric: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european union's research programmes. i therefore welcome the amendments tabled by parliament at second reading and supported by the s&d group, particularly as regards the allocation of ad hoc funds to support those who choose to come to europe, and the extension to 12 months of the period granted at the end of the study experience for those who want to stay to find work, build a life and a family in europe.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, volunteering, pupil exchange programmes and peer placement. the directive under consideration by the commission should reorganise the existing directives on this subject, harmonising them and improving the conditions for third-country nationals travelling to the european union. the report is interesting because it makes clear that the new directive is specifically aimed at strengthening the protection of students' right to parttime work during their study periods and their right to remain on european soil for up to a further eighteen months after the end of their agreed period. this report is important because it has already seen broad convergence in the debate in the committee, thanks to its ambition to continue developing a theme central to the future of the union: knowledge and cultural exchange. in this age of borders and walls being built, the european union must show itself capable of promoting, now more than ever, the crossborder mobility of people.
in writing. the european union is facing major demographic structural changes. the working-age population has practically stopped growing. an immediate response to this crisis is certainly the migration of highly qualified people, including students and researchers from outside the eu. i have decided to vote in favour of the council's position at second reading because i believe that there is an urgent need to act in this area in order to harmonise the legal framework in this area between the member states and to extend this legislation to trainees from third countries. promoting people-to-people contacts, mobility, in particular of students, trainees and researchers, leads to the transfer of knowledge, know-how and promotes competitiveness. concrete action is therefore needed to fully implement article 79 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which calls for a common immigration policy to ensure the effective management of migration flows and fair treatment of third-country nationals legally residing in the member states. we therefore call for greater commitment and coordination in visa management and on the issue of procedural rights and guarantees, as the rules in force are not sufficiently clear and binding.
in writing. ‒ whereas article 79 tfeu states that the union is to develop a common immigration policy capable of organising migration flows and of ensuring that third-country nationals who are legally resident therein enjoy fair treatment; in line with this mandate, the proposal on the provisions for researchers, students, pupils, unpaid trainees and volunteers responds to the needs created by the europe 2020 programme. in view of the above, i do not intend to support the positions taken by my colleagues and therefore i shall vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report is an important directive, fully in line with the spirit of free movement within the union's territory and in line with the objective of strengthening cooperation with third countries. the directive aims to simplify and thus encourage the entry and residence of third-country nationals in the european union for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work and training exchanges. i support the original proposal of the council and have voted in favour of the text of the report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of this directive extends the legal pathways to the eu and facilitates the entry conditions for third-country nationals who want to come to europe for the purposes of study, traineeship, volunteering, exchange programmes and equal employment. the text provides for the harmonisation of the conditions of entry and residence within the union for these categories. the member states retain the option, but not the obligation, to apply the provisions of the directive. the directive contains important measures for researchers: the european commission has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of the internet in the european union. finally, students and researchers will be able to stay for nine months after finishing their studies to look for work in europe. we believe that the right to study should not be subject to any bureaucratic obstacles or restrictions, and that is why we voted in favour of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this directive which establishes new entry and residence rules, which are simpler for people from third countries to study or do research in european universities and which are aimed at improving conditions for trainees, volunteers, pupils and peers from non-eu countries. i also believe that it is necessary to attract highly qualified people from within the eu and to encourage them to stay in the eu through a harmonised european system applicable in all member states. with this simplification, european universities will be able to strengthen their competitiveness on the global stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the reception of students and researchers from third countries. as i have learned in my home town of padua, home to one of the oldest and most prestigious universities in italy, only the exchange of ideas from around the world generates a fruitful and innovative scientific and academic debate. this is a consideration which can be extended to the european level, especially as we have to deal with the ageing of the population and the shortage of qualified personnel in many new technical fields. i therefore fully support the proposal to unify the two previous european legislation on the reception of researchers from third countries and to increase the rights and protection afforded to them. i hope that this text will pave the way for a greater integration of foreign researchers in european territory, encouraging a fruitful discussion between member states on the subject.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is currently the main form of investment and development that the european union reserves for its regions. to this end, the strategies developed in this field are designed not only to reconcile european objectives with the specific needs of the territories, but above all to make the most of their peculiarities and richness. however, the results obtained in the previous programming period were not the best: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the resolution proposed by the committee on budgets proposes some changes to the acceleration of cohesion policy. i have decided to abstain, however, because i believe that, in order to really encourage the development of these territories, it is essential to proceed with the development of more significant action plans.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the main source of public investment for many member states and, more generally, a crucial tool for bringing the union closer to its citizens. the 2014-2020 regulations, as amended, have extended their flexibility, allowing for a more coordinated use of esi funds and improved links between the eu and regional actors. despite these efforts, the first two years of the new programming period have seen the persistence of obstacles and problems, largely due to insufficient information and a lack of resources; the commission has also proposed that the regional and local authorities should be given the opportunity to present their proposals to the council. in this context, i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the acceleration of the implementation of cohesion policy. the text, approved by parliament, calls on the commission to commit itself not only to ensuring simplification of procedures but also to supporting the strengthening of administrative capacity in the implementation and evaluation phases of policy. the central point is the full use of the flexibility provided for in the stability and growth pact. only in this way will it be possible to boost investment for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the resolution on the implementation of cohesion policy. the eu's foolish policies are increasing economic inequalities between member states rather than reducing them. that is why european funds, which should be a contribution to solving the problems of the territories, are instead a form of control of these by the eu. we need to rethink the whole mechanism of european funds to make it an effective aid for our territories and our citizens. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the severe economic crisis, which has led to liquidity problems and a severe shortage of available public funds, cohesion funds have become the main source of public investment in many member states. despite the absolute need for these funds, the absorption capacity of many member states remains surprisingly low. the main obstacles are lack of information, lack of transparency and the separate management of the different european funds. to fully exploit the potential of financing, effective structural reforms, pro-investment policies and the full application of the flexibility provided for in the stability pact should be encouraged. this report, which i support, clarifies the main challenges for the future in implementing operational programmes, promoting cooperation, synergy and transparency to avoid the dispersion of funds and helping europe's regions to become more competitive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important to make the implementation of cohesion policy faster and more efficient, because the financial instruments made available by the structural funds, if applied effectively on the basis of an appropriate ex ante evaluation and in strategic combination with grants, can significantly increase the impact of funding, thus helping to offset the negative effects of public budgetary contractions and to develop revenue-generating projects.
in writing. ‒ thanks to the union's misguided economic policies, cohesion between the eu's regions is getting weaker by the day. thus, implementing the europe 2020 objectives means widening macroeconomic inequalities between and within member states (think of the gap between padania and italy, which, due to the crisis and austerity policies, has never been so wide). in other words, there is this paradox: the more european funding you use (so you are "virtuous"), the more you have to increase public spending (co-financing) but, at the same time, cut services because of the constraints of the stability pact. it follows that it would be more efficient and profitable if each member state spent this money on its own, without having it transit through brussels. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. the union funds, although conceived as an instrument for compensating for imbalances between member states, are in practice a mechanism for amplifying these imbalances, which takes place through the use of the two principles of co-financing and conditionality; the commission's proposal is to set up a european monetary institute (emi) to monitor the budgetary policies of the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission to take all the necessary measures to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020. due to the accumulated delays in the approval of regulations, regional operational programmes (rops) were not created before 2015 and this led to a shift and accumulation of funds to be spent. i share the request to the commission to assess the state of play of the implementation of the cohesion funds for the period 2014-2020 and to prepare a detailed analysis of the risks of decommitment and to indicate the measures envisaged in order to avoid decommitment as far as possible. it is also appropriate that the task force on programming 2007-2013 continue to support and accelerate the implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes in all member states to make up the backlog already accumulated, and that the european parliament be informed of the action plan on the activities of the task force. member states are also invited to play their part by fulfilling the ex-ante conditionalities by the end of 2016 in order to ensure a smooth implementation of the programmes and avoid any suspension of interim payments.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes some changes in the name of accelerating the eu's cohesion policy, which is currently the main form of investment and development the european union reserves for its regions. i decided to abstain because i believe that to really encourage the development of the union's territories, it is essential to proceed with the elaboration of more significant action plans. in fact, looking at the previous programming period, the results obtained were not the best: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ two years have passed since the start of the new programming period and the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, and delays are already being experienced, partly due to the late adoption of operational programmes. the economic crisis is causing a lot of liquidity problems for the member states and consequently for the regions which, associated with the constraints of the stability pact, are at serious risk of compromising the implementation of the esi funds and with them the benefits for businesses and for the territories. cohesion policy funds are often the only source of public funding. i therefore believe that the commission must be more open to considering the use of flexibility if we want to see development processes in our territories take off. with the resolution adopted today, which i voted for, we wanted to call on the commission to engage in a permanent dialogue with the member states with a view to maximising flexibility in relation to investment for growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ i believe that we must respond as quickly as possible to the lack of cohesion between the various member states that make up our european union. we are talking about a very large cultural, social and economic heritage and although we are really united in many things it is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done in this respect. the cohesion policies must therefore be accelerated to reduce as much as possible the territorial disparities, to enable all regions to become more competitive and to facilitate investment, including private investment. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which in my view expresses a clear political position, in that it seeks to direct part of the european structural and investment funds towards improving cohesion between the various member states.
in writing. ‒ progress in the implementation of cohesion policy in several member states and regions for the period 2007-2013 has been partly hampered by obstacles due to insufficient information available to potential beneficiaries, resulting in the submission of ineligible projects, slow project approval, long and complex award procedures, difficulties of member states and local authorities in complying with the requirements for internal and external implementation of the stability and growth pact. i therefore support, by voting in favour, the objective of this resolution to provide for the period 2014-2020 information on the obstacles already encountered and strategies to overcome them with a view to effective implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ in the previous programming period, delays were caused by, among other things, insufficient information available to potential beneficiaries, slow approval of major projects, the absence of administrative structures responsible for managing investment in major projects, complex and unclear award procedures, and difficulties in accessing funding. we cannot, for the sake of the credibility of cohesion policy itself, allow ourselves to accumulate delays on delays, from the approval of the multiannual financial framework to the incredible case of some operational programmes approved only six months ago. we will also never agree on the link introduced in this programming between 'sound economic governance' and the structural funds (with possible suspension of the latter as provided for in the infamous article 23) or on the assumption of the need to promote the so-called 'structural reforms', which some even say are essential for a more effective cohesion policy. unfortunately, the structural reforms which the italian government is proposing to its citizens are anything but in favour of transparency, participation, development and the fight against unemployment. for these reasons, i shall abstain in voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution which would only have the opposite effect, namely to widen the macroeconomic disparities between member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as there has been significant delay in the implementation of the cohesion policy funds and efsi funds for the 2014-2020 periods. at a time when parts of europe are still experiencing significant economic problems and when there is urgent need for public investment in the economy, the funds available must be put to use as fast as possible. i hope the commission will push forward with these implementations and provide technical assistance where local or regional governance capacity does not fit the set out criteria for receiving funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the acceleration of the implementation of cohesion policy because i believe that cohesion policy is one of the eu's most important investment instruments, as it has enabled entire regions to converge economically, emerge from the crisis and boost growth in times of crisis. therefore, an assessment of it at this stage could provide the commission with useful information to feed into the debate on future cohesion policy post-2020. in the 2007-2013 programming period, major problems were identified in the implementation of cohesion policy in several member states; in many cases this was due to insufficient information available to potential beneficiaries, which resulted in lack of access to the relevant funds. i therefore believe that the increase in the use of funds by the regions will also depend on administrative capacity at national, regional and local level. finally, i agree with the ep's position that strengthening administrative capacity for the implementation and policy evaluation phases and good governance can help to improve absorption capacity, and i share the need to encourage relevant structural reforms in line with the objectives of territorial cohesion policy and sustainable growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020, cohesion policy represents the union's main method of investment and development for all its regions. for some member states, the structural funds are the main source of public investment and the instrument by which the union is closest to its citizens. the objectives of strategy 2020 are achieved through a coherent interaction between growth and development policies. this policy plays a key role and should be harmonised with other eu policies such as the macro-regional strategy, the digital single market, the energy union, research and innovation in order to better contribute to the achievement of its objectives. the implementation of cohesion policy has been delayed by two years since the start of the new programming period. the commission will send the ep a summary report on the programmes of the funds each year, and a strategic report will be drawn up to monitor and summarise the progress report of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the proper link between growth and development policies and structural reforms is necessary to ensure the full implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. with a budget of over eur 350 billion, cohesion policy is the instrument through which the european union invests in its regions and gets closer to its citizens. i therefore believe that the call to the commission to provide detailed analyses and the call for greater coordination between the parties concerned can help to achieve the objectives set. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the union's cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020, is the main source of public investment in some member states and thus plays a key role in the growth and development of europe's regions and cities. the 2014-2020 regulations introduced important reforms in cohesion policy, such as thematic concentration, a greater focus on results and better coordination with economic and social policy. however, two years after the start of the new programming period, the implementation of cohesion policy continues to suffer from significant delays. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to do more to fully exploit the potential of the european structural funds, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, to strengthen social and economic cohesion and to reduce territorial disparities. the analysis of the period 2007-2013 shows that the main problems were due to insufficient information available to potential beneficiaries and to long and complex award procedures. the commission's establishment of a high-level group to ensure greater transparency and simplify procedures is therefore very positive.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the commission and the member states to take action to ensure that the union's cohesion policies are effectively implemented. the report calls in particular for a review and relaunch of these policies by exploiting the potential of the structural funds and the european investment fund. i voted in favour of this resolution, together with the ppe group.
in writing. the european union aims to achieve five concrete objectives by 2020 in the areas of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy. in order to achieve these and to address the different development needs of all european regions, eur 351,8 billion has been earmarked for cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. in this resolution, parliament called on the commission to accelerate the work on the introduction of simplified procedures in order to strengthen social and economic cohesion and thus reduce territorial disparities in the european union. to this end, administrative competence at national, regional and local level becomes a key prerequisite for achieving timely and positive results in cohesion policy. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission proposal is not what we expected, and it is far below our expectations. this parliament voted by a large majority a month ago in favour of the kyenge-metsola report, which called for the dublin and the unfair first-country criteria to be overcome and went further, calling for the centralisation of the examination of asylum applications, which would become a european responsibility. the message from this house was clear: dublin must be overcome and it is absurd to keep it alive artificially. we were calling for a truly ambitious and necessary reform, and unfortunately it was not, the principle of the first country of arrival was left intact and an emergency approach was adopted. when for years 6 out of 28 member states alone have been dealing with almost 80% of asylum applications, perhaps it no longer makes sense to speak of an emergency, because it has become structural. the 150% criterion that triggers automatic distribution is strictly mathematical and abstract, and does not take into account the strength of the reception systems, some of which are already collapsing. as regards financial solidarity, the frontline countries have already been given financial support, but it has not been enough. are we sure that we can monetize the solidarity, the rights and the duties which also derive from our treaties? it is good that the new mechanism covers all asylum seekers, without any discrimination on grounds of nationality, and that it is also desirable to strengthen family reunification and to give greater protection to minors. it is a pity that the preferences expressed by the applicants are not taken into account in any way, as this parliament has already asked. mr commissioner, commissioners, we have a lot of work to do. i hope that together we will rediscover the bolder spirit of the european immigration agenda, isolating the selfishness of governments and aiming higher. my group and i stand ready to work with you constructively and will not rest until the common response is up to par. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i think your question is more directed at the governments in the council than at me, and i think they have not even started the relocations they promised to do in september last year. the numbers are ridiculous: the commitments were 160 000 and 1 200 to 1 400 people were relocated. there is a problem of political will. i think that the european governments should be reminded that articles 78 and 80 of our treaties already require full solidarity between member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we do not like this dublin amendment. we are talking about reform, so something that should presuppose something new. so i ask myself: what is the alternative to boats that this amendment offers? how are the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between member states, which are principles enshrined in article 80, being respected? how is the first country of entry protected, which still has the greatest burden in terms of responsibility for and examination of asylum applications and the management of landings? why wait until a country collapses, is in extreme distress, and then trigger the automatic relocation mechanism? i hope that this mechanism will work, because a member state can decide to wash its hands of it, to pay the fine of eur 250 000 and thus not accept any asylum seeker. we have long been aware of the failure of this dublin system. the five star movement has been clamoring for change, but it wanted change that was strong, effective, real. a change that unfortunately did not come. the commission has simply proposed the implementation of the old dublin system, maintaining the status quo, and so we are basically making the same mistakes again. voluntary relocation, as we have seen, has not worked. we have seen that it has not worked and it must be acknowledged that the commission has tried to undertake an attempt to sanction member states which oppose the relocation of migrants. but here too, instead of a fine - which then falls on the pockets of the citizens, falls on the taxpayers - we are looking for something stronger, something which can really act as a deterrent, we are looking for the suspension of the right to vote for those countries which refuse to cooperate, for those countries which violate article 80 of the treaty. we keep saying it, we keep saying it: the commission has already made a number of proposals. a european system for the management of asylum applications is needed, based on common criteria to be applied by all member states. asylum seekers must be seen as people who are asking for help, asking for solidarity from the whole european union, not from individual member states. we must implement a system of permanent resettlement which is really compulsory, we must provide for a binding european resettlement programme, the creation of humanitarian corridors, those legal pathways of access which are still lacking today, which allow applications for international protection to be made in the embassies of the european union in third countries, and thus guarantee legal and safe pathways of access to the european union. the future common european asylum system cannot be reduced to a balancing of interests between member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached a formal proposal to amend the dublin iii regulation, which we have been asking for, urging for and calling for for the last two years, and which represents the real anomaly in the european reception system. that is why i welcome this proposal very much, although i would have preferred to debate a text which would have radically changed the dublin 3 regulation, removing the exclusive competence of the first country of entry for the processing of applications for political asylum. but it is still a very important step forward, which confirms the practical application of the principle of solidarity in the relocation of migrants in the event that a member state is the object of a particularly significant flow. i also agree, unlike many of my colleagues, with the mechanism identified, namely a substantial penalty of eur 250 000 per migrant, provided it is actually applied, which i believe can be an exceptional deterrent for member states which do not intend to follow up on relocation. i also support the strengthening of eurodac, the transformation of easo into a genuine european asylum agency, facilitating returns and combating irregular migration in a very determined way. that is why i welcome this proposal with great satisfaction. i hope that the council will speak the same language as parliament and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is no solidarity in the management of migration flows, there will be no solidarity in any other area. these are the words that you, vice-president timmermans, said a few weeks ago, words which we thought would follow ambitious but realistic proposals. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. "who does not receive payment". a mere calculation of figures of people to be transferred from one member state to another with a bureaucratic approach that does not take into account other factors. the proposal presented is nothing more than a palliative for the first-country countries. yet less than a month ago this house voted in favour of a fundamental revision of the dublin regulation, in favour of a centralised european asylum system. we have asked to go beyond the first-member-state criterion and to abandon the emergency approach once and for all. solidarity is a fundamental principle of our system of government and not a mechanism to be triggered when a member state is overwhelmed. for our part, mr president, we will fight to change this proposal and to bring about a reform which will rebuild a climate of trust and cooperation between the member states, asylum seekers, the european institutions and all the various actors involved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing the same thing: the same lies, the same useless words. today the commission is presenting the reform of the european asylum system. but what reform are we talking about? if asylum seekers have to apply in the first country of entry, so italy and greece, and not directly to the eu, why do you call it european asylum? don't play with words, don't make press releases like you did last week two long pages to say that everything has changed when nothing has changed, don't come and tell people living in italy like me that we have to control the borders, because we have been saying this for years, but it has never been done. meanwhile, illegal immigrants are arriving and in 2016 there will be 300,000 in italy, and as europol says, among them there are also potential terrorists. don't talk about relocating migrants who have arrived in italy, because i've heard that story before. only 1 145 people were relocated between september 2015 and april 2016. nothing but 160,000 as you promised. a failure! european immigration policy is a big failure and you haven't realized it yet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to commissioner avramopoulos. commissioner, i ask you: but if you come here - and i counted that you touched your phone and looked at it at least 30 times - or your ipad - but you don't care about what is said in this chamber or do you do your own thing and come here just to be present? because if we're just talking here to play, then there's no point in him coming or taking a stretcher, going back there, sleeping, and then when he's done, he says his message that he's already written and it's all over. we are not going to let the european parliament be the judge of the future. instead of going around europe and going to refugee camps or going to catania, doing good in sicily, to say that everything is fine, that the sicilians are good and that the italians are all happy! false, false and false! we do not want the so-called refugees because they are not refugees, only 5% are fleeing the war, everyone else comes to italy just to get by and the italians are tired of this situation. the same is true of greece. what about the rest of europe? he comes in here and he whines and nothing changes. thank you, chief.
in writing. the commission decision adopted today is a first step towards a european right of asylum, although it is not sufficient in view of the necessary revision of the entire dublin system. it is no coincidence that pope francis recently noted: "i dream of a europe where being a migrant is not a crime but an invitation to greater commitment, with the dignity of every human being". it is a moral duty not to turn our backs on the tens of thousands of women, men and children who are knocking on our door. only a shared solution, which leaves no room for nationalist egotism, can live up to europe's standards. in this respect, europe's commitment to human rights must not be undermined, and it is essential that agreements with third countries and the related economic contributions be linked to respect for fundamental freedoms. a common legal immigration policy is the condition for preventing migrants and refugees from falling into the clutches of illegality and being left to the mercy of degradation and crime in order to survive. we therefore abandon the closure of frontiers and the anachronistic suspension of schengen and we regain confidence in ourselves and in each other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the end of schengen would mean the beginning of the end of the european project. the harmful consequences would be incalculable for all european citizens, who would suddenly find themselves in a europe fragmented into small states, prey to national egos. we would lose the great achievement of being able to move easily from one point to another in europe: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. if i think of my country, italy would be left alone to manage the flow of migration. schengen can and must be saved for the future of a true europe, with a global and holistic approach to the whole phenomenon of migration, together for an ambitious change of dublin, to establish humanitarian corridors, humanitarian visas and admissions, to strengthen legal channels of immigration, to intervene on the deep causes that move people from their lands. and finally, a strong foreign policy and development cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, restoring the full functioning of the schengen system is the sine qua non for the creation of a true europe. we must defend the schengen treaty with all our might, putting an end to short-sighted and sterile nationalism, as we must do now. the free movement of persons was already one of the objectives of the single european act and schengen is one of the most tangible achievements of the european union. closing borders to curb migration flows is tantamount to pushing back the integration lancet. the suspension of the schengen treaty can only put an immediate end to the security emergency, but it will not make up for the absence of a common policy for all the member states on immigration and asylum and the lack of a concretely integrated and functioning system of police and external border control. it is a common responsibility and a duty towards history to make solidarity prevail over scepticism and fear.
in writing. the outdated schengen system could have very serious repercussions on the transport and tourism sectors and risk jeopardising the survival of the internal market, with an estimated cost of between eur 5 and eur 18 billion per year to the european economy. to these huge economic costs would be added the inestimable political costs, the consequences of which could be far more lasting and onerous. we therefore have a duty to save schengen, not only to guarantee our citizens and workers their right to free movement and mobility, but above all in the name of the far-reaching political project of european integration, as envisaged by the founding fathers of the union. to achieve this, i hope that the timetable set out in the commission's roadmap for the return to normal functioning of the schengen area, which calls for the elimination of all internal border controls by the end of this year, changes to the european asylum system and reinforced control of external borders, will be strictly adhered to. i hope that member states will make much faster progress in implementing the commission's roadmap before it is too late to safeguard one of the main achievements of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-turkey deal or no deal is illegal and we all know it. today we're talking about visa liberalization, and now i'll tell you what you'd like to do: you want to water down the 72 requirements to flatter erdoğan, to hide the blatant failure of the quota system. you want to hide our european dust under a turkish carpet. you would like a hypocritical and hasty yes, and i feel sorry for the turkish people, who are my and our friend and have done a lot for syrian refugees. but the truth is that these rulers, who criminalize press freedom and social media, who turn a blind eye to borders while jihadists do the dirty work against assad, who use the anti-terrorism law (untouchable, for erdoğan) to persecute kurds and political opponents, no, they are not and can never be our friends. so i'll tell you what we'd like to do: we would like to reject the blackmail of those who use despair as a weapon, of those in syria who are part of the problem and not the solution; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and yes, that 6 billion tip to erdoğan we would give to greece to help it get back on its feet after the blows suffered in the name of your austerity. and yet today you are putting us members of parliament in front of the fact, as powerless spectators of an illegal and immoral democracy. this agreement must be challenged before the court of justice. parliament must vote on this legitimate request of ours, mr president! you can't keep lying to us that everything is under control. because if there is a control, it's definitely not ours.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sweetened version which we heard at the beginning of this debate from commissioner avramopoulos contrasts, unfortunately for him and for the intelligence of those who listened to him, with the reality which emerged from almost all the speeches, which is the reality of a police state, which imprisons journalists, which even persecutes, abroad, in european countries, the authors of political satire - in fact, this happens on occasion, even in our own territory. but it 's a very serious matter . it is a police state in the hands of an autocrat who is blackmailing europe even as we are debating the visa issue. so i say: it is a shock of dignity for this european union, which is being blackmailed by a jerk like erdoğan. to negotiate on such delicate matters would be like sitting at a gambling table with a professional lawyer. contrary to what we are led to believe, this is not a formal question, it is a substantive one, it is a turning point of a historical and political nature, in the face of which a total reversal of europe's position is demanded, from a historical and political point of view, which makes us ashamed of the memory and paintings of schuman, de gasperi, franz josef strauss. the german masters who rule this europe have forgotten their founding fathers, who will surely turn over in their graves to the idea of this sold-out europe, of the founding principles of this europe, which you are betraying to hand the poor immigrants into these hands. i remember how many times during the last parliamentary term the libe committee went to see how we italians kept poor migrants in the reception centres in lampedusa. but why does europe, which wants to take in more refugees in turkey, not check how turkey is taking in asylum seekers and immigrants? to entrust them to such is an act of hypocrisy in comparison to which even trump would look like mother teresa of calcutta. it's a disgrace! it's a disgrace!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many factors which make us look with extreme concern at the developments in turkey. and i think i can say that only a stupid and short-sighted politician can pretend not to notice. immediately after the announcement of the resignation of the turkish prime minister, erdoğan defiantly reiterated that turkey would not yield to european demands concerning turkish internal policy, thereby denying himself the agreement reached with the european union on the management of migration flows. what, then, is to be done? i think the first thing to do is to return this tone of defiance to the sender, first by blocking visa liberalization until all the answers are given in the affirmative. europe cannot afford to be blackmailed by the turkish president. the fragile balance on which the compromise between the european union and turkey is based may be broken if erdoğan continues on the path of intransigence and the cancellation of freedoms, and the turkish president, not we, will have to bear all the responsibility for this.
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to ask the colleague who has just spoken (i subscribe to everything he has said, so i agree with him): if there was a magic wand and you were the commissioner instead of avramopoulos, who we don't know for sure is sleeping or is still awake, what would you do?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr erdoğan has recently stated that ankara does not intend to make any changes to its anti-terrorism legislation. yet the revision of the legislation on terrorism is one of the requirements that turkey must meet in order to obtain visa-free travel from the european union. it would therefore be logical to suspend the discussion of the visa abolition dossier with turkey, just as it is logical to question the goodness of the agreement with ankara on the management of migration flows, an agreement which, as is well known, does not provide for any concession as regards respect for human rights. the european union therefore needs to put in place a more effective verification system to ensure that all the requirements of the agreement are met and to ensure that refugees and migrants are treated appropriately and in line with european standards. europe cannot accept any threats or blackmail from turkey, especially on rights and values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that liberalizing visas for turkish citizens would be a serious mistake, which would consolidate the european union's current state of difficulties and, above all, weakness towards turkey. it is beyond dispute that a positive relationship with turkey would be very important to us, both in the future and in the management of the emergency and today. the problem is that we are faced with a country which not only avoids the checks which the union asks of it, but which in the meantime objectively worsens the existing conditions. turkey has been particularly outspoken in recent months in its attitude towards the kurds, in its questioning of the agreements and respect for relations with cyprus; it is a question of the fundamental rights of the people who live there, it is a question of the freedom of the press, individual freedoms have been reduced to the light. is it possible to ignore all this and proceed in separate segments as if nothing happened? i think that would be a serious mistake, particularly in the case of visa liberalization.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal which i have heard and which we have read seems to me to be rather timid. i am glad that commissioner moscovici is calling for country-by-country reporting, for it to be public, but i doubt that his boss, mr juncker, and also the president of the eurogroup, mr dijsselbloem, are particularly in favour of it, precisely because their countries have enjoyed this tax system for more than 20 years, so it will be very difficult to find a compromise. there is no compromise on these issues, because the 1% of the population is against the 99% instead of suffering. so here politics must make a serious examination of conscience and move in one direction, that of the citizens and not of the lobbies and the multinationals. the credibility, with juncker in charge of this ship that has to go towards that kind of legislation, is absolutely not credible. they want to keep, by the way, a lot of the information confidential in this proposal. so there really is no basis for starting. and it doesn't mention the banks, which are the ones that handle all the money flows. i mean, we could take action there, put sanctions in place. the panama papers are an example of this, the banks are handling all the flows and giving advice on how to evade. we're a little tougher, especially with these.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think it is right that you have taken up the issue of tax harmonization and especially transparency with great courage, even when it was not on the agenda and in the public eye because luxleaks and the panama papers were not yet recurrent topics, they had not yet attracted the attention of many commentators. but i must say to you, with the same frankness, that the system proposed to modify the solutions indicated by the oecd is inadequate. the risk is that the good intentions are being frustrated by the objective limitations which have been set out here in the implementation of the directive. the problems are essentially twofold, as you know and as you also mentioned in your introduction. the first is the threshold: the threshold is too high, 750 million is roughly equivalent to 2 000 companies. paradoxically, such thresholds risk penalising smaller firms. the proposal which was made in committee, and which the commission did not accept, of 40 million was for 15 000 companies. the second theme is that of scope: the reporting must be public in all jurisdictions. only the combination of a much lower threshold than that proposed and, on the other hand, the extension of the scope of application will give content and also effectiveness to a totally acceptable action, such as the one you have described.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has taken on considerable proportions and has become one of the main concerns of europe and the world. increased transparency of tax information is essential to counteract aggressive tax planning. unfortunately, the current legal framework does not yet provide for the mutual exchange of country-by-country reports between member states. the instruments and mechanisms established by the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation should therefore be strengthened. i welcome the proposals concerning the threshold for multinational companies to be required to report by country, the designation of the competent authority, the scope of information exchanged and the timetable for implementation and the reporting interval. i also think that parliament's involvement in the tax transparency process is crucial. to this end, it would be desirable for the european commission to present an annual report summarising the main findings of the member states' national evaluations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that i feel a certain embarrassment whenever proposals to combat tax evasion are discussed. we are making very small steps forward, sold as big victories, but in reality the basic situation is always the same, with the same criticisms and problems that nobody wants to deal with to the end. but what else can we expect from a commission headed by the mastermind of luxembourg's tax relief and a council headed by the netherlands, one of the tax havens within the eu? is the european parliament a guarantor of a more intransigent line? not exactly. but i do not know what we could hope to do differently if we ourselves, among our legislators, are convicted of tax evasion. on this particular proposal we are at least asking that all information be made public and accessible, otherwise in a few years we will still be here being hypocritically shocked by situations like luxleaks without anything really having changed.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we seem to be facing a commission suffering from a very serious form of bipolarism, because when i speak of the social package, of social reforms, of upward convergence, the only package i have seen is the third aid package for greece. the third package was approved a few days ago, and it is not a package of aid, but a package of aid to die. we have condemned greece to breathe its last. but it's a pity that as we're here talking, just a few miles away, people are dying, people are getting sick, they can't be cured, parents can't feed their children and they are dying inexorably. so it 's true . we must either accompany social policies with economic policies which are courageous, coherent and actually deliver results, or we will continue to talk about them. and as we sit here and chat, there's a people dying, and the responsibility is ours.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the change that citizens are asking us to bring is part of a strong and tangible commitment by the european institutions to promote policies that really tackle inequalities. the austerity policies focused on cutting public spending have decimated the rights chain. i think of the thousands of people who suffer the discomfort of deprivation, i think of the thousands of people who give up on care, not to mention the thousands of families who are homeless because of unavailability of income, not to mention the young people who give up on building a different future for themselves in the paths of training and education. i think about the jobs that are not there, but i also think about the jobs that are there and that remain inaccessible to many people. i therefore think that we need to finally face up to poverty, commissioner, by promoting policies that increase opportunities for the most vulnerable people, more effective public policies geared to inclusive growth. it takes courage, of course, it takes innovation within a new paradigm, that of inclusive development right now, because there is no more time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and the question which have been put forward have a very specific purpose: the effects of the growing disparities between rich and poor in our societies cannot be ignored and we must ask the states in particular, but also the commission itself, to do more. the deterioration of wage policies and social protection systems at national level is exacerbating the risk of poverty and social exclusion. inequality produces individual tragedies and also threatens the very essence and future of the european project, as well as being a real obstacle to growth and economic progress. as the oecd study shows, today the richest 10% of the population earn 9.5 times more than the poorest 10% - a peak in the last 30 years. this requires a new development path, an effective programme that will require considerably more policy action and budgetary resources than at present and must be contextualised in a sustainable development strategy that includes environmental, economic, social and cultural dimensions. finally, income inequality is closely related to inequality of opportunity. the generation of children and adolescents who are growing up with deprivation and exclusion will only be able to fulfil their potential if they are given the support they need and if measures are taken to break the cycle, otherwise we will force them into permanent marginalization.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe almost a quarter of the population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the number of people living in severe material deprivation has increased by 7.5 million in 19 countries of the european union, reaching 50 million. inequalities in europe have generated deep and complex dynamics and have been a major obstacle to economic recovery. it is clear that the policies pursued by the various states and by europe itself have a considerable impact on increasing or reducing inequalities: poverty and rising inequality are not inevitable, but they are often the result of poor policy choices - i think of economic theories of austerity or tax systems that are often unfair and not sufficiently progressive. initiatives need to be put in place to stimulate growth by reinvesting resources in public services, ensuring decent wages and quality and sustainable jobs for all. only in this way will we be able to project our society towards inclusive and sustainable economic growth in the european union and thus achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andriukaitis, today's debate provides an opportunity to debate a subject which is very important to our citizens. on behalf of the envi committee, whose position i represent here, i would like to stress the need for mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods. following a number of food scandals across europe, there is a growing sense of urgency to ensure clear information for consumers and greater transparency and accountability in the agri-food chain, and as direct representatives of the citizens we are making these demands our own through this resolution. specifically, the measure covers types of meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat, meat in processed products, milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, unprocessed foods, single ingredient products and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food. in fact, as a eurobarometer survey shows, in 2013 around 90% of citizens in the european union consider that the indication of origin for these foods is necessary and it clearly shows that this is one of the factors likely to influence consumer behaviour. the envi committee therefore considers that the obligation to indicate the origin on the label is essential to ensure transparency and traceability and to reassure and rebuild the trust of european consumers who ask for the indication of origin. on 20 may 2015, the european commission published a report on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance, accompanied by a study on milk and other meats, which shows that the costs of mandatory origin labelling for milk used as an ingredient in dairy products increase in line with the complexity of the production process. the envi committee considers that these costs are overestimated and that the same study by the european commission suggests that some member states have overestimated the impact of mandatory origin labelling on their competitive position, as no clear explanation for the high expenditure forecasts provided by them has been found. the report which is to be voted on tomorrow therefore calls for the establishment of a european commission working party to further assess the report and its impact in order to determine whether these costs can be reduced to a level acceptable to businesses, especially small and mediumsized ones. the envi committee also stresses that the overall willingness of consumers to pay for information on origin is relevant. many consumer studies on wtp show that consumers are widely willing to pay more for information on the origin of the products they buy, although the european commission has told us that it is rather modest. before concluding, i would like to reiterate that the envi committee confirms its call on parliament to support the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance and calls on the commission to implement it by drawing up legislative proposals in the areas mentioned. it also urged the commission to submit legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory, in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers in the wake of the meat scandal and other cases of fraud. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is our duty to give our european consumers complete and clear information about the origin of many of the foodstuffs that are part of our diet. it is a matter of sharing the goodness of a general principle which makes it possible to establish a system capable of enabling informed and transparent purchases. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to give us its views and i would urge that the political will of this parliament be respected, if supported by the majority of members, by preparing a number of sectoral legislative proposals, which we are of course prepared to deal with and analyse on a case-by-case basis and which will have to take account of the transparency and legibility of information for consumers, while at the same time allowing european companies to operate in an economically profitable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to label indications of origin provides guarantees for informed consumer choices and the opportunity for european producers and processors in the agri-food sector to compete better on the markets. in this connection, we note a real paradox: the lack of transparency and the opacity of the labelling situation create unfair competition mechanisms which violate the rules of the free market, and which are then used by the very opponents of the indication of origin on the label to highlight negative aspects of the indication of origin. a genuinely free market is based on transparency, it does not hinder but rewards production with high food safety standards. a genuinely transparent market does not encourage unfair competition, based on imports of low-cost agri-food products of dubious quality and origin. the commission's reports show that the costs of ensuring transparency in the food chain may prove too high and that consumers, although interested in such information, would not be willing to support it. however, these reports are incomplete and do not sufficiently take into account the positive aspects of the indication of the origin of products, such as increased consumer confidence in the products they consume and greater awareness of the choice. i therefore call on the commission to re-evaluate its proposal in the light of more objective studies and to give due weight to the benefits to consumers of the indication of origin. i would remind you that voluntary labelling schemes have had positive results in several member states both in protecting the right to information of consumers and for producers, who have no or little impact on production costs. in the face of the absurdity of the timidity shown by the commission, parliament is called upon to respond with clarity to the demands of the citizen-consumer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the desire of the european citizens to know the origin of agri-food products is clear and legitimate and we as legislators must ensure that our consumers are given complete, transparent and non-distorting information. we already have legislation requiring the labelling of the origin of many foodstuffs, including all fruit and vegetables and almost all meat. we must now go a step further and extend the european obligation to other areas in a progressive manner. the sensitivity and the more advanced positions of some countries, such as italy, for example, can be an incentive to arrive at a single european legislation. our citizens are asking us to be informed and we must ensure that they have transparent labelling which informs them but does not condition their choices, as in the case of the 'traffic light' labelling system adopted by some british supermarkets.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for giving the commission the opportunity to have an exchange on a highly important issue: hydroelectric power. first and foremost, with 40% of all renewable electricity generation, hydropower is europe’s largest renewable energy resource. hydropower will continue to play a key role within the european energy union as it will contribute to the delivery of the three priority objectives of security, sustainability and competitiveness. the commission aims to give all electricity generators equal access to hydropower concessions. the granting of equal access will have a positive impact on investments, on local communities, thanks to higher fees paid by concession holders, on the integration of hydropower in the electricity market and ultimately, on consumers. the commission is well aware of the economic, legal, social and environmental aspects of hydropower generation. member states remain, in principle, free to design their models for the exploitation of hydroelectric plants. we do not question the member states’ competence to impose relevant obligations on hydropower operators when granting hydropower concessions. in this way, member states can strike a balance between competition requirements and other legitimate interests. however, member states must respect the relevant european union law, for instance when a member state decides to exploit those plants via concessions, european union public procurement rules need to be respected. this ensures not only an adequate level of competition but also equal treatment and transparency among the economic operators. in this context, european union public procurement rules are infringed when the initial duration of a hydroelectric concession is extended to the benefit of the incumbent concession holder without due justification. the applicable european union law may be different depending on the approach chosen, but that does not necessarily exclude the operation of hydropower generation from the scope of european union law. where applicable, national hydroelectric concession regimes should respect european union energy rules, such as the electricity directive, as well. indeed, competitive procedures for hydropower concessions and fair treatment of economic operators are important for a well-functioning energy market. finally, when granting hydropower concessions, the eu member states may be subject to eu competition rules, namely antitrust and state aid. a member state that grants hydropower concessions to a dominant public company may infringe antitrust rules when this has anti-competitive consequences by creating unequal conditions of competition allowing the dominant public company to maintain or strengthen its dominant position on the relevant electricity market. the granting of hydropower concessions may qualify as state aid if several conditions are met: if state resources are involved, a selective advantage has been granted to certain companies in the relevant electricity market and there is an effect on trade and a distortion of competition. first, state resources have to be involved, for example, in the form of state revenues or fees that could be foregone. second, a selective advantage has to be granted to certain companies over their competitors in the relevant electricity market. third, there must an effect on trade and a distortion of competition, which is likely to be the case since electricity is sold across member states on competitive markets.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the hydropower sector is crucial to achieving the decarbonisation targets and completing the single energy market. unfortunately, the situation of concessionary schemes is not uniform in europe. there are countries with concessions without expiry, others with the possibility of renewal and still others who are liberalizing their market. this in fact prevents a genuine level playing field for operators; the result is a loss of competitiveness for our firms. it is therefore clear that the promotion of a uniform regulatory framework is necessary if we really want to create a level playing field in market access on the basis of open and fair competition. with the oral question at the beginning of this debate, commissioner, we are asking you how the commission intends to promote greater convergence in the european hydroelectric sector, taking into account the differences in concession schemes and procedures. we therefore ask you to play a more active role in this area, not just to be concerned with compliance with the competition rules. the existence of too many different concession schemes in the hydroelectric sector is further proof that the time has come to change the rules of competition at european level. these rules must be designed and developed in the service of and in the interest of enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, and not by pursuing abstract bureaucratic processes which end up putting at risk employment and growth in europe, but also the competitiveness of our production system in the world. so, commissioner, i realise that you are not responsible for the sector, and i know very well - having done so many times - that the commissioners in this house are not responsible, but i ask you to be a proactive part of a stronger initiative by the commission, because action to monitor compliance with the rules alone is not enough if we really want to support the hydropower sector.
i shall not dwell on the importance of this sector, its economic value (just think that its economic contribution is equal to the gdp of slovenia), because you, commissioner, have already mentioned this importance. but i want to tell you quite frankly that what you have said is absolutely abstract and does not correspond to the reality of this sector, the problems and the needs for intervention. as has been said, there are obstacles to be removed. the first is the diversity of concession schemes and the whole procedure for the use of hydroelectric resources in the different countries: this has a distorting effect and a very unbalanced impact on competitiveness, investment certainty and the possibility of using this source. second obstacle: the commission has different and opposing approaches, directorate by directorate, not day by day, but directorate by directorate. the competition directorate does one thing, the environmental directorate does another, and different countries are threatened or have totally different and random infringements. i 'll tell you more: if there is no coordinated approach, we end up with the current paradox: some countries, like mine, are being penalized, there is a breach of the law because the liberalization has not been completed very quickly. other countries, which have 90-year schemes, with no time limits and no competitive procedures for concessions, have no call, nothing. i say this, commissioner, because i too ask you to make a very specific statement - it will not be up to you, but it will be up to someone in the college - in order to have a homogeneous regulatory framework, without which there will be no real competition and no real market (the things you have mentioned), and also to have a different and comprehensive approach to infringements. europe is not a good example if this is being heard in different countries and each department is sovereign and opposed to the other. i believe that in this way we will also help the single energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have two very specific points to make (the timetable forces me to be very practical and simple). in europe the commission needs to know there are many ways of awarding hydroelectric concessions: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and then there are also countries where tenders are held regularly, so that at the end of the concession period, there is a subsequent tender. there is a legal and economic problem in these countries which the commission has apparently not taken into account properly, because if the depreciation of investments lasts longer than the concession, it is normal that there is a residual depreciation at the end of the concession. the successful tenderer will therefore have to pay the remaining depreciation to the previous concessionaire. it is a very simple economic and legal concept. the commission did not understand this and therefore intervened by punishing countries which applied this rule, which is a rule of transparency and competition. so i think it is right to support those who invest, but it is also right to support those who, through free competition, decide to guarantee investors the normal rules of the market. it is good that the commission is aware of this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are debating a very important subject today. in paris, we agreed on a comprehensive global commitment to a major reduction in climate change. and to do that, we need to have new energy, alternative energy, low-carbon energy. hydroelectricity is one of them, it's the main one, it's the one that also allows us greater flexibility in the production process. but hydropower in europe is severely undermined because there is a risk that there will be no more new investments, there is a risk that there will be no replacement of existing investments because of the absence of a homogeneous regulatory framework. some colleagues have spoken of unfair conditions of competition: it is the reality, it is the most serious problem, also because it is not possible that in the same market - in that single energy market which we want in europe - there are some who retain privileged positions, enjoying the unique opportunities they have in the national market, and who then have the possibility of going to other markets, while for others the national market is in fact open but they do not have the possibility of going out. so, commissioner, that is why we need a new and homogeneous regulatory framework, which puts everyone on the same level, guarantees competition and encourages investment.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank maria arena in particular for her work. it was a pleasure to be able to work together on a document which, in my view, is a strong document coming out of this plenary session and which will certainly be widely shared. our priorities are: we asked for parental leave to be extended and to be applied equally to both the public and private sectors. we had called for social policies to support families which were really responsive to needs and could in some way stimulate parenting (europe is getting older, but conditions are needed to allow parenting). we asked for extended parental leave and full pay for those who benefit. we had asked for teleworking and smart working as a way of better reconciling private and professional life. these were our priorities, as well as child services that fully guaranteed the possibility of being able to really make the choice of parenthood.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt: there is a demand for change in the european institutions so that they finally take responsibility for building a people's europe in which women have full citizenship rights. and full citizenship comes through the promotion of a new culture of shared parenting, and therefore through a redefinition of parental leave. but there's more: not only sharing care work, but an innovative vision of reconciliation policies through the promotion of public policies that invest in creating new infrastructure that is still accessible to low-income and middle-income people, but also new work balance models that make more flexible the organizational models of both public services and the work of the business system. so it is an important commitment to give value to women's time, to their lives, which is made up of care work, but also of a new desire to be protagonists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we shall support this report, even though we believe that many of its points are outside the remit of the femm committee. we are satisfied with the heart of the dossier, however, because it focuses mainly on two factors: the european union is also committed to the principle of non-discrimination, and to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. however, i regret that i have not seen any reference in this dossier to a form of trafficking in human beings, especially infants, which needs to be discussed more: i'm talking about the surrogate mother. we recall that the council of europe expressed its opposition to this practice last march and that we also adopted an amendment condemning it in this house last december. so i hope that there will be more opportunities to address this issue that sees women, as well as children, as the main victims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings is a top priority for the european union. the strategies adopted so far in the field of crime control, trafficking and victim assistance have been many, but the results are, alas, far from reassuring. the international community must make an extraordinary effort to prevent inhuman and degrading situations. the intolerable phenomenon of human trafficking is not only the result of economic and social inequalities: it is also a result of gender inequality. structural discrimination means that 80% of the victims are women: women and girls, and often children. finally, i would like to stress that the trafficking of migrants and the trafficking of human beings, although they represent different phenomena, often tend to overlap. a well-balanced and appropriate response could therefore be found by a careful analysis of the latest trends, including the influence of the current migration crisis on the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mass deportation of the crimean tatars began in 1944 and involved more than 230 000 people: many of these were lost, and others were not able to return to their homelands until the 1980s. discrimination against this minority continued in the following decades by both the soviet and ukrainian governments, which administered crimea in turn. we are still hearing very serious reports of the persecution of political leaders and activists belonging to the crimean tatar minority. what i am asking loudly is that parliament and the european institutions close the shameful page of silence that has been kept for too long on these events, but that they do so without pursuing a double purpose of a political and strategic nature. it is shameful that europe has forgotten the minorities of crimea for years, but it is even more shameful that they are remembered only for secondary purposes. i ask that these serious facts be taken into account and treated for what they are: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. all other political and strategic considerations must be relegated to the background.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time in a few months that we have spoken about the tatars, and it is a demonstration of the european parliament's commitment to this minority, which has opposed the annexation of the peninsula by russia since the beginning of the ukrainian crisis and is suffering from severe pressure and discrimination. i am also deeply concerned by the decision of the sinferopol court to declare the mejlis, the local crimean tatar parliament, an extremist organisation and to ban its activities. this ban indicates a new level of repression against the community as a whole, and it is necessary for this that there is a strong call from our side. we are committed to taking the necessary steps to quickly repeal this measure and above all to avoid any intervention which would silence political dissent and silence this minority which has already suffered great harassment in its history.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the gambia, power is being brutally wielded by a dictator who has wiped out freedom and democracy. it has been 22 years since 1994 when yahya jammeh, who came to power at the age of 29 in a military coup, promised to end the corruption, nepotism and poverty of the dawda jawara regime. since then, however, there has been nothing but fear in gambia: members of the press, human rights activists, homosexuals and more generally opponents of the regime are under attack, in any capacity, even if only perceived. the president proudly displays his picture at the white house with barack and michelle obama, not caring if journalists and opponents are disappeared or imprisoned and tortured in his country. we call on the gambian authorities to release all those who are being illegally detained. we call on the gambia to ratify the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and to take all necessary measures to end discrimination, attacks and criminalization of the lgbti community.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a climate of terror is reigning in the gambia, which is driving a large part of the population to emigrate. according to frontex, the gambia, despite its small population, is among the top six countries by number of migrants reaching europe. as mentioned, journalists, human rights defenders, members of opposition parties and civil society are constantly intimidated and persecuted for their ideas in this former british colony. arbitrary detention without charge is commonplace, as is torture and other inhumane treatment during detention. there is no doubt that the european union must make all economic aid conditional on respect for human rights and that the european union must also be involved, together with the african union, in monitoring prisons and the conditions of prisoners. a legislative amendment is also essential to decriminalize homosexuality and to relax the government's control over information.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the death of solo sandeng we can no longer tolerate the arrogance and arrogance with which the security forces in the gambia systematically suppress all voices of dissent in the country. with this resolution, we want to say no more to the rhetoric of hatred, to the disappearances and arbitrary killings, accompanied by constant attempts at coups d'état. we are facing a lack of democracy in a country that is due to go to elections in a few months, attacks on fundamental freedoms, reforms within the criminal code, violent criminalization of the lgbt community, as well as arbitrary killings and torture. we therefore call on the gambian government to consult the gambian government as soon as possible in accordance with the cotonou agreements and to consider measures such as the freezing of non-humanitarian funds going to banjul and targeted sanctions such as travel restrictions for those responsible for these human rights violations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the gambia, one of the poorest countries in africa and the world, where more than a third of the population is now living below the poverty line of $1.25 a day. freedom of association and expression is completely suppressed by the brutality of the yahya jammeh regime, which has been in power for more than twenty years and has even prevented the cure of aids by imposing a method of traditional herbs - the only solution in the world, as he says - which is condemning to death thousands of people. it is also one of the most homophobic countries in the world, with the crime of homosexuality aggravated, which even provides for life imprisonment. the death penalty is unfortunately applied very extensively. the demonstrations of april 2016 were completely suppressed by the police apparatus, and we must therefore intervene by freezing all aid - even the remaining ones - that do not go to the people of the gambia, but to the dictatorship, and by imposing immediate sanctions on the president's family and entourage.
in writing. since 2009, the eu has engaged in an international dialogue to address the ongoing violations of human rights and the rule of law in the territory of the gambia. torture and other forms of ill-treatment are now commonplace. human rights defenders and journalists are constantly subjected to abuses, harassment and intimidation. the government of the gambia must shed light on the continuing disappearances and arbitrary detentions and must also take all necessary measures to stop discrimination and attacks against lgbti people. i am confident in the commitment and joint action of member states and international organisations to protect fundamental rights and freedoms.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that djibouti is a perfect example of the european union's enormous weakness in terms of development cooperation and respect for human rights. the urgent resolution is the only weapon the european parliament has to ask the high representative for a major diplomatic engagement in djibouti. we would like to remind the house that djibouti's gold is represented by its strategic location, which attracts a lot of western military investment, but also by china, which has invested more than 8 billion dollars in the country's infrastructure and will now have its own military base for 10 000 soldiers and is exerting increasing influence in terms of diplomacy and development cooperation. in djibouti, despite this massive presence of foreign military personnel, many of whom are european, there is one human rights violation per 100 inhabitants. we believe that it is time to urge the prosecutor of the international criminal court to monitor the situation in djibouti to see whether the attacks against the population are crimes against humanity. we want those responsible to be investigated and punished according to international law.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many cases in africa of political regimes in which the transmission of power and public office is carried out according to family dynastic criteria, and djibouti is an example of this. the current president has given key posts to his sons, grandsons and sons-in-law. the result is a kind of nepotism which excludes the people from the management and participation in national wealth. the majority of the population lives in conditions of extreme poverty, aggravated by the presence of somali, eritrean and yemeni refugees fleeing the surrounding conflicts. the situation of human rights is of great concern, particularly the legal inferiority of women in many fields and the state monopoly of information. the international community and the european union have a clear duty to denounce president guelleh's responsibility for human rights violations and repression of those who oppose him, and the european union must act as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the small state of djibouti president guelleh has now established a de facto dictatorship based on violence, nepotism and corruption. the elections have been reduced to a mere farce amid repression, intimidation, arrests, enforced disappearances, torture and violence of all kinds. france, china, japan and the united states, many of whom have understood its geostrategic importance and have military bases there, are clearly even more serious when you consider the presence of refugees from yemen and somalia, in a regionally deteriorating context. can that be enough to shut our eyes? no, we think not. if this resolution is an important first step, we reiterate that the prosecutor general of the international criminal court must investigate the violence and that article 8 of the cotonou agreement must be applied, and that the 105 million euro must be suspended, because it is not possible to help a regime that is thus harassing its own people. the position of djibouti cannot be an excuse for our silence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that once again we are not getting to the heart of the matter. we are talking about countries, and each country has its dictator, there are misfortunes, there is no democracy. was libya better before, when gaddafi was there, or now? it is obvious that those who have money - europe, japan, china - exploit the situation, but what is the end result? what is the end result of this situation? the bottom line of this situation is that it's okay. the arab spring, which many here have had their mouths full of, was a crazy shit. what was the arab spring? this is crazy shit! in the end, africans want dictators, because democracy in africa doesn't work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting we express our deep concern for the safety of those who, fleeing war or hunger, attempt to reach the arabian peninsula via djibouti every year, risking their lives by sea or by land to reach north africa. we need strong democratic institutions. we call on the government of djibouti to ensure the safety of those fleeing, and to bring to justice those traffickers of death who have made real fortunes on the lives of thousands of desperate refugees. tragedies like those we see in the mediterranean too often occur silently thousands of miles south of europe in the gulf of aden. the refugees must be protected by dismantling the criminal network, by fighting human trafficking, by tracing financial resources, but also by countering the local exploitation racket, to which the refugees are easily exposed.
in writing. ‒ the resolution has as its objectives the fight against tax evasion and fair tax competition. to this end, information on the tax sector should be transparent and public. we believe that the commission should have strong powers to go beyond the limits of confidentiality imposed by banks. these points have not been accepted by the other political groups, and for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been fighting crossborder tax avoidance, tax competition and aggressive corporate tax planning for years. these are issues that have become increasingly important not only in europe but also in the world and therefore require more effective legislation, in line with the growing importance of the challenges to be addressed. the rosati report, which i supported with my vote, identifies mandatory automatic exchange of tax information as the key to curbing tax avoidance and tax competition. under the new legislation, multinational companies will be required to provide country-by-country reporting in accordance with a standardised model from 2017 onwards, if their total consolidated turnover exceeds eur 750 million. member states will be required to make this report available to the other countries of the union, through an automatic exchange procedure. a crucial role should also be played by the commission, which, with full access to the shared information, could assess whether tax practices comply with community state aid rules.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field, which i supported with my vote, is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms.
in writing. ‒ the problems of crossborder tax avoidance and evasion, which generate harmful tax competition and distort competitiveness, have taken on considerable proportions, becoming one of the main sources of concern at the global and european level. to address this, the european parliament and the other eu institutions have repeatedly called for greater transparency and automatic exchange of information in tax matters, and for measures and mechanisms to curb this phenomenon, such as country-by-country reporting for certain multinational companies. i voted in favour of the resolution adopted today, as it calls for the strengthening of the existing instruments in this field and argues for the need to identify new mechanisms to combat unfair or aggressive tax practices and thus reduce the incidence of the phenomenon within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is important to establish a mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field between all member states in order to combat the increasing phenomena of tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. this system has the advantage of making the control of the tax authorities more effective and the whole community will benefit from this.
in writing. ‒ it is unacceptable that some eu member states or some of their dependent territories do not share the eu's fight for tax justice and against tax evasion and corruption. the automatic sharing of information between the member states of the union is a necessary and fundamental step towards tax harmonization and justice within the union and in the fight against the evasion of large capital holders. that is why we must firmly support this decision, as well as any effort to combat tax injustice within the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ the challenge posed by crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has taken on considerable proportions and has become a major concern in the union and globally. the commission proposal clarifies the country-by-country reporting arrangements for multinational enterprises and calls for the information collection centre to be included. i would stress that on the one hand, a greater role for the commission in tax matters will affect one of the last prerogatives of the member states, but on the other hand it is plausible that the monitoring of tax evasion at community level by large multinational companies will find a central coordination of the information provided by the national authorities. i also took into account the possible political significance of the vote in the light of the recent incidents involving several multinational companies in the eu, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the amendment to the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation which defines the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on country-by-country reporting. the proposal aims to put a stop to crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax competition harmful to the european union by introducing a transparency obligation requiring multinational groups of companies located in the eu or with operations in the eu, whose total consolidated revenues are equal to or greater than eur 750 000 000, to report country by country. the competent authority of the member state which received the return will then communicate that return, by automatic exchange, to any other member state in which one or more constituent entities of the multinational enterprise group are resident for tax purposes or are subject to tax for activities carried out through a permanent establishment. i welcome the criteria introduced concerning the information to be exchanged and the imposition of a reporting deadline of 12 months from the last day of the reference tax period of the multinational group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question because, although the final text for the plenary had some criticisms, our requests to increase the level of publicity and transparency of the data collected by the commission were subsequently accepted.
in writing. ‒ i therefore voted in favour of this report because i think it highlights the basic premises for effectively combating tax fraud, a phenomenon that is dangerously increasing.
in writing. ‒ in the face of recent news of the global proportions that fraud, tax evasion and avoidance have assumed, european solutions to tackle this problem have become a priority. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution which strengthens the european commission's proposal on the automatic exchange of information in the tax field. i voted in favour of greater transparency in taxation throughout the european union. i believe that the automatic exchange of tax information between multinational companies and national authorities is an important step in facilitating the work of national tax administrations in monitoring the profits of multinational companies, in order to verify that taxes are paid in the country where those profits are made. to that end, it is important that the tax authorities of the member states have access to complete and relevant information and that that information is exchanged both between the tax authorities of the member states and with the european commission.
in writing. the fight against tax evasion and avoidance is one of the main challenges facing us as legislators. aggressive tax planning and tax competition have required ever greater transparency of information through the introduction of country by country reporting for multinationals. as a delegation from the five star movement, we wanted more publicity and transparency of the information, as well as its publication on line. the failure to accept our amendments on this point makes this report imperfect and to some extent undermines parliament's commitment, which is nevertheless very good, to a more effective fight against tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on administrative cooperation because i believe that greater transparency is needed in the exchange of information in the tax sector. i welcome the introduction of specific requirements for the automatic exchange of country-by-country reporting information between national tax authorities and the classification of information to be reported by multinational enterprises for each tax jurisdiction. i also consider it appropriate to provide for a threshold for the identification of companies required to provide information.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i believe that more controls against tax evasion are needed.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as it will introduce a much needed directive to combat major tax evasion and avoidance; the proposals aim to focus on multi-national enterprises with large assets in several countries. i think this is a good and important part of the proposal as it is the multi-national enterprises that have the means and infrastructure to avoid taxes on a grand scale. it is important that we keep red-tape and bureaucracy for medium and smaller-sized companies as well as individual citizens to minimum and in this regard i welcome the proposal’s focus and restriction on the ‘country by country’ reports to major multi-national enterprises with assets over eur 750 000 000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the amendment of the proposal for a council directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, because i strongly supported, first of all, the explicit extension of the scope of the automatic exchange of information to combat not only tax fraud but also the equally important phenomenon of tax evasion. it is essential for the union that tax rules are designed in such a way as not to undermine growth or investment or to constitute a competitive disadvantage for companies in the union, nor to increase the risk of double taxation; it is also essential that such rules are designed to minimise the administrative costs and burdens for companies. in line with the important work of investigating the phenomenon of tax rulings, i supported the reference to the ep resolution of 25 november 2015 on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, to the parliament's report on the proposal for a directive on the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and to directive 2013/34/eu on corporate governance. member states are now able to tax the profits of large multinational groups and ensure that they are taxed where they are produced.
in writing. i support the report as it stands. the ep, referring to its econ and taxe reports, called for greater transparency on tax information to counteract aggressive tax planning, and for the introduction of country-by-country reporting (cbcr) for multinational groups of companies. the draft provides for the amendment of directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in which member states do not provide for reciprocal exchange on a country-by-country basis; the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. ‒ as the world economy becomes increasingly interconnected, there is a need for more capacity to control multinational groups in the single market. so it is time for a unified system for the exchange of information in the union so that businesses and member states can work more efficiently. i have supported this report because i believe that everyone will benefit from its initiatives.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax area, as it allows the union to make progress in the harmonisation of the regulatory framework necessary to achieve, in the near future, the harmonisation of tax regulation. this report focuses in particular on the tax status of multinationals and the need for greater transparency. the starting document for the parliamentary debate is the oecd beps text, which identifies the legislative procedures needed to strengthen the tax union and the exchange of tax information between eu countries. the report also encourages the use and sharing of country-by-country reporting (cbcr) for multinationals. the beps plan is a strategy that aims to reduce and in some cases even eliminate the inconsistencies in european tax systems that allow some companies to artificially shift profits to where only a small part of the company is present, which often does not generate output, simply because there are incentives that allow them to reduce their tax contribution to the european economy. the beps plan has gained worldwide relevance since it was signed by the g20 finance ministers at the shanghai conference last february.
in writing. - on the proposal of my colleague, i would like to say yes. tax planning and competition are particularly aggressive and damaging to the european union today. therefore, greater transparency in this area, through the exchange of information on the revenues, profits and capital of multinational enterprises, is seen as essential. i would therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a priority for the union and its member states to act decisively in the face of the challenge posed by fraud and tax evasion, which have now reached intolerable proportions. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to counter aggressive tax planning, greater transparency with regard to tax information is urgently needed and in this regard the automatic exchange of information is an important step. the instruments and mechanisms established by directive 2011/16/eu need to be strengthened to achieve this objective and to counter unfair tax practices in the field of business taxation: the aim is to promote a european and international standard for tax transparency. this directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation already provides for the mandatory automatic exchange of information in a number of areas, but its scope needs to be extended to achieve the mandatory automatic exchange of reports between member states, which is not yet provided for in the current legal framework. the commission should then have access to the information exchanged in order to ensure compliance with the relevant competition rules.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will oblige multinational companies with total consolidated revenues of eur 750 million or more to report on a country-by-country basis in the member state where the group's main parent entity is resident for tax purposes. this member state will then have to share this information with the other member states in which the company operates. the directive will also set deadlines of 12 months for reporting after the end of the fiscal year and a further three months for the automatic exchange of information. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i believe that in order to assess whether tax practices are in conformity with community state aid rules, the commission should have full access to the information shared between the different national tax authorities. at european level we must promote virtuous tax behaviour in order to ensure equity and social justice. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive on which this report focuses concerns administrative cooperation and the exchange of information in tax matters within the union. i voted in favour of certain amendments to the original report which aim to make it compulsory for member states' administrations to exchange information and to promote the need not to undermine the competitiveness of union enterprises through the risk of double taxation or additional administrative costs.
in writing. ‒ we did not vote in favour of the latest draft directive presented by the european commission, as it still contains many criticisms. we asked for the data to be made public and transparent, but the majority still preferred to keep it confidential. in fact, the multinationals subject to reporting (less than 10%) will only have to submit a limited number of tax data, leaving out important information (for example where subsidiaries, public subsidies, assets, etc. are located) and distorting the taxation calculation. the key issue, the one concerning the banks, is not addressed. the banks are not mentioned in the draft resolution. there is no form of regulation for banks which are crucial in ensuring effective tax transparency. recent scandals like the panama papers and swissleaks show who the real drivers of the great tax evasion and avoidance machine are. with this proposal, it is clear that the european commission wants to protect the big tax evaders and the powerful instead of helping to create a fair and transparent tax system.
in writing. this proposal for a directive is unfortunately a timid step towards real transparency and a tough fight against tax avoidance, which the commission has promised in words after the recent tax scandals. the creation of an automatic mechanism for the exchange of information is an essential part of this, but it is clearly not enough to put an end to the opacity, inefficiency and inequality of the present system. the proposal lacks any really strong and credible measures: the problem of banks - through which all legal and illegal financial flows pass - which, as emerged from swissleaks and the panama papers, played a central role in supporting the great evasion, is not raised in the slightest, and sanctions are obviously not envisaged. in addition, the transparency rules on the information that multinational companies are required to report on their activities in each country in which they operate, so-called country-by-country-reporting, will apply only to companies with revenues exceeding eur 750 million, i.e. only 10% of all multinational companies operating in europe, and these companies will also be able to benefit from exemptions that allow certain information to remain confidential. it is scandalous, considering the scale of the phenomenon of tax evasion and the companies involved. for these reasons i could not support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field. at present, member countries do not share information on taxes paid by multinational groups. the report suggests that each member country should be required to report on the taxes paid by multinationals. i am convinced that this report lays the foundations for a more transparent tax system and that transparency is the first weapon to combat tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, known as dac4, was voted on today. the challenges posed by tax evasion and avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax competition have called for increasing transparency of information through the introduction of country-by-country reporting for multinational companies. the previous legislative framework (directive 2011/16/eu) was revised with the entry into force of the recent directive 2015/2376/eu which introduced the automatic and mandatory exchange of information from 2017. although the final text gives the commission a greater role, there are still major shortcomings in terms of publicity and transparency. in fact, the reference to the publication of information online was not accepted by the other political groups. another critical point is that sensitive data can benefit from confidentiality. the amendment calling for the application of the public corporate tax credit to all large companies and not just to multinationals with revenues of more than eur 750 million, or only 10-15% of all multinationals operating in europe, was unfortunately not passed.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest market for fishery products. the proposal recognises that consumers have a right to be informed in an understandable manner. in this context, the commission is considering the creation of an external structure for the certification of fishery products. the committee stresses the need to indicate the origin of fishery products in a clear and transparent manner and encourages the commission to promote more effectively its action to protect marine resources and combat illegal fishing. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the largest market for fish products in the world, but a number of studies have confirmed that there is a very high rate of mislabeled fish, much of which is directed at the food and catering sector. the reduction of food fraud and mislabelling must be a priority, which is why i have decided today to vote in favour of the joint resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products tabled in the european parliament. clear, transparent and comprehensible information on fishery products should be provided to all consumers by activating mechanisms that allow species to be identified with certainty, including the use of methods such as dna barcodes. the commission should aim at the creation of a european-wide eco-labelling scheme, funded through the european maritime and fisheries fund, correcting the confusion caused by the current labelling obligation based on zones and sub-zones defined by fao.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote aims to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail. i think this text is balanced and acceptable. any effort we can make to ensure that our citizens have the utmost transparency about the products that end up on their tables is worthwhile, necessary and worth supporting, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that a robust traceability system from landing to consumption is put in place, which will instill consumer confidence and at the same time reduce the dependence of trade on imports of fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market. i also believe that, for the sake of improved traceability, the commission should exploit the full potential of the dna barcode, which could help identify a species by dna sequencing.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution is largely agreeable and stresses the need to put in place an essential instrument, such as origin labelling, to combat abuse and fraud (at different levels of the fisheries supply chain) affecting the fisheries and aquaculture market. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today to express my serious concern about the alarming cases of mislabelling of fish which have given misleading information to european consumers. the replacement of one fish species by another, cheaper and less valuable, is nowadays not too difficult: the high number of intermediaries between catching and sale, the increasingly widespread processing of the product, an apparently flawless traceability and the fact that 65% of the fish consumed in europe is imported with less quality controls have made the trap easy. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to strengthen controls and to review both the functioning of the fisheries chain and the legislation on fish labelling. the effectiveness of the genetic barcode as a tool for tracing fishery products should also be better exploited. this innovative method allows the identification of fish species with a far higher degree of reliability than all other diagnostic methods previously used. it is therefore essential to create a european network against food fraud in the fisheries sector, proposing a wider use of dna testing to prevent any kind of fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail sector, as i did not find any particular criticisms in the text.
in writing. ‒ a strong political position is needed from the european parliament to address the problem of fraudulent and incorrect international labelling in the fish market, which is obviously a criminal offence under eu rules. i therefore voted in favour of this report which seeks to improve traceability and to introduce a sound european policy on labelling in the fisheries sector. i believe that these elements would be key to boosting the economic development of coastal communities and would be available to consumers for better and more transparent information on the product. i believe that information on the origin of fishery products should be provided in a clear and transparent manner, and this report, in my view, is moving in that direction. these are the reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ mekong pangasius, caught in some of the world's most polluted waters, is turned into herring or cod on restaurant tables, or senegalese sole, which is easily turned into soleola for the unsuspecting european consumers sitting at the table. this is what recent studies reveal, reporting numerous cases of "fish fraud": the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. these are clear cases of mislabelling, apparently widespread in europe, caused by misleading information and an ineffective system of control over the traceability of products. now, as the resolution i fully supported underlines, a strong commitment is needed from the member states and the union to put in place a better and more effective labelling system that ensures the full traceability of fishery products from the moment they are caught to the moment they reach our citizens' tables. responsible and above all conscious consumption is a social and food choice which every european citizen has the right to exercise: the union must therefore ensure that clear, transparent and complete information is provided on the origins and species of all food products, including fishery products.
in writing. a number of worrying cases of mislabelling of fish, revealed by dna analysis of 280 fish samples by ngos, showed that about one third of the fish analysed were mislabelled. this is a very bad practice and needs to be tackled, both in the case of errors in the production chain and, obviously more strongly, in the case of outright fraud to the detriment of consumers. i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out a series of recommendations and actions to be implemented at european and member state level to achieve better control of fishery products, consumer protection and the protection of our seas, which are increasingly at risk from illegal fishing practices and over-exploitation of resources. the introduction of a union eco-label for fishery and aquaculture products could be a first step towards improving traceability and providing transparent information to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution which stresses the need to make the use of an essential instrument, such as origin labelling, to combat abuse and fraud.
in writing. ‒ commitment to promoting the right to health of citizens is an objective that requires the utmost care on the part of europe. we therefore consider that food safety policies, like those for consumer protection, deserve particular attention in our parliamentary work. providing accurate information on the real traceability of food, and fish in particular, in shops, supermarkets and restaurants means investing in transparency and security of supply, in ensuring that minimum safety standards are met, and in a more effective control system for customers. i therefore agree with the proposal in the oral question on traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail, which i fully support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution of the ep, which the committee on fisheries interpreted, on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail sales, because i believe it is necessary to react to the recent food fraud scandals in the retail and trade of fishery products for the catering and restaurant sectors, which have highlighted the unfortunate practice of replacing high quality species with lower quality specimens. i think that the european commission must take action against a practice, namely fraudulent labelling, which is not only dangerous for human health and violates basic commercial and consumer protection rules, but is also linked to the problem of illegal fishing and is therefore a violation of the rules of the common fisheries policy. i therefore support the request to the commission to examine possible measures to establish a sound system of product traceability, which would give consumers confidence and also reduce dependence on imports from third countries. we are therefore awaiting the legislative proposal for a labelling system which will guarantee transparency and credibility in the certification process and protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ considering the eu's leading position in the world as a market for fishery products. whereas consumers have a full right to know the geographical origin of the fishery products they consume and of the whole supply chain; whereas the european union has a duty to protect its citizens against the risk of fraud; moreover, given that, despite the european commitment to traceability, the data on the labelling of fishery products for some species are not fully compliant and the risk of fraud is still high, i believe that greater traceability is also necessary in order to reduce europe's dependence on imports of aquaculture and fishery products. i would therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a strong european fisheries labelling policy would be a key element in boosting the economic development of coastal communities and highlighting the quality of products supplied to consumers. the need for such a policy stems from the disappointing labelling results with significant levels of mislabelling of fishery products sold on the union market, despite this being a violation of eu regulations as well as the rules of the common fisheries policy. the commission and the member states should therefore take steps to combat fraud and to identify the stage in the supply chain where fish is mislabelled. national controls, including on unprocessed fishery products intended for the food and catering sector, should be strengthened and the information on labels should be monitored at regular intervals, as labelling should provide comprehensible, verifiable and accurate information enabling the consumer to make an informed choice. it would also be important for the commission and the member states to promote awareness campaigns on the labelling requirements for fishery products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution with the ppe group, which strongly urges the commission to take note of and act on the traceability of fishery products as the most efficient way of preventing food fraud and perpetuating fraud in consumer information. as the report itself points out, the adoption by the union of high quality and guarantee standards will strengthen the single market, increase consumer confidence and reduce dependence on imports.
in writing. ‒ a recent study commissioned by an ngo revealed that in restaurants in brussels, almost a third of the fish tested was not the fish promised on the menu. unfortunately, for many years now, there have been many complaints in the eu about incorrect labelling of fishery products: for example, a pangasius is mistaken for a herring or fish are bleached with hydrogen peroxide. intentional and fraudulent mislabelling is not only a violation of the common fisheries policy and a detriment to honest workers, but can also pose a serious risk to the health of the consumer. i therefore supported parliament's resolution calling for a strong traceability system from landing to consumption for all fish products sold in restaurants and shops in the eu. finally, i hope that controls will be strengthened to combat fraud and to identify in good time the stage in the supply chain where fish is incorrectly labelled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the oral question on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods. i am firmly in favour of a fair and functional labelling system. consumers have a right to know where the food they buy comes from. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the protection of the health of consumers. i am convinced that this will give citizens a better understanding of the environmental impact of the food they buy and will help to increase consumer confidence. in addition, producers will be forced to control the supply chain more closely and fraud will be reduced as a result.
in writing. ‒ china is currently the european union's second largest economic partner. the member states have always sought to establish economic relations based on mutual respect and fair and loyal cooperation, including in the economic field. the proposal to grant china market economy status has, however, raised a number of concerns. the main doubts were related to the likely harmful consequences for the european market and, secondly, to the strong state influence on prices and products which characterises the chinese economy. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution in which parliament calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed in this connection.
in writing. ‒ the people's republic of china and the european union are among the world's largest trading partners, with a daily trade volume of over one billion euros. the joint motion for a resolution on china's market economy status, which i voted on in parliament today, tackles the thorny issue of whether the asian country should be granted market economy status in the period after 11 december 2016. section 15 of the protocol of accession of the prc to the wto already provides for non-standard methodologies to ensure price comparability which may be applied beyond that date. parliament called on the commission not to grant china unilateral mes until it had met the five criteria adopted by the eu to define such status. the commission has already identified the major social, economic and environmental consequences of chinese overcapacity in the eu and therefore calls on the commission to develop a common strategy in the wto to prepare appropriate anti-subsidy and anti-dumping measures compatible with the international regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ china is not a market economy: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the joint motion for a resolution, unlike the one we have tabled, lacks a clear and explicit call not to grant china market economy status, and for that reason i did not think it appropriate to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the eu and china are two of the world's largest trading entities and highly relevant partners to each other, with a daily trade volume of over €1 billion. it is clear that eu-china trade relations, like all other trade relations, are of fundamental and strategic importance to both realities and we must be aware of this in every decision we take. however, we must also be realistic and say clearly that china is not currently a market economy. in view of the imminent expiry of the clause in section 15 of the protocol of accession of china to the wto, parliament, in the resolution we are adopting today, stresses the importance of taking timely and realistic decisions. state intervention in the chinese economy is still very strong and contributes to a large extent to price formation, preventing a dumping margin calculation based on the conventional methodology normally applied in market economies. it is not a question of raising protectionist barriers, but of protecting our industry from unfair competition until the conditions for truly fair and sustainable trade are created.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that granting china market economy status (mes) is not only extremely dangerous from an economic point of view, especially in view of the current state of the european continent's economy, but also presents several criticisms from a legal and political point of view, given that china, given the enormous state interference in the economy, is certainly not a market economy.
in writing. ‒ since 2001, the people's republic of china has been a member of the wto (world trade organisation) with the status of 'economy in transition' and therefore not yet entitled to market economy status (mes). from the point of view of trade defence, the chinese system is generally inadequate for the purpose of met. the central government, in fact, directs the economy with the intent of creating national champions. the enterprises, often under state control, have access to cheap raw materials and capital, thus altering trade flows and the competitive environment. the main demands made in the resolution, which reiterates its opposition to the granting of market economy status to china, are for greater involvement of the other institutional actors, coordination with the main trading partners and a call for a different system for the calculation of dumping.
in writing. ‒ today's vote concerns the resolutions of the political groups on china's market economy (mes) status. the question of the esm is in fact about the interpretation of the protocol on china's accession to the world trade organization. it contains a section, number 15, which is the subject of intense political and legal controversy. this document allows wto countries to consider imports from china as coming from a non-market economy country and therefore subject to much higher duties (around 30% of the value of the product). according to all observers, including trade commissioner malmström, china has not become a market economy in the meantime. despite this evidence, however, the importing countries of northern europe and multinational companies would strongly like the asian giant to be granted market economy status. this would mean that much lower duties of around 6% could be applied to chinese products. a widespread network of small and mediumsized enterprises and workers' unions is working hard, however, to avoid this tragic scenario.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution today to avoid unconditional recognition of china's market economy status. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. for example, china's steel overproduction alone is now greater than the total steel production of the entire european industry. i ask the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed in the eu by industry, trade unions and the various stakeholders about the consequences for employment in the eu. whatever the eu decides, it will need to think of a 'plan b' which includes equivalent trade defence measures to counter unfair competition practices. the commission must strengthen the effectiveness of its anti-dumping tool in order to ensure a level playing field for the european industry with china, in full compliance with wto rules. i stress the importance of the eu's strategic partnership with china, in which trade and investment play a key role, and i therefore invite the commission to make proposals to protect europe's interests by identifying a third way of finding a solution that satisfies both sides.
in writing. ‒ china has joined the world trade organisation with a protocol that specifically regulates its status and treatment with other global trading partners. the protocol, which provided for the non-automatic recognition of china's market economy status, expired in january 2016, raising a number of concerns for single market member states. china is the european union's second largest economic partner and the member states have always sought to establish economic relations based on mutual respect and fair and loyal cooperation. however, it notes that the chinese economy is still characterised by strong governmental influence and a non-competitive situation between economic actors. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution in which parliament calls on the commission to take due account of the fears expressed in this connection and not to grant china market economy status.
in writing. ‒ granting china market economy status would allow the country in question to trade more easily and therefore allow its products to circulate more freely in our european common market. i voted in favour of this report to express my disagreement with the granting of market economy status to china. i think it is too dangerous not only for europe but especially for italy, because most of the time chinese products do not meet our standards of quality and safety in production. i think that china must first ensure a better level of human rights and protection at work, and greater reciprocity with european products. my intention is to defend the italian economy from the threat of unfair competition, which is why i voted in favour of denying them that status. before allowing trade partnerships, it is essential that there be a fair trading basis in full compliance with our european standards which best protect the quality, traceability and safety of our products, which are so much envied in the world.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament took a strong stand on trade policy, deciding not to bow to chinese pressure and asking the commission to conduct trade negotiations with the country of the rising sun without being conditioned by deadlines (december 2016) and unilateral positions. china cannot be granted market economy status as it has not yet carried out reforms to meet the five criteria required by the european union. with the resolution we have adopted today in this house we have defended our industry which could have suffered serious economic, social and environmental repercussions, as demonstrated by the recent negative impact on the steel industry already weakened by unfair chinese competition. to revive european trade policy we need to protect our businesses through fair trade relations based on mutual respect and fair cooperation.
in writing. ‒ recognising china's market economy status would have very serious consequences for europe and its industry. one of the fundamental problems with the recognition of china's market economy (mes) status is that it opens up a negotiation "downwards" of european standards and principles. the negotiations on wto recognition will be conducted by the european commission and the final decision will have to be approved in strasbourg by the european parliament and the council (the member states). we can therefore oppose the granting of mes to china if we all put the right pressure on the various political groups and governments in the member states. steel, mechanical engineering, chemicals, ceramics, bolting, paper, footwear, textiles and furniture are some of the sectors at risk from the recognition of the sme to china. in view of the very important problems which recognition of the status of a market economy would entail, i therefore vote against. it is essential that the european parliament bases its trade relations on fair terms, in full compliance with wto rules, on mutual respect. i shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the assumption of the recognition of the status of a market economy to china. the country continues to promote aggressive economic policies based on subsidies and dumping, which violate the rules of the free market and put our enterprises and our production system in serious difficulty. the government finances entire sectors of production, allowing products to be exported at costs far below their real costs. a practice of unfair competition which is insidious and harmful to other economies, which are flooded with goods at prices which are outside any market logic. this is putting the european fabric of production in great difficulty, and is taking its deepest roots, especially in countries such as italy, which has always based its capacity for growth on the development of manufacturing. first of all, we must ensure that china respects the essential rules of international trade and transparency in economic relations. only then will it be possible to build solid relations of cooperation which will be beneficial to our economy and to that of china.
in writing. china is not a market economy as it does not meet the five criteria set by the eu to define market economies. granting china market economy status could have devastating consequences for the european market, for employment (3.5 million jobs would be lost) and a decline in gdp of 1 to 2%. a number of manufacturing sectors would be affected, in particular steel, ceramics, textiles and technology. it is necessary to reformulate the trade defence instruments of the european union in order to ensure a level playing field for eu industry with china and other trading partners, in accordance with wto rules. one proposal would be to quantify the carbon content of products and to set it as a percentage of vat, a mechanism that could actually make european industries more competitive thanks to the lower co2 emissions of its production compared to those of the asian giant. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution against the recognition of china's market economy status. while agreeing with the eu's need to explore new trade opportunities, it is clear that there is no free market in china. the state intervenes heavily to determine the prices of goods, and to totally condition the market. whole sectors of the european economy, from steel to textiles to footwear, are already suffering from the arrival of huge quantities of cheap chinese products, and to grant this status at the present time would be a death blow to thousands of european companies and their workers.
in writing. ‒ with today's resolution we have reiterated our strong and clear no to granting china market economy status. china is not a market economy. there's no denying that. as a delegation of forza italia we have said this on several occasions in recent months and we will continue to say it, as we did with the important resolution adopted today, in the adoption of which we played a decisive role. it is now up to the commission to take measures to protect our companies from unfair chinese competition. we cannot afford to weaken substantially and irreversibly the instruments available to businesses, especially smes, to protect themselves against unfair chinese competition. a weakening of our trade defence instruments could be particularly damaging to italy, both in terms of competitiveness and employment. the commission must show that it stands by the smes, workers and entrepreneurs of europe and uphold the principle of genuine and fair competition.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament takes a strong stance against the risks of trade and social dumping that chinese competition could pose. i support the text negotiated by the political groups; it is important to make a joint effort to accompany globalisation and international trade by introducing high standards of social protection and respect for rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative joint resolution on eu-china relations and the status of a market economy because i strongly shared the need, which the s&d group has expressed, to open a public debate on this important and rightly so important issue for the future of the european union, european industry and workers. china is not a market economy as it currently stands, because it meets only one of the five criteria of the wto rules on international trade. in tackling this problem, the rules of international trade intersect with those of the protection of labour, of european industry, particularly manufacturing, and of consumer rights. it would be shortsighted and harmful, however, if we were to tackle the problem by considering only the needs of the latter at the expense of the workers. because then we would end up endorsing phenomena such as social and environmental dumping and unfair competition. europe needs a genuine european industrial policy more than ever, and that is the crux of the problem. it needs it not to protect itself but to re-create conditions for sustainable growth and development and to continue to play a leading role in world trade.
in writing. ‒ china is and remains an important strategic and trade partner for europe, but it is not a market economy. and it will not be until it has met the five criteria set by the eu that define market economies. we have therefore adopted this resolution almost unanimously, which, although not a legislative resolution, will serve as a guide for the commission in presenting its proposal. our aim is to protect european companies from unfair competition and from any dumping which would have repercussions not only on our economy but also on the environment and society. for this reason we have asked the commission to exclude the automatic granting of market economy status to china and to maintain the current anti-dumping measures in line with wto rules. finally, we called on the council to reach agreement with parliament quickly on the modernisation of the european union's trade defence instruments.
in writing. ‒ the trade relationship between the european union and china is very intense. china is the eu's second largest trading partner, while the eu is china's largest trading partner. the failure to consider beijing a 'market economy' does not mean that we are adopting a protectionist attitude towards this important partner; it simply means meeting the five criteria set by the eu to define market economies. for china, these criteria are far from being met, given the current level of state influence on the economy. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the commission has not found that the measures in question constitute state aid. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese imports were not causing injury to the union industry. the wto protocol is, however, ambiguous on the question of the recognition of market economy status after 15 years. action is therefore needed to protect european competition and to safeguard our companies against possible economic, social and environmental dumping. we therefore call on the commission to exclude automatic recognition in the future proposal.
in writing. ‒ regarding the question put to parliament whether or not china is a market economy, i would like to point out that, despite being a member of the world trade organisation since 2001, china still does not meet the criteria that are the basis of a competitive economy. i think that the expiry of the anti-dumping measures is one of the few instruments which can support the production of european products and prevent a loss of jobs. i therefore believe that the commission must ensure that china is committed to respecting the rules of free trade. i would therefore support the position of my group.
in writing. ‒ when china joined the wto 15 years ago, precise rules were established to prevent the economies of other wto members from being penalised by unfair competition practices by chinese producers. the forecast was that by the end of 2016, china would become a market economy. unfortunately, china is still far from having implemented all the reforms necessary to be able to call itself a market economy. the rules for the protection of industry in other countries must therefore continue to apply. the widespread and persistent social, environmental and commercial dumping practices of china would jeopardize the future of the entire european manufacturing industry. millions of jobs and a key share of european gdp are at stake. the s&d group is in favour of free trade, but this presupposes that all firms compete on an equal footing. we are not protecting ourselves, nor is this a vote against china. china, however, is not yet a market economy. i am glad to see that, despite initial reservations, all the main political groups have finally decided to join our position.
in writing. ‒ on 11 december 2016, the member countries of the world trade organization (wto) are to decide whether to grant china the so-called market economy status (mes). such recognition would give the asian giant access to all wto regulated markets. the debate requested this week, with the vote on motions for resolutions, was requested to discuss with the commission the position that the eu will have to take in that circumstance. china is not an ordinary economy and it is well known that many manufacturing sectors do not meet minimum standards for the protection of workers and the environment. moreover, china's overcapacity and the resulting low-priced exports are already having a severe social, economic and environmental impact in the eu, especially in the eu steel sector. we must protect european industry and guarantee the employment of our citizens. while not forgetting the importance of the eu-china partnership and the chinese market, which has been the main engine of profitability for a number of eu industries and brands, i voted against the motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu should not recognise china as an emu.
in writing. ‒ in the delicate debate on the recognition of china's market economy status, i voted in favour of this joint motion, which expresses the position of the epp group and the requests of the italian delegation in particular. it brings together a very large majority of parliament in a clear message to the commission: mes cannot be granted to china without taking into account the criteria established by the eu itself to define a market economy. as china does not meet these criteria, it cannot be considered as a market player in the same capacity as europe. the resolution therefore calls for the legitimate defence of european industry, not against the market but in accordance with the rules of the market. this means protecting the free market, european companies and thousands of jobs at the same time. the resolution also has the merit of presenting a realistic proposal to deal with the problem, to be implemented within the limits allowed by the protocol of accession of china to the wto; in fact, it calls on the commission to use a non-standard methodology for the determination of price comparability for chinese exports as long as china does not meet the eu criteria of a genuine market economy.
in writing. - china is not a market economy. the european parliament has made this clear in a resolution adopted today by a large majority. fifteen years after joining the wto accession protocol, china has not yet implemented the reforms needed to meet the five criteria defined by the european union. i therefore strongly supported the call to oppose any unilateral granting of market economy status to this country. such a decision would undermine the effectiveness of the anti-dumping tool - which currently allows european companies to protect themselves from unfair chinese competition - and would therefore jeopardise the competitiveness of the eu's manufacturing sectors and the entire manufacturing sector. china's overcapacity and the resulting low-priced exports are already having a severe social, economic and environmental impact in the eu, especially in the steel sector. i therefore hope that the european union will not only maintain but also strengthen its trade defence instruments in order to safeguard its businesses and its workers.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on the commission not to unilaterally grant market economy status to china until it meets all five eu criteria. while recognising the importance of trade relations between europe and china and the union's obligations as a member of the world trade organisation, we believe that such a concession would have a damaging effect on industry and employment, by affecting strategic sectors already aggravated by chinese overproduction and making anti-dumping policies impossible. we therefore condemn the commission's attitude so far, which has not taken account of the concerns of industry, workers and citizens, nor has it given sufficient space to public debate, by launching a badly designed and misleading public consultation. we hope that the union will update its trade defence instruments, without exposing its strategic sectors to unfair foreign competition, and find, in conjunction with its trading partners, a balanced solution to restart trade relations between europe and china on a level playing field and with respect for the socioeconomic rights of industry, workers and citizens in both economies. we will ensure that the resolution adopted, although less decisive than the one tabled by our group and rejected by the house, is fully respected by the commission.
in writing. ‒ respect for international commitments and the eu's necessary participation in world trade policies through the world trade organisation cannot be seen as unfairly damaging to our businesses. it is clear to everyone that china is not a market economy. we must therefore act as legislators to protect european businesses, which would otherwise be exposed to deeply unfair competition. it is our duty to prevent millions of jobs throughout europe from being put at risk. this is not a battle against china, our most important trading and political partner, but for fair and sustainable global trade. the future of the european union depends not only on its political leadership or security but also on its economic strength and its industrial weight. we have to always hold it against ourselves when we make decisions like this. for these reasons i think that parliament must speak out strongly against the granting of market economy status to china.
in writing. ‒ by 11 december 2016, the european commission will have to decide whether to grant china market economy status, which would automatically remove all the defence instruments that europe currently uses to counter unfair competition from the asian giant. while european companies have to comply with very strict protocols and constraints, chinese companies are supported by state aid, very low energy costs and the exploitation of labour, including child labour. if china is recognised as a market economy, all anti-dumping duties will automatically fall, and it will be the end of european small and mediumsized enterprises with an estimated loss of 3 million jobs across europe, 400 000 in italy alone. this resolution has the great merit of recognizing in black and white that china does not meet the five criteria required to be defined as a market economy. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers did not have sufficient capacity to supply the union industry with the necessary spare capacity. only then will it be possible to assess whether unfair chinese competition continues to harm european enterprises.
in writing. the resolution, which i voted for, clearly recognizes that china does not meet the five criteria required to be defined as a market economy. if europe were to recognise china as a market economy, all the customs duties currently in force, which are designed to protect european companies from unfair competition from made in china products, would automatically fall. my colleagues in m5s and i fought to stop this concession. we have worked to ensure that a specific amendment is included in the report which clearly states that the european union must not grant china market status. we at m5s fight to defend the excellence of made in italy in the world against unfair competition. the recognition of china's market status, as currently understood by the commission, would have a traumatic impact on the italian manufacturing sector, the world of employment and the country's know-how. to say no to the mes in china is to say yes to the future of italian enterprise. with this resolution we have said no to the esm without question.
in writing. ‒ the objectives and targets of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development must be analysed against a set of global indicators. the resolution calls for the overall consistency of the union's and the member states' action towards these objectives. it refers to the multiannual financial framework (mff) and calls on the commission to draw up a detailed timetable. the resolution therefore contains an excellent approach to european policies for sustainable development. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainable development goals represent an important starting point for charting the way forward towards the political priorities of the global agenda for the coming years, in particular in terms of development, poverty, hunger and malnutrition. the implementation of the sdgs is primarily achieved through the development of appropriate statistical indicators, which allow the implementation of the strategy to be monitored accurately at both the global, european and national levels. the motion for a resolution which i have supported today addresses this priority and also calls on the commission to draw up a communication to define the way in which the 2030 agenda is to be implemented at european and member state level. the eu, through the foreign affairs council, needs to draw up a common position on the sdgs in the short term, to be presented at the political forum next july. in parallel, the commission and the eeas should work to ensure, within the europe 2020 strategy review and in the future eu global strategy on foreign and security policy, strong strategic coherence with the objective of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ despite the text of the shared steps, it remains just another demagogic call to help third countries, without adding anything about a more rational and effective management of this aid. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, adopted at the united nations summit in new york in september 2015, is the document that must provide our guidelines in this area and which the european union must therefore conform to in all its policies and actions. it is a framework of universal value to help all countries to combat poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030, with 17 specifically ambitious sustainable development goals and 169 associated goals, which require global mobilization and the implementation of coherent and effective environmental, economic and social policies. i supported the text adopted today as it aims to strengthen eu action in this area and its contribution to the achievement of the objectives set. in line with this, i would like to see the commission make a greater effort, in view of the high level political forum scheduled for july 2016, to put forward concrete proposals on how to integrate the development policy mix more effectively into the implementation of the 2030 agenda, including appropriate monitoring and review mechanisms, ensuring the full involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the european union uses all its influence and soft power to make sure that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are ambitious projects that really make life better and more sustainable for citizens all over the world.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 agenda is a un "action plan" signed, with great emphasis by the international press, by the world's leading countries last september in new york; it is based on 17 sustainable development lines and 169 objectives. the plan focuses on the protection of human rights, the achievement of gender equality and the employment of all women. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which calls on the commission to present a communication on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda, containing clear information on the structure of the implementation of the agenda at eu and member state level. signed by un member governments less than a year ago, the 2030 agenda commits all countries worldwide to implementing its 17 sustainable development goals, guiding the world on the way forward over the next 15 years. the process is in fact beginning, and it will lead to a new model of development that goes beyond gdp, that is, that avoids being based solely on quantitative growth and that focuses on respecting and protecting the planet's natural capital. the resolution calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a comprehensive strategy for sustainable development covering all relevant policy areas, with a detailed roadmap to 2030, as well as to develop effective monitoring, review and accountability mechanisms for the implementation of the 2030 agenda and to report regularly to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it demonstrates parliament's willingness to plan an effective and concrete economic and political strategy, in line with the objectives set for the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the objectives set out in this report are, in my view, a renewed commitment to combating poverty by redefining development strategies for the next 15 years. i think that appropriate and targeted programming in the context of cooperation and development between the various member states is essential for the achievement of the objectives and targets which europe itself has set itself, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the new global framework for sustainable development requires concerted action by a number of international and european actors to achieve the objectives set. the three pillars of sustainable development (environmental, economic and social) will need to be mainstreamed in the eu's internal and external policies. in particular, the review of the european consensus on development will need to embrace a new paradigm that includes the 2030 agenda in the multiannual financial framework and achieves appropriate and targeted aid programming in the framework of development cooperation, while respecting the principles of aid effectiveness. by voting in favour of this resolution, i intend to support the search for a common position within the european institutions to ensure that the 17 sustainable development objectives are achieved. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the 2030 agenda and will continue to monitor the implementation of the 2030 agenda. the european parliament, the high level political forum, national parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, adopted at the un summit in new york last september 2015, is the first global agreement to define a universal agenda of action with an impact on all countries and their national policies. as i have stressed in the resolution i have supported today, i believe it is essential for the credibility and leadership of the eu to present a common position on this sensitive issue before the high level political forum meeting in july. in this respect, i am somewhat perplexed that the commission has not yet published a communication on the review of the 2030 agenda, which is of fundamental importance in order to form the basis for a common eu approach. i would also like to stress the need for a more in-depth dialogue between the european institutions on the implementation of the agenda, and call on the commission to develop effective mechanisms for monitoring, review and accountability for its implementation. the 2030 agenda and its objectives constitute an international commitment to eradicate poverty and to redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years.
in writing. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals represent a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years and ensure that results are achieved. the work of monitoring the objectives to be achieved and of planning clearly and jointly for the future is necessary. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution calling on the foreign affairs council and the european commission to take parliament's position into account in adopting the common position in view of the july 2016 meeting of the high level political forum.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because it does not deal with the issue of a radical and necessary change in the development aid policies of third countries, without for example providing for the verification between some of the right objectives proposed and their actual achievement.
in writing. ‒ one year after the eu adopted the un sustainable development agenda, i believe that the first monitoring of the actions and results of the plan is an act of due responsibility towards citizens and society as a whole. global geopolitics is going through a time of great economic and social fragility. i therefore believe that the 17 ambitious objectives set out deserve our full attention in relation to their progress, confirming the urgency and priority of eu action. i believe that overcoming the crisis by aiming at a new development model that involves not only quantitative growth but also qualitative growth of the planet - which sums up the concept of a circular economy, for example - means investing in a real cultural revolution involving participatory development, capable of encompassing economic growth, but also social progress and greater environmental protection in a coordinated and common work. this is an important bet to tackle the big threats such as hunger, poverty, social exclusion and at the same time aim to develop a new model of growth: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on the proposal submitted following statements by the council and the commission on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda. i am in favour of the report of the expert group on sustainable development goal (sdg) indicators, which is tasked with developing a proposal for the indicator framework for monitoring the post-2015 development goals and targets. the 2030 agenda review has proposed 230 indicators that represent a good starting point for the sustainable development goals and provide a robust framework for monitoring and reviewing progress. i believe that the 2030 agenda and its development goals are an international commitment to eradicate poverty by modernising development strategies for the next 15 years. the next mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework will need to be fully exploited to ensure that all agenda commitments agreed with the eu are met.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals represent a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty and to redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years. the adoption of this resolution is in this context. parliament called for the adoption of a joint interinstitutional position and for the commission to adopt a concrete implementation plan to coordinate the achievement of the objectives, targets and overall indicators and, above all, to ensure their full implementation. we also call for the financing mechanisms and budget lines to reflect the commitments under the 2030 agenda agreed by the union, in view of the upcoming mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. we therefore call on the member states and the union to renew their commitment to the target of 0.7% of gni for official development assistance and to ensure that this assistance is gradually increased.
in writing. ‒ in view of the united nations general assembly resolution 70/1, the need, also expressed at european level, to review and implement the framework indicators for monitoring the objectives of the post-2015 and 2030 agendas, and the fact that the 2030 agenda is focused on eradicating poverty and defining development strategies for the next 15 years, and that the sustainable development objectives must form the basis of all future trade agreements of the european union, i believe that the proposal of my colleagues should be encouraged at european and international level. i therefore intend to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly support the need for a unanimous european union position on sustainable development issues. the new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater coherence between the different policy areas and actors involved, which requires further coordination, dialogue and collaboration at all levels within the union. the commission and the eeas should present a comprehensive strategy on the implementation of the 2030 agenda involving all relevant policy areas inside and outside the union and this new approach should ensure the full involvement of parliament, in particular with regard to development policy and policy coherence for development, in accordance with the principles of transparency and mutual accountability. this strategy needs to be integrated into all eu institutions in order to ensure effective cooperation and to overcome the 'watertight compartments' approach. the european union should also pursue close cooperation with un bodies in order to coordinate the policies, programmes and activities of the eu, the un and other actors involved, and enhance the accessibility of disaggregated data in order to monitor progress and evaluate results.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the result of a broad compromise, the european parliament calls on the foreign affairs council to express a common eu position in the context of the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development at the united nations. it also called for the agenda to be translated into a common strategy at member state level, which would give europe a leading role in its implementation. i voted in favour of this resolution, together with the ppe group and all those who supported it.
in writing. ‒ with a view to the next high-level political forum on sustainable development in july, the resolution adopted today constitutes the european parliament's contribution to the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda to eradicate poverty and redefine and modernise development strategies for the next 15 years. i hope that in this context the european union will adopt a firm common position in order to integrate effectively all the dimensions of sustainable development and to strengthen policy coherence for development also within the un working structures. the current scenario calls not only for greater coordination, dialogue and collaboration among all eu actors, but also for an internationally shared vision of global humanitarian priorities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the new millennium development goals offer us the chance to imagine and actual more ambitious policies in development cooperation. the review of the european consensus must fully reflect the new 2030 agenda, which includes a paradigm shift and a real transformation of the european union's development policy. targeted aid programming, avoiding waste, is essential to achieving the objectives of cooperation with third countries. it will be important to take advantage of the upcoming mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework in order to ensure that the funding commitments made reflect all the commitments under the 2030 agenda agreed by the european union and its member states. i also believe it is essential that the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gdp to development cooperation by all 28 member states is finally achieved. too few now, it's our credibility at stake.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the implementation of agenda 2030 with a positive vote. the european union is a global community of states committed to building a common and sustainable development model. the 2030 agenda proposes a set of concrete policies to win the fight against hunger and poverty and to enable ever wider sections of the population to access basic services and to obtain recognition of their right to education. environmental considerations are also taken into account, as greenhouse gas emissions are to be significantly reduced and comprehensive measures to protect natural resources are to be taken. the european union must be a world leader in this. i therefore welcome all the initiatives that go in this direction and i hope that the debate on this subject will continue to be lively and proactive.
in writing. ‒ ensuring adequate information and transparency of food production processes is an indispensable tool for protecting the health and freedom of choice of european citizens. it is therefore extremely important to extend the list of foods for which a compulsory indication of origin is required. the resolution refers specifically to: milk; meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultry; unprocessed food; products based on a single ingredient; and all ingredients representing more than 50% of a food. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the proposal, because i believe that the right of citizens to health and information must be recognised and protected.
in writing. ‒ according to a eurobarometer survey, 84% of europeans think that the indication of the origin of milk is necessary and 88% think it is essential for all types of meat. the motion for a resolution on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods, which i voted for in parliament, tackles this problem by suggesting some solutions. the text adopted calls in particular on the commission to make labelling compulsory for meat products, all types of milk and dairy products, with the possibility of extending these measures to other single-ingredient or predominantly ingredient foods. new rules with reduced operational costs could increase product traceability and transparency throughout the food chain, thus increasing consumer protection against fraud and consumer confidence,
in writing. ‒ i believe that labelling of origin is a fundamental contribution to the whole agri-food chain, to the protection of italian and european quality production, to the defence of consumers and the products of our territories. in this period of crisis in the agricultural sector, i think that the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance on the label can be an added value to be used in our favour against the growing counterfeiting of foodstuffs. for these reasons, i supported the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important that the commission submit a legislative proposal for the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods in order to restore consumer confidence after the various frauds that have affected the food sector, such as the equine meat scandal.
in writing. ‒ 84% of consumers believe that the origin of milk, sold as such or used as an ingredient in dairy products, should be indicated. as regards processed meat, the commission report of 17 december 2013 shows that 90% of consumers want to know the origin of the meat in processed foods. the commission nevertheless concludes that maintaining labelling on a voluntary basis may be the most desirable solution for the above products. according to the study accompanying the report on milk and non-bovine meat, the costs of mandatory origin labelling for milk and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products increase in line with the complexity of the production process. however, the commission does not distinguish between slightly processed and highly processed products. we therefore ask the commission to define 'slightly processed' food, particularly as regards dairy and meat products, as the cost of origin labelling should be significantly reduced if its scope is limited to milk for direct consumption, lightly processed dairy products such as cheese and cream, and some lightly processed meat products such as sausages and bacon.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the commission to finally implement its obligations to implement the provisions of article 26 of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on mandatory indication of origin (food information to consumers is horizontal legislation on food labelling). in particular, considering that optional labelling schemes would only lead to confusion and opacity (see recital l and § 20), it calls for mandatory indication of origin on almost everything (§ 24-31). we must be careful that this very good text is not distorted by the epp amendments and the deletion of the parts on which the non-origin groups have asked for a separate vote. in this connection, i would draw attention to amendment no 8: finally they confess the real reason for their opposition. we should point out, as we explained to the president of federalimentare in recent days, that 'origin' cannot be reduced to a mere matter of costs for firms, but is, on the contrary, a lever for the 'value' of the primary sector and then of the processing sector. this is a tool that can help to counter the crisis in the agricultural sector caused by the free trade policies implemented by the eu, as france, for example, has understood.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission to apply the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance to products intended for direct consumption. the eu regulation on consumer information adopted in 2011 made the labelling of origin or provenance for certain foods subject to an impact assessment. the study shows that the costs of ensuring transparency in the food chain for those products may be too high, but that assessment is incomplete and does not sufficiently take into account the fact that the costs related to traceability are not the same for all products. for these reasons i support the call on the commission to implement the obligation to label origin for those products whose traceability costs are negligible and to further its study to assess the possibility of extending the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance to other single-ingredient or predominantly ingredient food products by drawing up legislative proposals in these areas.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the obligation to indicate the origin of certain foods, in particular milk and specific types of meat. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety i am very sensitive to this subject and in this vote i have strongly stressed the importance of mandatory origin labelling. i believe that the introduction of this system is in the interests of european consumers and i believe that it is the european parliament's specific task to protect them as best as possible. i also believe that as an italian mep it is my specific duty to act in the interests of my country in particular, which is why i voted in favour of protecting the best possible protection for the 'made in italy'. i believe that since our products are desired and envied throughout the world, we must proudly guarantee their origin, a symbol of a country that is unsurpassed in food quality.
in writing. ‒ today's is a victory for our food products of excellence and for our made in italy. with the resolution on mandatory country of origin labelling, the european parliament has expressed its support for the need to ensure the transparency and traceability of certain foods, to the benefit of european consumers and our businesses. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. i hope that the commission will soon give effect to our request to enable consumers to make informed decisions about what they put on their tables.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it deals with issues which are at the heart of the interests of european citizens. ensuring that milk, whether used alone or as an ingredient in dairy products, is indicated as to its origin is an indispensable measure to protect both the quality of dairy products and employment in this sector, which is crucial for many member states. i therefore support the parliament's initiative to call for the establishment of a working group to assess the commission's report on milk and other meats, in order to introduce mandatory origin labelling at a sustainable cost to businesses and consumers. i also believe that the ttip negotiations currently under way for free trade with the united states should not jeopardize any of the european provisions on the indication of the country of origin on the labelling of dairy products, meat and all meat products. finally, i believe that the european union has a responsibility to protect european consumers by promoting the highest possible degree of transparency and preventing food fraud. this resolution is in the direction of new legislative proposals on origin labelling by the commission and tougher penalties for those who commit fraud.
in writing. parliament again urged the commission to come forward with legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory, in order to ensure greater transparency along the food chain and better inform european consumers, while taking into account its impact assessments and avoiding excessive administrative costs and burdens. this resolution aims to give new impetus to eu action in this area and reminds the commission to take into account the views of european citizens expressed in the 2013 eurobarometer survey, where 84% of citizens consider the origin of milk to be required and 88% of citizens consider the origin of meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultry to be required. the introduction of mandatory origin labelling for all food products is in the interest of european consumers. in addition, the commission needs to ensure that ongoing trade negotiations, such as those on ttip, do not weaken any of the existing eu provisions on country of origin labelling and do not prejudice the right to propose further provisions on this matter for other food products in the future.
in writing. beyond the foodstuffs covered by the resolution voted by the european parliament today, there is no doubt that the issue of compulsory indication of origin for foodstuffs is of fundamental importance for the protection, above all of the health, of consumers. we therefore reiterate our support for political and legislative initiatives which make the indication of origin for food compulsory, supporting 'made in'. on the other hand, labelling, in addition to protecting health, can be used as a marketing tool to add value to labelled products. we are also in favour of a gradual approach, moving from voluntary labelling to mandatory labelling, taking into account the results of voluntary labelling.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report because i agree with the obligation to indicate the origin of many products.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, we defend consumers and promote our products: we are asking the commission to extend the obligation to indicate the place of origin to milk and dairy products, but also to certain meats. we are also asking the same for a number of other products, including those made from a single ingredient. we are convinced that this compulsory indication is also an indispensable measure to combat food fraud and to protect employment in a sector such as dairy, which is going through a serious crisis. today, half the products that enter the carton do not show the place of origin on the label, and this is a gap that must be filled by measures such as those we have called for today.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this resolution, parliament has spoken out in favour of the demands expressed by a very large majority of european citizens on the labelling of meat and milk. in particular, we have called for the compulsory indication of the origin of milk sold as such or used as an ingredient in dairy products. we also urged the commission and the member states to consider extending the mandatory indication of the country of origin to other single-ingredient or predominantly ingredient foods. as regards the labelling of meat, we asked the commission to extend the mandatory indication of origin to meat other than that currently regulated (beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultrymeat), also in order to allow european consumers to make an informed choice. we are also calling for the mandatory labelling of the origin of meat in processed products. while labelling is of great interest to european citizens, it does not in itself provide a guarantee against food fraud. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied.
in writing. following the vote in envi last march, the plenary today voted in a definitive way on the mandatory indication of the origin and provenance of certain foods, including milk, meat, processed products (such as ragù, lasagna, tortellini) or with a predominant ingredient (such as pasta). the european commission, taking note of the expressed approach, will now have to submit ad hoc legislative proposals. this is a fundamental step which responds to the need for transparency for consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected, and that the consumer is protected in all the member states. this is also a great signal for european producers of quality products and for the protection of made in italy and its economic potential. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i am very pleased with today's vote because we have given a strong signal to give european consumers complete and clear information about the origin of many food products.
in writing. ‒ given the increasing complexity and integration of production and supply chains, the risks of food fraud and the difficulties for consumers to make informed choices when buying dairy products and products containing meat, we welcome the resolution. the european parliament, in its report of december 2013, had also already urged the european commission to proceed with a legislative proposal to make the indication of the country of origin of meat in processed products mandatory. we therefore strongly regret the lack of response to this. as shown by a eurobarometer survey in 2013, european citizens, increasingly aware of the impact of their consumption on animal welfare and environmental conditions, have expressed their support for regulatory innovation that makes their choices more informed and production chains more transparent and aware. the agreement would also help to combat food fraud, which not only threatens consumers but also harms local producers by eroding their market shares and damaging their image. moreover, given the time of severe consumer distrust of large food companies and the agencies responsible for their control, the measure would increase their credit.
in writing. ‒ taking into account parliament's position on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foods, such as milk, and taking note of the great attention paid to this by public opinion, i agree with the position taken by the proposal under consideration. i would also stress the need for information campaigns to promote these products. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ an indication of the country of origin for the labelling of all processed meat and milk products should be mandatory to make the food supply chain more transparent and help maintain consumer confidence in food products. according to eurobarometer data, 84% of european citizens believe it is necessary to indicate the origin of milk; 88% consider such labelling necessary for meat (excluding beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultry, which are already covered) and over 90% consider labelling important for processed foods. the compulsory indication of the country of origin is a powerful incentive for food businesses to promote products with high added value in terms of quality and working methods that respect animals and the environment. i would like to stress in particular that this motion for a resolution is in line with italian interests. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the compulsory indication of the origin and provenance of products and of the ingredients prevalent in food. the commission will be called upon to submit ad hoc legislative proposals to enable consumers to recognise the origin and provenance of certain foods. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to protect the consumer and the food heritage together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the obligation to indicate the country of origin for all milk, milk products and meat products. i believe that mandatory origin labelling would give consumers the opportunity to be better informed and therefore to make more informed purchases. moreover, increased transparency along the entire food supply chain would bring significant economic benefits to raw material producers. i am referring, for example, to rabbit meat. in italy, rabbit farming is the fourth most important livestock sector in terms of economic importance, after cattle, pigs and chickens. the entire funnel chain is currently experiencing a profitability crisis, partly due to european regulatory uncertainty and the high volatility of prices linked to often unfair competition from the product imported from other countries. i hope that the european commission will fill this regulatory gap and present a legislative proposal to extend the mandatory indication of the country of origin to this type of meat and thus clearly indicate on the label the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal. only in this way can we promote the true made in italy and promote the quality and safety of our products.
in writing. ‒ the subject of this resolution is the compulsory indication of origin for foods not covered by the legislation in force, namely milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, types of meat other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultrymeat, unprocessed foods, products based on a single ingredient and ingredients representing more than 50% of a food. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to extend the origin labelling to foods where consumer interests are balanced with costs, for example milk or low-processed food products. i am in favour of legislative proposals to make the indication of origin compulsory for food, supporting 'made in'. i believe that labelling can be used as a marketing tool which adds value to the product. we are sponsoring a phased approach which starts from voluntary labelling regulation and sees mandatory labelling as the final goal to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the resolution we are about to vote on is another step in the right direction to meet the information and security needs of european consumers. i would like to stress in particular that an important amendment has been inserted in the text, which i and other colleagues have supported, and in which we ask the european commission to go beyond the system currently in force by extending mandatory labelling to a whole range of products for which it is not required today, such as meat in processed foods and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products. a legislative initiative by the european commission in this direction would be essential to ensure greater transparency along the food chain, to better inform european consumers given the importance of the indication of origin for them in order to make an informed and informed purchase choice and to avoid fragmentation of the internal market, which could ultimately have negative effects on consumers themselves. this is even more necessary now in the light of the recent decision of the european executive to authorize a mandatory labelling system on a trial basis in france.
in writing. if we buy ready-made pancakes or lasagna, or sausages, hamburgers or dairy products such as yoghurt and cheese on the label today, we have no information about the origin of the raw materials that make them up. i have been fighting with my colleagues in the m5s for some time to give consumers all the elements they need to make informed choices, so that they can choose the foods they feel are best suited to their diet and that of their children. this resolution, for which i voted in favour, calls for the labelling of processed products and milk products with an indication of origin to be made compulsory and not just voluntary. the production costs for the labelling companies would increase irrelevantly. making the indication of origin compulsory for food is a tool in defence of 'made in' and quality food. the labelling represents an added value for the product that is recognised by consumers. the citizens want to know where their food comes from and how it is produced, and with this resolution we wanted to send a message that the european commission cannot ignore.
in writing. ‒ parental leave is the right of both parents to take time off from work for a certain period of time, thus allowing them to balance family and work commitments. ensuring a certain flexibility in employment contracts is particularly important, not only as a form of support for women workers, but above all in view of the 75% employment targets of the horizon 2020 programme. the aim was to develop social policies and measures to facilitate reintegration into working life and to ensure full implementation of the directive in all member states. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy includes among its objectives the achievement of a 75% employment rate for women. one theme is closely linked to that of work-life balance, which sees the issue of leave legislation as a central element in its implementation. national legislation on leave currently provides for three types of family leave: maternity, paternity and parenting; at european level, there are two directives, one on maternity leave and one, updated in 2010, on parental leave. the arena report, which i supported with my vote, calls strongly for a strengthening of the legislation on this subject, pushing for a strong guarantee for access to leave without any discrimination due to the sector of employment and the contractual characteristics of the work. parental leave should be equally granted to both parents and the push to enable fathers to take advantage of this opportunity should be strengthened. in this respect, new european legislation on paternity leave should be adopted to ensure a minimum level of leave of two weeks.
in writing. ‒ the arena report on the application of directive 2010/18/eu implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave is a partisan text which, while starting from shared considerations on parental leave, then pushes for the legitimization of homosexual adoptions throughout the european union, despite the fact that several member states do not yet have legislation on the subject or it is already prohibited by law. this is one of the repeated attempts to impose a standard of thinking on european citizens, including in the ethics of family relations. for these reasons i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in europe, there is still no guarantee of a level playing field, appropriate and flexible conditions for working fathers and mothers who need to reconcile their private and professional lives. european legislation, which no longer corresponds to the current economic and social environment and the eu's 2020 employment targets, needs to be revised and modernised. to respond to demographic, economic and gender equality challenges, it is therefore necessary to design family policies that promote a smooth and gradual return to work and that enhance the flexibility, accessibility, duration, compensation and transferability of parental leave. for these reasons i wholeheartedly support the report by my colleague, who is convinced that greater guarantees can support employment and give greater dignity to parenting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the family-related rights recognised by public policies, including parental leave, are identical in terms of individual rights and that both parents can benefit from them equally, so as to encourage them to achieve a better work-life balance in the best interests of their children, and that it would also be important to achieve the 75% employment rate for women and men set by the europe 2020 strategy and to promote gender equality.
in writing. ‒ parental leave is an essential tool which should enable both parents to take care of their children adequately, while ensuring a proper work-life balance. however, this measure, as it stands, presents important problems: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the directive which frames this measure is characterized by wide disparities in the measures of transposition, which identify more or less favourable schemes, depending on the type of sector of employment, which are extremely heterogeneous. for all these reasons, i call on the commission to come forward with new measures to promote the use of parental leave by fathers and to ensure that the directive is implemented uniformly in all sectors of employment. i also believe that, with a view to reducing gender discrimination, innovative instruments such as teleworking should be promoted, which can facilitate a smooth and gradual return to employment and a better work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ although the report promotes some legitimate reflections on the importance of reconciliation and on strengthening the protection of parents of disabled children, openly declaring the failure of european intervention in this area, the text is not acceptable. the rapporteur is not just asking the commission to rewrite the european legislation governing the matter, thus promoting yet another impulse towards 'communitisation', but through continuous and explicit requests for parental leave adapted to the 'needs of same-sex parents' she is de facto aiming at legitimising homosexual adoptions, taking it for granted even for those european countries which have not yet regulated this matter or which even constitutionally prohibit it (romania, for example). traditionally, leave tends to be viewed and analysed from a perspective which considers women as the main carers, with less attention paid to the situation of fathers. however, it is important to reflect on leave related to caring responsibilities also from the point of view of fathers, especially in view of the much-needed increase in the employment rate required by the europe 2020 strategy. our delegation, which has always fought against any manoeuvre aimed at imposing more europe on the citizens, must all the more oppose any attempt to interfere with the eu in these areas. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report which sets out the state of play of the implementation of the framework agreement on parental leave and calls on the commission to make further proposals to ensure that the directive is implemented correctly and uniformly in all eu member states. in the present situation, there is no failure to implement parental leave in the member states, but rather a certain disparity in the arrangements, particularly as regards the maximum duration, the pay schemes during leave and the scope of application. what has also emerged is the low use of parental leave by fathers, which is mainly explained by low remuneration and, in most member states, transferability. i join the call on the commission to strengthen european legislation on the arrangements for the use of parental leave to ensure uniform implementation of the directive across the eu and i fully support the call on the member states to ensure that family-related rights can be enjoyed equally by both parents, so as to encourage them to achieve a better work-life balance in the best interests of their children.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this report was essentially to set a political direction which is intended to untangle a patchwork of rules which is too complex in terms of regulation, namely parental leave. it was interesting to note from the documentation submitted to me that the existing legislation on this subject is now outdated and has not been updated to better reflect the economic and social context of the present european union. i believe that action should be taken as soon as possible to harmonise the different ways in which parental leave is implemented in the various member states, with due regard for gender equality and equity. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is moving in that direction.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy's 75% employment rate target and the elimination of gender discrimination in the workplace are two priorities for the european political agenda as well as for the lives of eu citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that promoting equal participation between the sexes in the labour market and the right to take parental leave is not only a right to be guaranteed to citizens, but also a duty on the part of the eu institutions, in the face of a fall in birth rates in many member states and disadvantaged conditions for women who want to exercise their right to work and maternity at the same time. i therefore support the application of directive 2010/18/eu on parental leave by member states, in full respect of the existing legislation on collective bargaining between the social partners, with the hope that the differences between the national provisions for the transposition of the directive and between the definitions of the various types of leave themselves may gradually be smoothed over to ensure equal family-related rights for parents throughout the eu, first and foremost the right to reconcile work and family life.
in writing. the right to parental leave should be guaranteed to all without discrimination, regardless of gender, regardless of the sector of employment, whether public or private, and regardless of the type of employment contract of fathers and mothers. the resolution reiterates the call on the member states to redress the imbalances which still exist in the application of directive 96/34/ec, in particular as regards the maximum duration, the legal structure, the pay schemes and the gender imbalances in the use of parental leave. as europe ages, there is an increasing need for social policies that support families in their parenting paths, that look at a real reconciliation of private and professional life, promoting for example teleworking and smart-working, and childcare services, with particular attention to the poorest families and those at risk of social exclusion. i voted yes.
in writing. the european legislation on family leave is now obsolete and requires the legislator to adapt it to the changed economic and social context. we therefore call on the european commission to submit as soon as possible an appropriate proposal to parliament, which is able to respond to the demographic, economic and gender equality challenges of the union. the resolution adopted by parliament today contains positions which we share and which we intend to support.
in writing. ‒ i am against the report which, despite some positive points, focuses too much on parental leave for 'same-sex parents' and calls for greater communityisation of some policies in this area.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate my colleague, ms arena, on her important work on the transposition of the directive on parental leave. it is essential to ensure that, in a social issue of such importance, the disparities between the measures transposing the directive as regards the scope of application are eliminated, as is the case for the different sectors of employment. i agree that the right to parental leave must therefore be guaranteed to everyone without discrimination, regardless of gender, regardless of the sector of employment and regardless of the type of employment contract of fathers and mothers.
in writing. ‒ in adopting this report, parliament assessed the implementation of parental leave legislation by the different member states. unfortunately, we have noted that there are still differences between the transposing measures as regards the scope of application, which results in more or less favourable schemes for workers. what we are asking for is a uniform implementation of the directive in both the public and private sectors, and that the right to parental leave be guaranteed to both parents without discrimination. in this connection, we call on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a revision of the directive which is truly ambitious and which makes it possible to improve the reconciliation between family and professional life. we also call for a european directive on paternity leave of at least two weeks. there are situations in which it is necessary to extend the period of parental leave, especially in the case of parents with children with disabilities or long-term illnesses. our request goes in that direction, together with the proposal to raise the age of the child for whom leave is possible. finally, we call for family policies to promote a smooth and gradual return to work.
in writing. i vote in favour of the commission's proposal on the framework agreement on parental leave. these rules, which no longer respect the modern economy, now need to be revised and promoted with a single purpose, as they have been drawn up with different objectives in different contexts. the report is intended to assess the application by the member states of the legislation on parental leave, taking into account maternity and paternity leave. the report also takes account of gender equality, the division of family responsibilities between men and women, and greater participation of women in the labour market. only by promoting such equality, within effective family support policies, will we be able to honour and respect the fundamental principles of the union.
in writing. ‒ time and again, statistics show that parental leave has positive effects on our economy and on our families. the report explains that the gender gap still persists in the world of work and costs europe €370 billion a year, not to mention the effect in our homes where children of delicate ages do not interact enough with their parents. we want to see more women and men working, not choosing to make one or the other work. we must protect the right of all parents to take time off to spend more time with their children without putting their jobs at risk. we need to end discrimination in every aspect of the workplace, like interviewers asking women if they have or want children but not asking men the same questions, without mentioning the gender pay gap. the provision of social security benefits is a matter for the member states, and the commission and parliament must support them by standardizing the regulations and stabilizing the situation. i therefore voted in favour of this report and i expect to continue to strengthen the values of european families and working women.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave. it is important to monitor and evaluate the different implementations of the legislation in the different member states: while recognising the competence of the member states in this area, it is essential to ensure that the same level of prerogatives and opportunities is offered throughout the union. this report also takes on added importance as it puts forward a number of proposals to improve and modernise existing legislation, including the extension of minimum leave from 4 to 6 months, raising the age of the child for which leave can be claimed, including measures such as individual rights and non-transferability of part of leave to improve fathers' participation in parental leave. finally, the commission is also asked to come forward as soon as possible with a new and ambitious proposal on maternity leave and a proposal for a directive introducing at least two weeks of compulsory paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ parental leave, introduced at european level a few years ago, is a fundamental right that sets minimum requirements to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life. a right which promotes women's participation in the world of work, encourages a more equitable sharing of parental leave by both parents and increases opportunities for the most fragile families. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the council directive which reforms the framework for parental leave and sets out a framework of rules which are more precise and more harmonized at european level. an update of the previous directive, which was necessary in a completely changed social and economic context, on a sensitive subject such as parental leave. finally, by adopting today's text, the european union is making a serious commitment to promoting policies that will really tackle inequalities, including gender inequalities, and strengthen people's rights, and to defining measures that are essential to finding the right balance between work and private life: it's one of the keys to our modern society.
in writing. ‒ although the legal framework for parental leave is complex and fragmented, the european union refers to two key pieces of legislation: the 1992 maternity leave directive and the initial 1996 parental leave directive, which was partly reformed in 2010. these instruments no longer correspond to the socioeconomic context of present-day europe and therefore need to be revised. i believe that the report under consideration, concerning the assessment of the implementation of parental leave legislation by the states, is relevant to that purpose. i would feel comfortable voting yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that parental leave is a crucial issue for our societies, it refers to the work-life balance and to important issues related to gender equality and the economic contribution of increased participation of women in the labour market. national legislation on parental leave is very complex and needs to be revised to meet the challenges of today's economic and social environment. the union has implemented legislation in accordance with the agreement reached by the social partners, but for such legislation to be effective it needs to be fully transposed by the member states without adding additional administrative burdens that undermine its implementation. the union must also urge the member states to implement family-related social policies which provide for the application of all the benefits provided for in the directive and which correct the gender imbalance in the use of parental leave. particular attention should also be paid to the remuneration arrangements during the period of leave; this is also crucial for low-income parents and single parents, so that the latter benefit from this leave on an equal basis with all other parents.
in writing. ‒ there are wide differences within the member states as regards parental leave rules. for example, public sector employees often enjoy greater protection than those in private companies, while in some member states workers with fixed-term contracts are not entitled to parental leave. for this reason, common rules on parental leave should be promoted throughout the eu. the directive introduces the revised framework agreement of the european social partners on 18 june 2009. it applies equally to all workers irrespective of the type of employment contract and is granted for a period of at least four months. this is a step in the right direction and will help millions of young european families. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report discusses the directive implementing the framework agreement on parental leave, in particular by applying this instrument for a minimum duration (four months) to all workers, irrespective of the type of contract. in the complex consideration of the many amendments tabled, i have, together with my group, voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ parental leave should be an opportunity, not a hindrance. parents should be able to take parental leave to look after their child, and this is particularly important in exceptional circumstances, such as when the child is seriously ill and needs the care and assistance of their loved ones. the need to be present in the child's life cannot and must not affect professional life. in the eu, legislation on maternity leave is urgently needed to modernise and improve parental leave by creating a balance between work and family life. this reconciliation is essential for the society in which we live and can certainly help to reverse the trend towards demographic growth on our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the framework agreement on parental leave. the report proposes gender parity in sharing family responsibilities, as 97% of women take parental leave available to both parents. the commission is also proposing to extend the minimum duration of parental leave from four to six months and to increase the minimum age of the child for whom parental leave can be taken. finally, the report proposes improving the coordination, consistency and accessibility of parental leave in the different member states. i am firmly convinced that the modernisation of parental leave in europe is necessary to ensure gender equality and increase women's participation in the workforce.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution on parental leave tabled by my colleague from the socialist and democratic group, maria arena. the introduction of parental leave is an essential democratic achievement in support of parents and children. as such, it must not only be vigorously defended but also implemented. the s&d group's vision is very ambitious in this respect: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure equal protection for mothers and fathers, to increase the duration of leave to six months, to extend benefits to other types of family care, and to ensure that parents are not discriminated against in their jobs. the resolution we have voted on, the result of many compromises, incorporates many of these proposals and certainly opens the way to further implementation of the right to take care of one's family. the s&d group has once again succeeded in making itself a promoter of the fight for gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the directive 2011/36/eu aimed to harmonise the rules on trafficking in human beings, with particular attention to the protection and assistance of victims. however, not only has germany not yet transposed the directive, but the commission has not yet carried out the checks and reports on the actual implementation of the directive that it was entrusted with. the report analyses the gender dimension, the definition of trafficking, the availability of data and statistics, and proposes a series of initiatives aimed not only at improving the definition of trafficking but above all at prevention and assistance to victims. i voted in favour of this report because condemning and eradicating this vicious practice must be a top priority for all states.
in writing. ‒ the migrant crisis facing europe has highlighted an important issue: human trafficking. this term covers a wide range of illegal activities, from sexual exploitation to forced labor, organ harvesting, begging, and forced marriage. these are human rights violations, crimes that affect the physical and psychological integrity of the victims and in 80% of cases involve women. the bearder report, which i have supported today, is concerned with tackling the problem in a global way, starting with prevention, then identification and finally assistance to victims. the text calls on the member states to ensure that victims are also provided with legal assistance in civil proceedings and in immigration and asylum procedures, while training police, judicial and medical staff to assist in the early identification and support of victims. an important step would be to guarantee victims residence permits and free access to the labour market within the member countries.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field, which i supported with my vote, is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that human trafficking is a scourge of our time and must be eradicated as quickly as possible through cooperation between the member states of the union and between them and third countries of transit. it is a question of civilization and the union must be at the forefront of this fight against barbarism.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a tragic phenomenon that gives rise to intolerable violations of fundamental human rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. directive 2011/36/eu allows, through measures such as the obligation for member states to establish mechanisms for the identification and assistance of victims or through a regulatory framework allowing for the swifter and more efficient initiation of criminal proceedings against traffickers, to combat a highly complex and brutal phenomenon affecting thousands of people, mostly women, every year. however, to make the tools available even more effective, the timeliness of recognition of victims needs to be increased, and victims need to have effective access to justice and services that are recognised by eu law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. finally, if we are to achieve more ambitious results, member states need to introduce stricter criminal sanctions and increase judicial and police cooperation through europol and eurojust, sharing sensitive information and extending existing training programmes for staff.
in writing. ‒ despite some commonalities, the report is too unbalanced on the pro-immigration front. i voted with an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that a further joint international effort is needed to prevent such inhuman and degrading situations. although the strategies adopted so far in the field of crime control, trafficking and victim assistance have been many, the results are far from reassuring. children and girls, representing 16% and 13% respectively of the total number of confirmed victims of trafficking in human beings, are certainly among the most vulnerable groups. unfortunately, statistics cannot give an accurate picture of the real situation, as there are a significant number of unidentifiable victims. human trafficking mainly affects so-called 'hidden populations'. the peculiarity of these is the low level of reporting and the low recognition rate. migrant smuggling and human trafficking, although different phenomena, often tend to overlap. a well-balanced and appropriate response could then be found by a careful analysis of the latest trends, including the influence that the current migration crisis could have on the phenomenon in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report which aims to express the european parliament's position on greater protection for victims of trafficking in human beings. the relationship between the various aspects focuses on the particular vulnerability of women, the definition of trafficking and the availability of data and statistics. it is certainly to be appreciated that particular emphasis is being placed on prevention, which is considered essential to combating trafficking. it also reiterates the call on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal to combat violence against women and tackles the crucial issue of victim identification.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that this report has been adopted because i think it is the right political position on a problem of great importance to europe, namely human trafficking. with this policy document, the union is seeking to combat effectively this serious form of organised crime, with its various abuses of fundamental human rights and the personal integrity of the victim. the report in question aims to introduce stronger forms of control so that it is first and foremost the individual member states who make sure that they do everything possible to ensure that new people do not fall victim to it. i believe that prevention is essential if we are to tackle human trafficking in a concrete way. as a member of the european parliament, it is my duty to defend the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and i believe that this report is intended to tackle these problems in a concrete way. the report also stresses the importance of gender equality and the fact that women and girls are too often the victims of violence because they are objectively more vulnerable. for these reasons, i am extremely pleased that this document has been adopted.
in writing. ‒ directive 2011/36/eu aims to better protect victims of trafficking in human beings. trafficking in human beings is considered one of the most serious crimes worldwide and constitutes a serious violation of human rights. this directive sets out rules that apply throughout the european union to tackle this horrific phenomenon and reduce the vulnerability of victims. the recruitment, transport, transfer, accommodation or reception of persons for the purpose of exploitation shall be punishable. 'exploitation' means exploitation of prostitution or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, including begging, slavery, exploitation of illicit activities or organ harvesting. the directive required the commission to carry out evaluations and audits by 6 april 2015 to examine the measures taken by the member states to transpose the directive. the commission has not carried out any evaluation or examination to date. i believe that special importance should be attached to prevention in order to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings and to assisting the victims. the report represents a fundamental step for the member states in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in and exploitation of human beings, in all its forms, but especially in the workplace and in the sexual sphere, is still a phenomenon in european societies. the victims of trafficking are already vulnerable groups such as young women, children, asylum seekers and migrants. i am voting in favour of the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims, because we are dealing with a transnational phenomenon and i believe that all member states have an urgent need to fully and properly implement the directive and to act in a coordinated manner. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european police office, which would be able to provide information on the activities of europol and its staff. i also agree with the european parliament's interpretation of the implementation of the directive, which emphasizes two aspects which i consider to be fundamental. eu anti-trafficking legislation must necessarily be gender-sensitive in order to better protect the category of women. finally, it is important to take account of the eu's internal and external action on trafficking in human beings, as non-eu countries are often the source and transit countries for trafficking within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of this measure, which aims to promote the implementation of the directive on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims. it is true that the victims of such trafficking are often criminalised and thus rendered even more vulnerable and excluded, without any protection. this report proposes that an integrated approach based on human rights be followed in the implementation of the directive, with particular emphasis on assistance and protection for victims. in order to make the standard really effective, particular attention is also paid to the gender perspective. indeed, according to eurostat data for the three-year period 2010-2012, 69% of registered victims of human trafficking were victims of sexual exploitation and 80% of victims of such trafficking are women and girls. my vote is therefore intended to give my full support to the report, for an increase in measures to support and defend victims, and for their recovery and reintegration into society. the european union cannot be coy in the face of such phenomena, but it has a duty to develop effective policies which put the protection of human rights and dignity at the centre.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings, for a variety of purposes and in its many forms, is one of the most serious forms of human rights violation. women and children continue to be the privileged victims. various factors, in particular poverty and social exclusion, have led to situations of vulnerability, while the massive flows of migrants have highlighted the transnational nature of the phenomenon and the lack of appropriate instruments to combat it. in the legal framework to be implemented for the prevention and suppression of trafficking, tools for the assistance, support and protection of victims, cooperation between authorities and the sharing of information to investigate and uncover financial flows resulting from the activities of organised crime networks play a significant role.
in writing. ‒ the massive flows of migrants have led to a massive increase in human trafficking, which is one of the most deadly aberrant practices in recent years, as well as a clear violation of fundamental human rights. it is the duty of every state to prevent and combat it. i voted in favour of the report because it brings to the attention of the eu member states recommendations and useful tools to combat this international crime. the directive lays down an obligation for member states to establish mechanisms for the timely detection, identification and assistance of victims. in this respect, public awareness initiatives are essential, both in the countries of destination and in those of origin. in the latter, awareness raising can help prevent trafficking, but in destination countries it can help identify where victims and criminals are going.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, despite some aspects that are shared, it focuses too much on pro-uncontrolled immigration policies.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that i will vote in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu. the european union is by its very nature, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, a guarantor of the protection of the rights and dignity of the person. i therefore believe that it is essential to promote the work of implementing the existing directive in order to continue the european effort to combat this tragic phenomenon of violation of fundamental human rights, which is human trafficking. i therefore share the urgency of a more targeted legal framework, aimed at preventing crime, including through the criminalisation of those who purchase services (sexual, health or labour) resulting from trafficking, and i call for the punishment of traffickers to be tightened, calling for more measures to identify, assist and protect victims.
in writing. ‒ in adopting this resolution, parliament reaffirmed that trafficking in human beings constitutes a very serious violation of fundamental rights and a violation of the human dignity and physical and psychological integrity of the victims. but it's not just that. human trafficking is also a serious form of crime, often organized, fueled by high demand and profits estimated at about $150 billion a year. the phenomenon is so complex and transnational that it can only be tackled effectively by coordinating the actions of member states, eu institutions and agencies. it is also through effective measures to prevent and suppress trafficking and to protect the victims. about 80% of trafficking victims are women and girls, and in most cases they are victims of sexual exploitation. but there are equally aberrant figures estimating up to 16% of the number of child victims of trafficking, most of whom are from minority groups, are of roma origin or are refugees or asylum seekers. we pay particular attention to asylum seekers, refugees and migrants who are victims of trafficking. we are calling for humanitarian visas for women and children and for effective measures of economic and social integration once they reach europe.
in writing. following various discussions and amendments, the draft law on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings was finally approved. human trafficking is a serious violation of fundamental human rights and we cannot but act to combat it. the report provides an opportunity to analyse the tools used in the implementation of this directive and to identify their limitations in order to improve their effectiveness. today, 80% of the victims of human trafficking are women, and that is why we want to focus on the protection of women and children in particular. unfortunately, the commission has not yet reported on the measures applied by the member states to comply with this directive. in view of the above and with the hope that new instruments will be put into effect, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ preventing trafficking in human beings is one of the key issues to be addressed, also in the light of the migration crisis. as the report mentions, 70% of the victims and 70% of the perpetrators are european citizens. our solution must address the problem of european citizens and not just the problem of international trafficking or the exploitation of migrants. similarly, anyone can be a victim of trafficking, but we know that this problem disproportionately affects women and girls, so we need to produce solutions that are specifically geared towards women. we need to provide specific support services for women and girls who are victims. but to try to solve the problem, you have to fight against demand. this is the only way to stop trafficking, because there will always be victims who fall into the criminal circle. the demand for prostitution, the demand for forced labour and the demand for illegal organs must be eliminated. i want to see an end to all these problems and my vote in favour today is a contribution to that cause.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking, whether for sexual exploitation, forced labour, forced marriages, domestic servitude, forced organ harvesting, illegal adoption is an unacceptable phenomenon that still plagues our society. the eu's aim in adopting this directive is to prevent and combat effectively all forms of exploitation, by putting the victims, the people, at the centre, paying due attention to gender and age differences, as well as to different religious beliefs. however, as a recent caritas report shows, human trafficking remains the third most profitable business for organized crime, after drug and arms trafficking. a business worth $32 billion a year. a business where the most affected victims are women and girls (80%), whose vulnerability can be attributed to barriers in access to education, gender violence, unequal access to employment opportunities. as highlighted in the latest migrantes report, the anonymity in which victims often find themselves and the lack of coordination between states are important obstacles. i hope, therefore, that the directive will bring attention to the individual and to the coordination between states, international organisations and ngos, both of which are necessary to defeat trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ whereas trafficking in human beings constitutes a serious violation of the fundamental rights of the european union, an affront to human dignity and a threat to the physical and psychological safety of the individuals involved; we are in favour of the bearder report. we therefore stress the importance of the gender dimension in all measures to prevent and prosecute this phenomenon. in this context, we reiterate the need for policies to ensure that those at risk have safe and privileged humanitarian channels and that, once they reach the country of destination, the most vulnerable groups are provided with integration tools, such as language courses and residence permits, which prevent them from becoming victims of criminal groups. considering that the lack of coordination between member states in this area favours organised crime, we regret the failure of one member state to transpose directive 2011/36/eu and the failure of the european commission to respect the timetable, which should have submitted a report by april 2015 on the measures taken by individual countries to comply with that directive.
in writing. - i would vote in favour of the proposal by my colleague. human trafficking is, without a doubt, a violation of fundamental rights and human dignity and, since the legal framework of the union recognises trafficking as a gender phenomenon, i believe that the gender dimension must be a valid approach to be adopted and followed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i would therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a violation of human rights, as enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. although the target group is composite, statistics tell us that the majority of those affected are women. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need for the eu to step up its efforts against this inhuman practice, which amounts to a wide range of illegal activities. the implementation of the directive 2011/36/eu establishing a common legal framework for the prosecution of traffickers is a key element in the implementation of the directive. this rule also contains an obligation for member states to establish mechanisms for the timely detection, identification and assistance of victims; to this end, the union should continue to develop methodologies and data collection methods for producing comparable statistics. prevention should also be addressed through initiatives to address gender inequalities and empower women and girls. it is also necessary to provide assistance and support to victims of trafficking, regardless of whether they wish to give evidence or not, taking of course into account the gender dimension.
in writing. ‒ the report is an opportunity to assess the measures taken to implement the directive on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims and to identify any gaps and further steps needed to improve its effectiveness. in recent years, considerable progress has been made in the fight against criminal organisations involved in international trafficking in human beings, but all too often the victims are not given the full support to which they are entitled. eu member states should do more to protect victims of trafficking in human beings and adopt specific prevention, assistance and support measures for women and children. it is important that eu member states provide adequate training to their police forces, judiciary, medical staff and social workers so that they can offer their professionalism and the necessary support to victims. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as well as a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that undermines the rule of law. the statistics clearly show that the majority of victims (80%) are women and girls. their vulnerability can be attributed to several factors: obstacles to access to education, gender pay gap, unequal access to decent work opportunities, gender-based violence, unemployment, migration and gender-insensitive development strategies. in any support or financing action to third countries or developing countries, the european union should take into account the gender dimension and make it a priority.
in writing. ‒ directive 2011/36/eu aims to better protect victims of trafficking in human beings and reduce their vulnerability, with clear evidence for the gender dimension. the initiative report put to the vote today looks at a number of issues, including the gender dimension, the definition of traffic, the availability of data and statistics. particular emphasis is placed on prevention, which is considered essential to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings and to defend in particular the women involved. in order to take action on training and empowerment, parliament's request to submit a legislative proposal to combat violence against women was reiterated. it also addresses the issue of victim identification, whereby member states are obliged to ensure that persons, units and services responsible for investigating and prosecuting trafficking offences are adequately trained. however, the report noted that this aspect was not implemented by the states themselves. finally, the theme of victim assistance is highlighted, with attention to the gender dimension. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a problem affecting all eu countries and which requires the utmost attention and care. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution to consider the gender perspective in the fight against this crime. the main victims of human trafficking are women and children, who make up 80% of the human beings exploited. of these, about 95% are involved in the black market of prostitution. the resolution calls for greater effectiveness in the fight against human trafficking and calls, in addition to this commitment, for the development of policies to support women and children who are victims of abuse, with a view to defending individual rights and reintegration into society. i fully recognize the position of my group: we have succeeded in making human trafficking a criminal offence rather than the victims of human trafficking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the very worrying act of the elected government, in this chaotic situation, calling for the withdrawal of the european union's ambassador, the representative of the european union, adds grounds for concern and uncertainty to a picture that has been described very well in the previous speech. i believe that we are facing a very serious situation which is appropriate, necessary and urgent for discussion in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, growth today, unlike in the past, is based on two key elements, energy and electronic communications, if we are to aim at sustainability and a global dimension. that is why, commissioner, we very much appreciate the digital single market, the implementing measures that are beginning to arrive and all the related measures, because they represent precisely the new architecture, the new rules, the new rights of this world that is now developing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. digital rights, production rights, consumption rights, rights and values; i mean, they'll be able to move around without any restrictions or obstacles. and even small and mediumsized enterprises, commercial and manufacturing companies, which today are very afraid of these changes, must be helped to manage this transition, to seize the opportunities and to manage the risks. we shall pay close attention to regulation in parliament, as was said in the speeches. it will depend a great deal on regulation to facilitate this process in a positive way, reducing the risks: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. i repeat, economic and productive ones, but also privacy, security in all respects and new rights, personal and collective. we talk a lot about services, but we cannot forget - i am on the industry committee - that digital is also investing massively in the whole productive world, and the new phenomenon is that manufacturing and services are mixing, they are mixing in the ownership of companies, but they are also mixing in the production processes, in the new business models and in the new industrial relations - i think about the whole theme of "industry 4.0" and so on. infrastructure will be important. without infrastructure we will not be able to open up broadband development at all, and i am thinking of the measure we are considering for the redistribution of frequencies, so that the privileged frequencies go to the development of services and telecommunications. but it's not all infrastructure and technology, there's also the human factor, and there's also training. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i have just mentioned the related measures because i think that the commission's action is convergent with respect to many interventions. there are the acts of the digital single market, there is the communication on industry 4.0, there are all the interventions on the other processes that accompany the production transformations, with the support of enabling technologies. so not everything is in these acts, but i have purposely called what needs to be developed in a complementary sense, because i see an integrated market in trade, in industry, in digital and also in the use of new energies, because sustainability is a key factor in all of this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, let me express my deep appreciation for the work of the commission, which is slowly putting the ambitious objectives of the digital single market strategy into practice. but now, mr vice-president, we must run to turn good principles and good intentions into concrete opportunities, and this responsibility also belongs to us in parliament. the measures presented so far and the many that are coming can offer new opportunities for citizens and consumers. ambitious e-government plans will enable the development of a more effective and efficient public administration, at a lower cost, and providing citizens with better quality services. european consumers will benefit from clearer and more uniform contractual rules, the full development of e-commerce, the portability of online content, the removal of geoblocks and other barriers that are outdated today. finally, the enterprise system can only remain a key player in global competition by taking full advantage of new digital technologies. i am not afraid to emphasise that at a time when the european union is facing its greatest crisis, when citizens are perceiving institutions as distant from their real needs, digital technology can be a key element on which to build a new sense of belonging and with which to project our continent into the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, efficiency, accessibility and security are the preconditions for the creation of digital services which are really capable of crossing national borders and of guaranteeing open services in three main areas: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the following: i would like to draw attention first of all to the fact that the new package of measures makes it possible to raise the level of consumer protection both in the security of transactions and in the usability of goods purchased, without geoblocking. if it is true that the european union is the right level for the digital age, as commissioner ansip has said, it is also essential that this level of intervention should make it possible to unify national legislation, to reorganize what is regulated at community level, but above all to create positive effects on the daily lives of european citizens. the right balance must therefore be struck between the objective of supporting the strategy and consumer protection; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, president juncker is travelling as we speak to the g7 summit in japan and has asked me to address you on his behalf, ahead of a summit that will address a number of urgent priorities. the economic backdrop is one of gradual recovery for our economy, despite a difficult global environment. eu annual growth reached 2% in 2015. our first-quarter growth this year was higher than that of the united states. unemployment is certainly still much too high in some member states but, across the board, it has fallen to its lowest in five years. today, there are five million more jobs than in 2013. confidence is gradually returning – we see it on investment, on consumer spending, on lending. but we must remain alert. our main trading partners’ slower performance is a cause for concern. last year, growth outside the eu fell to its lowest since 2009 as emerging markets performed less well. against this backdrop of uncertainty, growth will depend on the opportunities we create for ourselves. we need investment, structural reforms and responsible public finances. we need to stay the course. this parliament has played a vital role in this strategy. you made it possible to launch the investment plan for europe at record speed. in less than one year, it has triggered eur 100 billion in new investments, and delivered finance on better terms to more than 140 000 smes. it is generating structural change. until now, european investment has often been dominated by a limited number of large, expensive projects. today, we are starting to see more local projects, which are smaller and more diverse. public money is mobilising private finance, and supporting structural reforms. we see more interaction between the european investment bank and local institutions. in short, we are beginning to see the kind of investment that the market has often failed to deliver. our fund is helping to find new treatments for alzheimer’s disease; transforming old industrial sites into new offices; bringing energy efficiency into our homes and cutting our bills; and lending a hand to start-ups who were turned away by other lenders. investment is high on the agenda of the g7. and we have a good story to tell. we will also deliver better news on greece. last year, we fought hard to keep greece in the euro area. today, the economic data is better than expected. greece should return to growth in the second half of 2016. unemployment fell in 2015, and the government reached a primary surplus of 0.7% of gdp. the stability support programme agreed last summer has laid the ground for long-term stable development. above all, we have managed to secure greece’s place in the euro area. this week’s agreement on the completion of the first review of the programme only confirms that. discussions on reducing the greek debt burden have now started. this recognises the collective effort made by the people of greece. today, the greek economy can turn the corner, and we are confident that international investors will follow. within the g7, the european union has always fought for a global economy that is governed by rules, increasingly transparent, and as fair as possible. in other words, we strive to export our best practices to the global stage. at this week’s summit, we will continue these efforts. together with our g7 partners, we need to demonstrate that global trade can work for everyone – not just for every country, but for every part of our society. we know that, in the short term, globalisation produces winners and losers. this has helped to fuel populist forces around the world. and so our challenge is not only to shape the rules of the game and to ensure that they are respected, but also to argue that our long-term prosperity lies in openness and exchange. over the last year, the european union has taken the lead on tax transparency. we now have a ground-breaking agreement on tax rulings, and earlier this year we adopted a new proposal on country-by-country reporting. our message is clear: everyone must pay their fair share. we must now work with our g7 partners to ensure that this is a truly global effort. if our own member states have agreed to put in place central registers of beneficial ownership, then our partners must do the same. for those that try to evade their duty to society, there must be no place to hide. we must be equally firm on those countries that do not play by the rules. free trade must be fair trade. i can assure this house today that the european commission stands by a robust trade defence system. if somebody distorts the market, we will take action. this commission has launched a record number of trade defence measures to respond to the dumping on europe’s steel industry. at the g7, we will argue that offending countries need to produce clear and measurable plans to cut over-capacity. international monitoring must ensure that everyone complies. let me now turn to the global refugee crisis, which is rightly high on the g7 agenda. this commission has argued from the start that only global solutions will work. here, once again, this parliament has helped to deliver a european strategy that is comprehensive: saving lives at sea, providing humanitarian assistance, strengthening our borders, supporting the countries most under pressure, relocating and resettling people in need of international protection, returning irregular migrants to their home countries, and creating safe and legal routes for asylum-seekers from outside the european union. in 2015 and 2016, the eu will have devoted more than eur 10 billion to managing the crisis. this strategy has given us the breathing space to look to the future. together with our g7 partners, we must now develop a truly global response, backed by proper resources, and capable of addressing the root causes of migration. an international resettlement programme is urgent and necessary. only by giving asylum-seekers a legal route to safety will we convince them not to risk their lives. this is the best way to break the business model of the smugglers. and the best way to restore dignity to those who genuinely need our protection. let me conclude with climate and energy. this week’s summit of the g7 is the first since the paris agreement. the real work starts now: modernising our economy and changing the way we produce and consume. this in turn requires new incentives across the entire spectrum of policy. the best of our businesses have read the signal: leading european companies are changing their business models, and creating new jobs that require new skills, innovative processes and investments. the european union must have the ambition to be a world leader in renewables: the sector now employs over one million people and generates eur 130 billion in turnover each year. european companies today hold 40% of all patents for renewable technologies. but major obstacles remain. in 2013, across the world, subsidies for fossil fuels amounted to almost eur 500 billion. that is a lot of money being spent very badly. the g7 has promised to phase out those subsidies by 2025. next we must push the g20 to do the same. as we approach this week’s summit in japan, the need for political coordination at the global level is as compelling as ever. from a slowing global economy to a global refugee crisis, the countries of the g7 need to show leadership and join forces. as the european union, we will continue to make the case for a global economy that is governed by rules, and an open society that seeks prosperity and security in its exchange with others. in today’s uncertain world, our contribution really matters.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. a new globalization, less indifferent to those who do not directly benefit from it, is the only answer to those who harness fears and revitalize ideas that we had hoped were out of date forever: nationalism, separatism, xenophobia and walls. the agenda for the summit in japan is very ambitious and so, we hope, will be the conclusions, from foreign policy to climate change to sustainable development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this connection, in line with the resolution which this parliament voted two weeks ago, we hope that a coherent way of dealing with china, a key partner, will be found, but it must also be a partner in the definition of fair and sustainable trade. this applies in particular to the question of granting market economy status, as well as to the question of overcapacity, especially in the steel sector, and to the question of compliance with common rules for market access. finally, we are pleased to note the inclusion of the item on gender equality in the agenda. the european institutions, which have always been at the forefront of promoting women's empowerment, will be able to use the g7 to support proposals to reduce all gender gaps through concrete and coordinated measures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to concentrate on the reconstitution of the g8 and the reopening of economic and political relations with russia. i believe it is urgent to review relations with washington in the run-up to the british referendum and the us elections: we better prepare before than after, better anticipate our disruptions with and without brexit. as for moscow, i wonder if europe has an interest in a quadrupled us and nato military presence on its eastern borders, which will alienate russia more than ever. washington will either turn away from europe with trump or use it, if hillary clinton wins, as a tool for failed policies in the middle east, syria and libya. preparing means re-examining those policies, having one of your own. from those policies came isis, wars and what we call the refugee issue, when it's "our issue", "our debacle".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to stress two points which are already on the g7's broad agenda and add a comment on a point which is unfortunately missing, and which i think is guilty of being missing. the first is the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. the oecd proposal is a small proposal, not enough. i believe that it is also important to go further in bilateral relations and in multilateral fora, to have solutions that are more binding, more transparent and that introduce country-by-country reporting at international level. the second point is international trade agreements. in the absence of transparency, we cannot stand by and watch negotiations in which we do not know the content, especially when they concern social, environmental and consumer standards. the last issue, which is missing, is the activity of multinationals and respect for human rights. i think it is important to ensure the guiding principles of the united nations on business and human rights. the production chain too often ends up cancelling rights which concern people, and in some cases even children. i think that's not acceptable anymore.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i will make just a few remarks. i have to say to the honourable member giegold, who had two specific questions for me: on the first question i will have to get back to you in writing because i cannot answer you immediately; on the issue of expert groups and conflict of interests in expert groups, we have had a long debate also with the parliament and with dennis de jong, another of your colleagues, on this, and the commission’s position will be forthcoming before the end of this month on this specific issue. in general, i would like to say that indeed we face huge global economic challenges on the issues we have discussed, but i think drawing up the drawbridge and building walls is not going to get us out of this conundrum. so all those who say we should break with neoliberal policies are right... but i am not sure that is what they are talking about. i think global trade will be necessary to create innovation and growth in the european union. if you look at the challenge we face, given our demographic situation, then if we stay where we are, the best possible option is to defend what we have, which means, very simply, that we will slow down decline. so if you really want to use the opportunities that global developments are offering, you need to move towards a sustainable economy, you need to embrace the digital single market, you need to create an energy union and you need to make sure that your economy becomes circular. for all of that, you need change. you need to take the necessary steps in that direction. that is the only way we can create enough economic growth which is sustainable, which does not deplete the earth but which maintains our natural resources and which will enable us to create the social environment that is wanted by the vast majority of europeans. we need growth for that, given our demographic challenge. that is what the commission will be advocating in the g7 – to use the opportunity that global trade offers without being naive about the abuse of the elements of global trade if we do not stick to the rules and if we do not have fair play. that is the essence of what we are doing. i do agree with all of those who have said that we need to have an enhanced attention towards implementing the paris agreements. again, if you follow my reasoning that we need a sustainable economy, we need to make sure that we slow down global warming and that we actually do what we promised in paris. for that, concrete measures are necessary and they need to be discussed in the g7 framework. finally, let me emphasise – and i cannot say this enough – the migration and refugee crisis is here to stay. it is not something that will end if, at last, the war in syria comes to an end. look at the huge demographic pressures we will see from africa and elsewhere. it is in our essential interest that we create sustainable growth in our neighbourhood. and when i talk about our neighbourhood, i mean the wider neighbourhood, including the whole of africa. the g7 should be talking about that as well. this is about migration, this is about opportunity, this is about decent, rule-of-law-based government and all these things have become factors on a global scale for the decisive choice europe needs to make: whether we want to export our stability and our prosperity, or whether we want to wait until we import instability and poverty from elsewhere. that, i think, should be the position of the european union in the deliberations in the g7.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first let me apologise for my late arrival to this important debate. i have already apologised to mr telička, mr lebreton and also other colleagues here today. we really had a big conflict of interest because of the visit of his majesty the king, but we have made sure that we made notes. i have heard your comments and would like to reflect also from the side of the council on some of the issues that you have mentioned in the debate. now, as the first vice—president of the commission said, the g7 leaders will discuss various topics of global importance and, crucially, on which the g7 can provide leadership. the european union’s internal and external challenges, as we know, are closely intertwined, and therefore it is important for europe to make use – if i can put it in those words – of this important meeting. we have, more than ever, an interest in being at the g7 since our internal and external security are so intertwined. the issues of migration or terrorism speak for themselves, and we need to take a comprehensive approach to the challenges we face with our other colleagues in the g7. let me start with an issue which, as you know, is very high on our agenda: the refugee and migration crisis. it is still one of the most urgent and immediate challenges facing us. i think it is not only a true test for our union and our neighbouring states. the european union has pushed for the issue to be discussed at the level of the g7 in japan because we are seriously impacted – the rest of the world, by the way, is also impacted – but we see it as a global challenge in need of a global response, and this is why europeans are making sure these issues receive appropriate attention at a global level. i hope we can become as concrete as possible in these areas. of course the g7 is not an implementation agency, but it can give the leadership to ensure that is also a global responsibility. our leaders will update their counterparts on the measures we have taken to address the crisis. our actions and financial assistance will be more effective if properly integrated in a global effort to address migration issues and promote international peace and security – think about the debates we will have on issues like syria but, more generally, the transformation in the middle east. managing migration is therefore not a european but rather a global responsibility, requiring collective solutions in full respect of our obligations under international law. the g7 is expected to call for a global response. it is a privileged forum, not just to discuss these issues but also to forge partnerships and launch, i hope, collective initiatives for a more equitable burden-sharing. my second point is, of course, the global economy. i think we are constantly reminded that the global economy recovery is too slow, that it does not deliver enough jobs, that downside risks are accumulating, and therefore it is the right time for this group of g7 leaders to clearly signal that securing balanced and inclusive growth not only remains a top priority, but to recall that we have to get our own houses in order in our individual countries. but obviously there is also a collective responsibility. we have seen, i think, that those are the lessons learned by different partners in the g7; that taken in isolation, monetary, fiscal and structural policies do not suffice to boost economic activity in a sustainable way. additionally, and given recent movements in currency markets, it would also be timely to reaffirm existing exchange rate commitments and call on all to refrain from competitive devaluations and to resist protectionism. this is a risk that we are all faced with, and i think the g7 will have to take some leadership on this. that brings me to the third point: international trade. in 2015, g7 leaders underlined the importance of trade and investment as key drivers of growth, jobs and sustainable development. tomorrow’s summit will have an important role to play in strengthening the future of the multilateral trade agenda. in this context it is important that on 13 may the council confirmed the broad support for the commission’s proposals regarding the eu strategic objectives for the post-nairobi period. importantly, i think, public trust and support for the free trade agenda has decreased in the context of disappointing global trade in recent years. so we need to get the people back on board, and i think leaders should be clear about the benefits of maintaining economies open and free from protectionism, as well as the importance of multilateral and bilateral trade and investment agreements for growth and jobs. i think it is important that we ensure that we have a much more equal level playing field, and addressing the issue of industrial excess capacity would be part of the solution. besides that, we should honestly address the concerns of the public. if you look through the history of the world economy, you see that people’s social protection actually leads to openness of international economies and not so much the other way around. ladies and gentlemen, let me finish with two other issues that i wanted to mention: taxation, another priority that we share with the g7. now that panama papers have shown how critical it is to develop and implement international tax standards at the global level, the eu has been at the forefront in fighting tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. we have transposed the exchange of information requirements, adopted the fourth anti-money-laundering directive, which makes available information on beneficial ownership, and i am pleased to report today that the council has formally adopted – after receiving your opinion – the fourth revision of the directive on administrative cooperation as regards country-by-country reporting for multinationals. i think this is important progress. the council has also adopted conclusions on an external strategy for effective taxation, calling for the establishment of an eu blacklist for non-cooperative jurisdictions, and ecofin is working on a possible general approach on the anti-tax avoidance directive. i think it is well legitimate to expect the g7 to show some ambition – i hope a lot of ambition – in this area as well. then on the two last points: the fight against terrorism will inevitably be a key priority for the summit as well. the heinous terrorist attacks which countries nowadays face are every time a direct assault not only on our security but, as we know, on our values of freedom and equality and our way of life. we cannot and will not retreat in the face of this threat. since last year’s meeting, while the territory which daesh previously controlled has shrunk, especially in syria and iraq as the group has come under sustained military pressure, the threat it presents to the european union and its partners across the middle east and north africa particularly has grown, and we just have to open the papers to see every day what horrific attacks we see in different parts of the world, especially in the middle east. the summit here of the g7 will be an opportunity to take not only stock of the measures but to examine what additional steps the g7 could adopt. we hope and expect to endorse an action plan on countering terrorism and violent extremism which will highlight the g7’s commitment to making international cooperation against such threats as effective as possible. furthermore, leaders will discuss the broader political situation in syria, iraq and libya. they will also discuss ukraine. it is vital that the commitments taken under the minsk agreement are fully implemented and that the parties remain fully engaged in the process. these are challenging times for the g7 on several fronts, for the european union. that is why i think it is important that we enlarge our community of nations that work pragmatically, but on the basis of our common values, on the issues i just mentioned, on the basis of their commitment to the rule of law and human rights and, very important, to solidarity and promotion of rule-based international orders. these are values that also bind us together as europeans, and in particular guide your work in this house, and i look forward to a strong message of confidence by g7 leaders and to their guidance on policy actions on the several fronts. again i thank you for the discussion this afternoon.
in writing. the summit in japan in the coming days is an important meeting at which the leaders of italy, france, germany, the united kingdom, the united states, japan and canada will have to address the main issues on the international agenda, first and foremost the issue of trade relations with china and its overcapacity which is causing serious distortions in the global market, with negative repercussions especially on the european fabric of production. to date, this overproduction is mainly taking place in the steel industry, where chinese capacity is more than two and a half times the total european capacity. but the persistence of heavy state interference in china's economic policies suggests that the same excess may affect other sectors in the future. leaders will then need to discuss concrete solutions and share a common long-term strategy to restore competitiveness and a level playing field. a coordinated approach will be needed, especially in view of the deadline of next december, when beijing would like to see its market economy status recognised by wto members. but this parliament has spoken out clearly against this automaticity. we hope very much that our recommendations will not be ignored.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who owns the personal data that europeans send to the united states via google, facebook or instagram? what guarantees do citizens have that their privacy is not being systematically violated? not one. in the united states, the government is free to dispose of foreigners' data as an asset in its possession, which can be used at will by the secret services for "profiling" and filing. this data is not a commodity to be traded, it is the lives of our citizens, and the european court of justice has reiterated this by tearing up the existing agreement. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that until recently the phones of this parliament, our e-mails, the mobile phones of our presidents were spied on by the americans. the new data agreement which the commission wants to sign with the united states does not contain any really binding proposal, it is an insult to the court's ruling and to thousands of citizens who trust the european institutions to protect their privacy, but the commission certainly does not want problems for ttip, which will exponentially increase transatlantic data traffic. i now ask my colleagues whether they intend to sign it on these grounds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in previous speeches on geoblocking, i have highlighted the impetus given by the important decision of the court of justice of 6 october 2015. the new regulatory approach to transatlantic data flows seems to have taken up this challenge, in order to ensure the protection of personal data and the development of business activities, but the underlying reflection is that in the inertia of the agreements with the united states there has already been a lesion of the fundamental principles of individuals, in the collection of private data flows and in the unwitting control of their lives. the strict obligations imposed on companies with regard to the personal data of european citizens and the monitoring of compliance with these obligations must therefore be enforced, but first of all the transparency obligations imposed on the united states must be highlighted, with really effective appeal procedures. in this enormous amount of stolen sensitive data, it is impossible to exercise effective domestic control and, in the event of a possible breach, the role of the commission is emphasized, which i hope will not wait for the court of justice again.
in writing. data flows between the eu and the us are the most intensive in the world and represent an essential element in trade relations, especially for us multinationals. in october 2015, the european court of justice invalidated the safe harbour decision by ruling that national supervisory authorities can assess the adequacy of the level of protection provided by a third country and, if necessary, suspend the transfer of data. the commission has therefore drawn up a new decision, the so-called 'privacy shield', to ensure that the privacy and personal data of european citizens are respected. however, this decision does not ensure an adequate level of protection and safeguarding of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. in the us, foreigners' data is nothing but a commodity that can be used as it sees fit without any respect for privacy. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the schengen agreement with the united states. our task is to protect citizens from any abuse and with this text we are de facto legalising any use of sensitive european data by the us.
i'm asking for a blue card. i have a blue card for mr bas eickhout. i would like to know under what circumstances the green group would be prepared to support a motion of censure. what must happen for the green group to support a motion of censure? because it seems to me that given all the circumstances, it seems odd that you didn't back her up.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we should first of all explain to the public that endocrine disruptors are harmful substances, particularly to the health of our children during their developmental years. possible related diseases include reproductive, behavioral, learning disorders, cancer, and, most likely, obesity and diabetes. but the public should also know that the european commission should have drawn up a list of these endocrine disruptors but has not done so. the commission was therefore condemned by the court of justice for its failure to comply with the court of justice's provisions and, despite this, it has completely disregarded the provisions of the court of justice. that is why we have tabled a motion of censure, because an institution cannot afford to ignore a judgment of the european court of justice. i therefore say to the group of the people, the socialist group, the alde group, the ecr group, that is to say to all those who did not support the motion of censure: how far do you have to follow the directions of the lobby? how can we accept even what is beyond the impassable limits of public health? a personal thought goes to the green group. the greens are the ones who make the most beautiful speeches in this house, but it is a pity that what they say is the opposite of what they do. i now understand why the greens have disappeared from the italian political scene, mr bas eickhout. to the podemos and gue members who signed the motion of censure but then withdrew their signatures so as not to have their names associated with those of le pen, i say that they are completely out of the picture. they're like those japanese who keep fighting because no one has explained to them that the war is over. and i am convinced that if they had the chance to save a human life, they would first go and check if le pen's signature was somewhere. now they are all united in a resolution which we know very well will have no binding effect on this commission. you look ridiculous to me. i would like to thank all those who have signed the motion of censure, because they have been able to overcome the ideological barrier which has historically separated us and which prevents us from seeing things that are right in front of us. this is not a stupid ideological war between left and right, this is a cursed war between exploiters and exploited, so we go home to sleep with a clear conscience tonight, because we have done everything possible to defend the health of our children. i don't think anyone else can say that, and frankly, to be able to say it to your face is priceless.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after a delay of more than two years and following a judgment by the court of justice of the european union, the new criteria for the definition of endocrine disruptors should be published shortly, hopefully. the whole debate about scientific criteria is about one term: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. there are substances which have a low endocrine disrupting power but which cause very high daily exposure - think of pesticides for example - and there are other compounds which have a very high power but are found in very low concentrations, to the point where human health would be less affected. allowing the marketing of low potency endocrine disruptors would be very serious, as it would be dangerous for exposure to them that turns them into deadly poisons. i am therefore strongly opposed to the commission's attempts to introduce the potency criterion to define endocrine disruptors, which would inappropriately limit the definition of 'endocrine disruptor' and make it scientifically inconsistent and incompatible with the classification of carcinogens.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more and more activities related to the exercise of fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, are taking place online. the concepts of digital citizenship and digital governance are relatively new concepts, but they will become reality in the not too distant future. we as legislators have the task of identifying the potentialities and the critical points that technological progress creates, so that we can legislate effectively, protecting above all the most vulnerable. when talking about electronic identification and authentication services, some fundamental issues need to be kept in mind, such as the way personal data is collected and processed and the public or non-public nature of the data controllers and the identification service provider. i think it is essential that the identification services should be run by the public, given the sensitivity of the information collected, but this is not always the case in europe. for example, italy has also relied on private parties to develop these services (telecom italia and infocert) by allocating part of the connecting europe facility funds. i ask myself and i ask you at this point: why did this happen? and what is the benefit to the citizens?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that the future of energy is a distributed system of renewable energy production, where individuals and communities, local authorities and small and mediumsized enterprises cooperate in the production, distribution and storage of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the griffin report, which recognises the reality and the role of prosumers, and which will give value to the goals of freedom and prosperity that prosumers are pursuing, giving them legal dignity within the energy union. tomorrow we will also have the opportunity to go further, by supporting amendment no 1, which recognises distributed networks, renewable energy produced and consumed in the context of prosumers as a common good, like water. let's try to look beyond the windows of these buildings, where things happen, where the real demands are to be collected: it is our primary duty as elected officials. we give real answers for the 21st century society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs griffin on her excellent work. i would like to point out that this step gives shape and profile to the role of the european parliament in the construction of the new retail electricity market. on the one hand, market design is rewriting the architecture of the wholesale electricity market, to overcome national distortions and foster a decentralised, flexible, competitive and environmentally sustainable european market. on the other hand, with the griffin report, we support the simplification of the retail regulatory framework, more and better information for consumers, the overcoming of the determination tariffs, stringent measures to combat energy poverty. in other words, we are putting the vulnerable consumers back at the centre of the debate, those who often have to choose between heating and eating and who cannot be left at the mercy of the big energy companies. it is no secret that many european consumers pay unfavourable electricity tariffs because they are not properly directed by operators towards the most advantageous tariff formulas. this practice must end and i am optimistic that with the contribution of the griffin report we will be able to add this piece to the larger mosaic of the construction of the energy union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i think we can make our contribution as the european union.
in writing. recognising that poverty affects significantly more women than men 64.6 million women in europe suffer from it and aware that gender inequality, in addition to discriminating against women, is a brake on economic growth and development, and taking into account the growing inequality caused by the economic crisis and austerity policies, which particularly affects the most vulnerable groups, we express strong support for the arena report. we therefore emphasize with this vote the importance of the gender perspective in the definition of social measures. in particular, we note the strong need for the inclusion of women during the training and vocational phases. we are shocked to see that higher rates of female education and academic success translate into lower rates of employment and lower pay levels than those of men. the gender pension gap is also the result of much more fragmented careers for women workers, who are forced to juggle their careers and family life in a hostile environment. the member states and the european union must acknowledge the lack of progress and step up their efforts to ensure equal opportunities and social justice for all, without distinction of gender.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank mr dalton for this report on non—tariff barriers in the single market. i was grateful to him for the way he set out his arguments in a way – if i may say so – that i found very convincing. i think that we are all clear that deepening the single market is the best way not just to improve the investment climate, the business environment and the productivity of the eu economy, but also to improve service to consumers and to our fellow citizens. as he said about the importance as well of making the single market work for small businesses, as a former small businessman myself, that’s a sentiment that i share entirely. i think although we have successfully removed tariff barriers to trade across the european union, it’s right that there are still too many non—tariff barriers in the way of the proper development of the single market, and those are the focus of our work today and of the communication on the single market that we are set to adopt in june. this will set out our approach to making sure that agreed legislation is consistently enforced across the eu, and i agree with the importance of enforcement, as well as a series of more targeted actions to make sure that the single market is working as well as it can. so, for example, we will present an eu—wide action plan to ensure the mutual recognition of goods is respected, we will revise the mutual recognition regulation – and the goal is that more companies should know their rights and make the most of the opportunities that mutual recognition could create for their businesses. we want authorities to be aware of their obligations and to apply mutual recognition properly, and we also want to create a culture of mutual recognition that’s based on trust and legal certainty across europe. we will be taking action to deepen the single market for services, and here i think that digitalisation offers great new opportunities. the free movement of services is of course enshrined in our treaties. it is fundamental to the single market, but our analysis shows that providing services across european borders or setting up a branch or a subsidiary in another member state could be simplified further. the commission estimates that more ambitious implementation of the services directive could add 1.8% to eu gdp. so it’s a price worth having. we want to make the provision of services easier inside the eu. we are developing the services passport, which is a voluntary electronic procedure to reduce the burden for service providers who want access other member states’ markets. in my own area of financial services we are working to build a single market for capital in europe – the capital markets union – and at the heart of that project is the goal of channelling investment to projects that need financing. so, to make it easier for companies to invest, we will bring forward proposals to reduce non—tariff barriers that complicate cross—border investment, like differences in insolvency law for example. i think the way to approach this is to identify the barriers that there are to cross—border sale of services, identify those barriers one by one with member states and work out ways to address them. i am looking forward to working with the european parliament in all these areas to take the single market further and to support competition, to support investment and to support growth in europe. i hope, like the rapporteur, that this report will give us impetus and some of the evidence as well that will help guide us in our work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, virtual currencies are taking on an increasingly important role in our economy. personally, i have doubts, given the state of the art of technology, the level of security of financial transactions and the rise of cybercrime, about their concurrent or coordinated spread with traditional money or their widespread use in financial markets. it's not just a payment system, like a credit card, but it uses what's called mining to make money. its security is based on extreme encryption protocols and open source software: the report's precautions therefore have a common basis. the currency and financial markets are not ready for this revolution and the banking markets do not want it: banks, as this currency makes transactions cheaper; the currency markets because of the enormous volatility of the stock that can destabilize the markets. the big absentees are the institutions themselves, which inexplicably do not close the technological gap and do not even bother to regulate its spread right away, despite the fact that these systems can seriously disrupt world economies, much more than subprime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the remembrance made today by president schulz of our dear colleague marco pannella is only partially acceptable, he has made him a kind of icon of this european union; but those who knew him, and we knew and appreciated this jaurès of the present day, were certainly not admirers of the hyper-bureaucratic drift of this european union. he was a man of freedom, who always defended - and for this i appreciated him - the right of everyone to political expression, to freedom of expression, and this is the fundamental value of his political commitment, of a man "against", who was such, with courage, independence and freedom even on these benches, and for this we must remember him, without transforming him, remember him as he was: a man of "against", a man of freedom. - what's up?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again exceptional weather events are devastating the territory of southern italy, causing enormous damage to productive activities. this time it was puglia's turn to reckon the consequences of a violent hailstorm, which hit the metropolitan area of bari and in particular the municipalities of casamassima, san michele, conversano, putignano, turi, rutignano and castellana. a 20-centimeter ice sheet covered the crops with particular consequences, especially for the ceramic sector. damage is also being reported to olive groves and vineyards, and initial estimates suggest that the wave of bad weather has caused damage worth about 100 million euros. unfortunately, especially in the mediterranean area, heavy rainfall and other extreme weather events are becoming more frequent. the possibility of applying for recognition of the state of natural disaster is being considered at the moment and the conditions for the adoption of the european solidarity fund and other measures are being verified, for which europe, if called upon, will certainly give its support.
the crisis in the dairy sector, which has been going on for months, has taken on continental, if not global, dimensions. in the face of this situation, the measures put in place so far have proved not only ineffective but even counterproductive in some cases. the worrying data on production levels in recent months, which despite the steady fall in prices, continue to increase, is proof of this. the latest analysis by the commission shows an increase in production in the first three months of the year, on an annual basis, of 7%. the €500 million package last autumn was followed in march by the proposal for national or even local measures, which could be implemented voluntarily in the member states and financed by the member states themselves from their own resources. instead of exploiting the potential of a coordinated use of resources to curb european production, the idea of identifying measures to be managed at the level of individual member states is proving to be a failure and has as a direct consequence the risk of a progressive renationalisation of the cap, the only policy which has always been a factor of european integration. to deal with a continental crisis, we therefore need instruments with a european dimension, which will enable the union to regain the leading role it has long enjoyed. it is therefore time for the commission to launch an urgent procedure without further delay in order to arrive at the earliest possible legislative act which, on the one hand, provides for emergency supply-containment measures and, on the other, responds with structural responses which improve crisis management tools and mitigate the impact of the price regime on our production chains. if we had not wasted time by denying for a long time a crisis which has been evident since the beginning of last year, but had applied the measures which this parliament has repeatedly pointed out, our farmers would not be in this situation, mr commissioner.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are here today to discuss the crisis in the dairy sector in europe. we are looking for measures to give support, we are looking for funding, but the truth is that we are killing our farmers and in particular our livestock farmers, forcing them day after day to fall under the weight of economic measures that are strangling them. the european union continues to promise aid, but what farmers need is urgent regulatory action, not subsidies. as we continue to waste time, the data is describing a reality we can no longer ignore: 600 suicides in france, 500 in germany, 400 in belgium. in italy the situation is no better: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined. it is in the interests of all of us to ensure that europe is the world leader in the production of excellence. if we do not do this, ladies and gentlemen, we shall no longer be talking about suicides but about murders, for which the inadequate policies of this europe will be solely responsible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must choose which side it will take. the council, the commission and this parliament must decide which side they will take, the farmers' side or the multinational companies and the large-scale milk distributors'. i am with the producers and the consumer citizens. i am in favour of compulsory origin labelling for all dairy products, and of an end to the sanctions against russia which have caused enormous damage to this sector through the resulting embargo. we need real aid to produce more, not less. how can you tell italian producers to produce less milk when 85 million tonnes of milk arrive in italy from abroad every year? how can you say that? our farms are closing, which means hitting the heart of the food industry, which means destroying this industry: 1,500 stables closed last year. i hope that the italian government will defend this sector and not suffer in silence the wrong choices that are being made here and have been made in the past.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. i sometimes wonder what we really want. if we continue with the policy we have had up to now, we will continue to produce milk in europe, we will only produce it elsewhere. we will produce them where it is cheapest and where it is easiest. but what will remain is a battlefield. many abandoned farms will remain, especially where milk production is more difficult, in remote areas and especially in mountainous areas. if we want to maintain milk production throughout europe - and i think that is also a goal, because milk production in the mountains in particular also means the preservation of agriculture in and of itself - then we must change our policy. then we must be more imaginative, and then we must support, for example, those farms in the mountainous areas which produce high-quality products and are therefore able to generate higher value added. if, as the president-in-office of the council has said, there is a new package, it would be very appropriate for us to discuss it in this house. then we might be a little more imaginative than when we spent the last 500 million.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the dairy sector is no longer an emergency, it is becoming structural. the data that testify to the danger of this dimension of the crisis are truly alarming. in the first half of 2016, production rose by more than 7%, and of course the most affected producers are small producers, who, in countries like my own, italy, represent 50% of farms and have no hope of surviving in this environment, which is not competitive and is totally deregulated. it is precisely the survival of these products that we must think about and it is in their interest that a series of actions must be initiated as soon as possible to ensure the survival of the sector. supply management is necessary, yes, financing is necessary to control prices, but it is important to act on communication. the labelling of the origin of the raw material, information campaigns and promotion are fundamental measures to give the consumer the freedom to choose and to enhance the products using domestic milk and to give producers the opportunity to focus on the quality of their milk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not nostalgic about the return to quotas, but it is clear that the transition from one regime to another cannot be left to chance. no controls: today, thousands of businesses are on the verge of bankruptcy. there is no capacity to conquer new markets, there is no capacity for new products, there is no capacity to recognise the areas of production which are fundamental for consumer choice. there has been no major change in the 28 member states' system, where those productions, those minimal productions, which safeguard minimal territories, difficult territories, are recognised. in the speeches of my italian colleagues i heard - although a speech was made in german, but it was an italian colleague - the recognition of those small areas where important actions are being carried out more environmentally than agriculturally but which have an agricultural recognition and a great environmental recognition. there, the passage is quick: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to all members who have contributed to this debate. i wanted to thank meps köstinger and kumpula-natri for their forestry meeting at 8 a.m. this morning. i am glad that mr flanagan will be able to get that information. today’s dairy crisis is not, as some would have us believe, a factor of the abolition of dairy quotas; rather it is something of a perfect storm, as mr selimovic said earlier on, which reflects increased production throughout the world at the same time as access to the russian market was lost and demand in china had been reduced. but i can assure mr nicholson and others that i am not at all blaming producers for over-production, but i am agreeing with him that producers have to take their share of responsibility in terms of bringing about balance in the marketplace between demand and supply. and that is what article 222 is about. it is a voluntary measure, but i have doubled the state aid ceilings in order to allow member states to incentivise article 222 measures if they so wish. mr blanco lópez has mentioned earlier that i have taken no measures in the last few months in order to deal with this particular crisis. in fact i have taken 23 measures since last september. and i have already told you that a significant number of member states and regions, in respect of the targeted aid package last september, have not yet spent their money. i would remind mr dantin that it is very difficult to seek more money if eight member states, including france, have not spent their allocation yet from last september. i think it is important as well that we have to be realistic about the possibility of new money, when you consider that in recent days one german minister suggested that 10% of all programme expenditure should be diverted directly to address the refugee crisis. so is this the view of the german meps? you can see how difficult it is to get additional money when that is the particular message being advised in the system. mr häusling advises me to put a cap on milk production, but he also advises me to give more support to the farmers in the anc areas in order to produce more – slightly contradictory, and it therefore indicates how difficult it is to get solutions. i think a number of people have mentioned the possibility of the crisis reserve. any further financial support would inevitably raise the issue of the activation of the crisis reserve, which could generate in excess of eur 400 million. its activation has been suggested, and i have been reluctant to propose its activation in the past because it represents nothing more than a redistribution of farmers’ payments. however, it is something that i am prepared to consider, and the ultimate decision, of course, will be yours. in relation to the mmo, your vote today and on previous occasions proposed a strengthening of the milk market observatory, and i have done that. i believe that the mmo is now playing a very important role in providing up-to-date, reliable information, on the basis of which, operators and other stakeholders can make important commercial decisions. i have not been able to go into full detail today in relation to those member states who are generating the largest increases in dairy production, but all of that information is readily available on the website of the mmo, proving that it is a credible source of transparent information. as well as turning to the commission as a source of additional support for a sector which is clearly in crisis and for a longer time than would reasonably have been anticipated, i would invite member states to consider if they have exhausted the full range of measures under the rural development programme. it is up to member states to trigger these mechanisms. at a time of crisis, cash flow is important, and this is one of the reasons why i have been frustrated at the slow roll-out by a number of member states of the targeted aid, and also the fact that i am aware of the challenge that it will be for some paying agencies to have some payments made that are outstanding by the end of june 2016. for this reason i am looking carefully at how best the commission can help those member states, and by extension the farmers, without the application of any penalty. finally mr president, while we are in the midst of this crisis, it is difficult to take time to stand back and assess the adequacy of the toolbox for which we must work, but we have to do that sooner or later. perhaps in the context of proposing any changes to the existing cap that will help to deal with risk management would also help to target measures better.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament for their remarks but also for their suggestions, and certainly the presidency will take them with us to our next discussion in the council of june, because there we are going to discuss again the very severe situation in the dairy sector as well as the need for additional measures. i would like to reiterate what was said by commissioner hogan: that the commission and the council were not resting on their laurels. many measures have been taken, not only in september but also in march, and of course we see some effects of those measures – perhaps not enough, but there are effects of those measures, and the situation could have been worse if we did not have taken those measures. and yes, i would like to reiterate that we need a european approach. but the council also clearly stated that we have to take into account national circumstances, and the council is very much agreeing with remarks of mr de castro and mr deß, that we at the same time have to ensure that there is a level playing field within the european union. it is also clear that there is no ‘one size fits all’ solution. we have to be creative, but also what was said by commissioner hogan, we have to work within the current framework of the common agriculture policy. and it is clear that the council also stated that we do not want to go back to a quota system. i agree with what was said by mr huitema, that we have to improve the situation of the farmers in the supply chain. we have to give them a fair price for their products. therefore the work of the market taskforce installed by the european commission is so important, and in the june council we have the first report of this taskforce and hopefully we get some interesting and creative ideas. also i and the council would like to reiterate the words of mr ashworth as well as mr huitema: that we have to make sure that the farmers maintain the position as drivers of the dairy chain. they are the first responsible persons to take action. but at the same time, of course, we have to support those farmers and see how we can help them balancing supply and demand. in this respect i also would like to thank mr jakovčić for referring to the dutch model. it is not the dutch model of the dutch government but it is also the dutch model of the dutch dairy producers, and they are looking into niche markets, into improving quality, into new market concepts. but they are also now at this moment discussing possibilities of reduction of the milk production in the netherlands on a voluntary basis, and i think it is up to the council in june to see how we can support those initiatives of farmers’ organisations to reduce the milk production. last but not least, i would like to reiterate and underline the words of ms mcguinness as well as mrs schreijer-pierik: that also the banks and industry have to take their responsibility. also they have to give their support to measures to be taken by farmers and governments, and in this respect i think one of the measures which were taken in march to support the banking sector to be involved is the possibility of member states to give some support to liquidity problems in close relation with the banks.
in writing. the european union is the main culprit behind the collapse in the price of milk, which, at an average of 27 cents a litre today, is bringing the livestock sector to its knees and causing thousands of farms to close. in italy alone, more than 1,000 farms were closed in 2015. there is not only a question of controlling production levels, there is a question of the 'value' of raw materials, which is continually being degraded by european rules which, for example, do not yet provide for mandatory origin labelling for all dairy products and in fact give priority to the industrial and large-scale organised distribution sector over the primary sector. the council and the commission must therefore act swiftly by means of legislative acts to provide the livestock sector with a fairer market, which gives greater value to the raw material produced by farmers, in the context of a chain which must be reorganised and made more competitive.
in writing. the crisis in the dairy sector has now become structural: the european market alone has a surplus of 700 000 tonnes, prices are falling and production is continuing to increase. however, despite the dramatic nature of the situation, it seems that the budgetary margins for intervention are limited. it's really paradoxical. the commission must introduce exceptional and extraordinary measures because the crisis in the sector is so dramatic. the activation of article 222 is good news but it cannot be enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk sector is restored to its former dignity. the rules on labelling, indications of origin and traceability must be strengthened, innovative insurance systems must be introduced and measures must be taken to correct imbalances in the food chain. it is a joint and courageous effort by the commission and the council. a specific programme should be adopted to regulate and restore the competitiveness of the sector with a multiannual strategy to promote radical reorganisation and restructuring.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank and greet the commissioner and i would like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in the single market strategy. you see, today, with the approval of the single market strategy, we are responding to the needs of our businesses, especially small and mediumsized ones, and to our consumers and citizens. the internal market is the real instrument for promoting the concept of europe as a single economic power and not always divided by the 28 selfish states represented by the member states. today we will send a strong signal, not in words, but in deeds, to the economic crisis. to overcome it we must stay close to our productive sectors, to our families, who are understood both as workers and as consumers. what the member states have failed to do in recent years, well, we are doing much more quickly. i'll go through point by point, very quickly, what we're going to get. first, the balance between the debts of the public administration and the taxation of enterprises. a state cannot demand payment of taxes when it is not itself solvent with businesses, so we want to automate the difference between giving and taking. you see, in my country alone, more than 5,000 businesses are now bankrupt because of uncollected debts from the public administration. we cannot accept that the state is the architect of this, because it is incapable of being solvent. the market law also exists for public administration, as it is required of companies. we do not want a state that kills itself, but a state that supports business. second chance: if a company has failed because of uncollected loans or because of natural disasters, we have a duty to help by financing its reconstruction. europe is much closer to its citizens than one might think, and we are demonstrating this with action. thirdly, the diversity of tax regimes. we in europe have different tax regimes which make life difficult for our businesses and our citizens. the commission's proposals for the harmonization of tax systems are welcome, as is the proposal we have put forward, namely the possibility of introducing a single tax in the e-commerce sector. i have stressed the need for better access to european funds for small and mediumsized enterprises, easier translations, and shorter submission times. we must make it easier for businesses, especially small ones, to receive money and to submit projects. the passport of the service: it's going to look like a miracle, but today we're doing it. a simple and equal way for everyone to file documents and set up businesses across europe. see, this is less red tape, equal justice for all and the best man wins: it's the law of the market. finally, mr president, the famous 'made in' - you, as an italian, can understand me very well. and here, commissioner, is where our credibility is at stake: several impact studies tell us that citizens want more product detail, traceability, transparency and real protection, and i believe that traceability is the element of safeguarding our quality, a quality that is important and fundamental to our economy as well. you see, if i may be blunt, it's time to unblock this thing. the european parliament and the commission have already given their approval for market surveillance and we await the council's approval. it is not up to us to take a step backwards, but it is up to the member states to have the courage to overcome their national selfishness and to finally approve the made in. people need to know who is responsible for always blocking our work; we pass laws to support businesses and citizens, laws that reduce red tape, but the council always comes to a halt. it is time to stop, because this stop represents the real failure of europe. we have seen this with immigrants, mr president, with the late payment directive, with the data protection regulation, and now enough. today's vote, commissioner, will no longer give the council any alibi to reject the made in. we trust you and president juncker because, you see, we propose and approve real and useful solutions to solve the problems of the citizens. that means we are popular and not populist, because we are substance and not appearance.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. i would like to say to my colleagues that it is important to establish a system of protection based on geographical indications for non-food products, a system which would allow the excellence of our continent to be recognized in its own way. i also call on commissioner bieńkowska, who is here, to draw up as soon as possible a legislative proposal on the indication of origin and production on the label, the famous made in. more information can help consumers make a more informed and informed choice, but it does not hinder the free movement of goods. the single market must certainly be developed around common rules, we must all speak the same language, but it must not be a game of drawdown. in my view, europe will be strong if it can make the most of the specific features of its territory. europe will be strong if it can build a market for informed and aware citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in agreement with the report and will of course vote in favour of the issues raised. but i wonder, are not the same people who have been running this europe for decades the ones who are presenting the issues? so it reminds me a little of renzi, who puts the taxes first, then takes them off, then puts them back on and compliments himself. for example, bolkestein is a disgusting thing, which is a disaster for italy especially, and there is still bolkestein. we have the bathing operators, we have the ambulance drivers who complain about this paradoxical situation in italy, and what do we do? the rules on the internal market. they relocate a lot of companies to slovakia, slovenia, romania, and what happens here? that, for example, italian truck drivers are persecuted compared to those who compete unfairly. then we have the made in and we have asked and we are asking to vote today on the compulsory nature of the made in, because as it is written, the clever one is always the usual germany. we want to have a mandatory indication of where things are produced, not to pretend that nothing is happening, because once again germany, which is part of the epp, is doing what it wants, as usual, it is doing and undoing, it looks like penelope. so, let's go ahead and vote on the made-in requirement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing is very important, the single market strategy is indeed a necessary reference for millions of european citizens. the rapporteur and the shadows have worked with expertise and passion on this subject and have given us what i believe is a major enrichment of the commission's original proposal, which was not ambitious enough. i would like to emphasize that the social content of the internal market plays a decisive role, as has already been said. european citizens must recognize themselves in these strategies, they must see them as effective, because they improve their living conditions, their status as citizens when they work or simply when they live in their community. we must therefore emphasize and then make it feasible to advance their rights and material conditions. for this reason it is very important, for example, to recognise that equal pay for equal work is the same. it is a fundamental right, it is the recognition of a condition of uniformity, which i do not see why it should be called into question. secondly, these citizens must be guaranteed as consumers. their fundamental rights are those of awareness through knowledge. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good sign of the fact that the commission is not yet in a position to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment. finally, i believe that it is very important for the benefit of the firm and, at the same time, of those who work, that there be decisive procedures in an economy for the fairness of tax behaviour, such as those which are being urged. transparency has a value in itself and has a great impact on general economic conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission communication and the report we are discussing today outline a long-term strategy, reaffirming europe's vocation as a continent capable of offering itself and the world a model of efficient, sustainable and socially advanced development. the promotion of quality products and their close links with the regions are one of the pillars of our economic and social model, which europe must protect, otherwise it will be irrelevant on the global market. the system of protection of geographical indications currently in force for agricultural products, which has effectively protected european qualities, should also be extended to non-agricultural goods. we hope, commissioner, that the commission will not delay any further in presenting a legislative proposal which responds to the political will which this parliament has already shown by a very large majority only a few months ago. secondly, the protection of quality products is achieved by recognizing the obligation to indicate the origin of products, the so-called made in standard, which has already been adopted by many of our trading partners. i believe that the search for a noble compromise which would introduce, at least in some key areas, a principle which would finally guarantee both consumers and our production system is a necessary act of responsibility on the part of the council and one which the commission must effectively facilitate. mr president, i too would like to make a final point. the great achievement of the common market and its necessary strengthening, however, risks breaking down against the wall of national selfishness, in the absence of a strategic vision. a single market without a political soul will remain a mere bureaucratic construction, capable only of fuelling the anti-europeanism of european public opinion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking and acknowledging the great work done by the rapporteur, mrs lara comi, because with her work she has certainly improved the single market strategy and added a new important and decisive chapter to what is a battle of the italian delegation, but not only, ever since the european parliament has existed i might say, because, having put amendment 82 on the mandatory indication of origin we are now able to give again, as parliament, after having already voted on it on 15 april 2014 within the product safety and surveillance package, a clear message to the commission and to the commissioner present here: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will make every effort to unblock the negotiations that have been blocked in the council, because that is what consumers expect. the consumer is a key step in giving our economy a new impetus, with benefits for everyone, for businesses, but above all for all european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you all for your constructive comments and i would like to make just two points. the first concerns the case of the beach-goers and the street-walkers. first of all, i have been following this case for seven years and it is not a campaign advert that has always appeared before elections, it is a predominantly italian problem, because the bolkestein law has been accepted and implemented in italy, so it will be the italian government, and i thank the commissioner, who is awaiting the draft law, for his availability. so europe has nothing to do with this. second, i'd just like to send a message. instead of always blaming others, perhaps it is better to look at ourselves at home, because to win battles you have to be there at the negotiations, at the meetings and at the votes and we are not in a regime, especially when last minute amendments are tabled a few days before the vote, the person who is presenting them knows very well that they will not have a result, because they are not agreed with either the rapporteur or, above all, with the groups. you see, i think, and i'll end with a sentence, "love always conquers hate and envy", and maybe someone needs to have less envy and less hate.
in writing. the relaunch of the internal market can bring opportunities and resources of great benefit to europe: the community's project is based on the capacity for production and competitiveness built up over the years as a result of the integration of the common market. for a country like italy, which has a value of excellence in quality manufacturing and small and mediumsized enterprises, the consolidation of the internal market network is certainly a strategic asset, and i therefore welcome the strong and authoritative message that this house is sending to the european commission with the report on the common market strategy. europe is a citizenship area which is part of one of the largest areas in the world by commercial weight: the combination of high quality production and modernisation of the market is the key to ensuring european competitiveness. i would therefore like to stress the important statement in favour of the principle of 'made in content' in this report, a principle which this house has repeatedly reiterated and which has been successful in guiding the new strategies of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has for the first time dealt with virtual currencies based mainly on distributed ledger technology (dlt) in this report. the report refers to a clear definition of virtual currencies, as well as to a lean and efficient legislation. the report also proposes the creation of a horizontal task force, composed of the main players and experts in the field of virtual currencies. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies, often referred to as digital money, are a new means of payment based largely on distributed ledger technology (dlt). among these virtual currencies, the most relevant is undoubtedly bitcoin, which holds, although it has not reached systemic size, 90% of the market. the von weizsäcker report, which i supported with my vote, effectively highlights the opportunities and challenges that are linked to the use of virtual currencies and dlt. their introduction has already led to a reduction in the cost of operations but could prove even more important in the future in areas where standardisation, reliability and ownership play a crucial role, such as public services, smart contracts, intellectual property transfers and supply chain management. the text also calls for the introduction of smart regulation that does not stifle the technological growth associated with dlt applications, while ensuring that the risks associated with the misuse of these means for illicit purposes, such as money laundering and terrorist financing, are avoided. to this end, the european commission should set up a task force to regulate virtual currencies
in writing. ‒ the von weizsäcker report on virtual currencies is not entirely agreeable and presents some passages that could lead to criticisms. that's why i didn't want to support you with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in view of the rapid evolution of virtual currencies, this resolution calls on the commission to investigate the phenomenon and in particular developments in the blockchain database. consumer awareness, transparency and trust remain important also at the virtual level and therefore the resolution calls on the commission to develop guidelines to ensure that current and future users are provided with correct and clear information, to enable them to make informed choices and to increase the transparency of virtual currency systems with regard to how they are organised and operated and the characteristics that distinguish them, in terms of consumer protection, from regulated and supervised payment systems. it is also clear that virtual currencies can also be the subject of money laundering practices or can be involved in terrorist financing channels. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the exchange of information on the use of electronic money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that virtual currencies have a huge potential to make life easier for european citizens by accelerating, decentralising, automating and standardising data-driven processes at a lower cost. these features could therefore contribute to financial inclusion and the achievement of the g20 and g8 "5x5" objective.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are an exciting new and growing tool, which can, in particular, significantly reduce the cost of payment transactions while ensuring user privacy. it is in fact the only payment method (other than cash) currently available which allows real-time settlement, i.e. the recipient receives 100% of the money at the time of payment. for these reasons, i support the further development of virtual currencies, not least because they represent an interesting tool to encourage and stimulate the growth of the european single market. in this context, i believe that we should promote the development of common and uniform rules at european level, which would promote a level playing field between the various member states and prevent phenomena such as money laundering and the financing of terrorism, but which should not, at the same time, penalize the possible development of virtual currencies in other alternative areas of payments by means of too strict preventive rules.
in writing. ‒ the issue of virtual currencies based on dlt technology does not yet appear to reach a 'structural' dimension that would justify standardisation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies and i share its reservations, first of all, in view of the following background: the currency and financial markets are not ready for this revolution and the banking markets do not want it. it is enough to consider, at this point, that they are opposed by the banks, because this currency makes transactions cheaper than paypal, much better than credit cards, and by the currency markets, because of the enormous volatility of the stock, which can destabilize the markets. preventive regulation is needed. technological innovations can spread very rapidly and become systemic. that is why we are asking the commission to set up a task force to actively monitor technological developments and, if necessary, to make timely proposals for specific regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the benefits and risks of using virtual currencies as a new form of payment that is becoming increasingly important in international markets. i voted in favour of the report, which is balanced in its analysis of the possible risks and benefits for european consumers. the report also stresses the need for regulation of this new form of payment and for a universal definition of virtual currency.
in writing. ‒ the spread of virtual currencies (bitcoins) is particularly strong in the so-called distributed ledger technology (dlt), which is the technological foundation of over 600 virtual currency systems. although not yet systemic, the value of virtual currencies in circulation is over eur 5 billion. reduced transaction costs and operational costs for payments could be beneficial for citizens, but for bitcoin to become widely used, it will need to be properly regulated to ensure that transactions meet high levels of security. the volatility of virtual currencies is particularly conducive to the creation of speculative bubbles but above all to 'black market' transactions such as money laundering or the financing of criminal activities. the resolution calls for the creation of a task force within the european commission, composed of technical and regulatory experts on dlt, to examine and possibly draw up a flexible legal framework that does not penalise innovation but is able to effectively counter the risks posed by these new technologies. i therefore considered that i should vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the technological transformation of the financial system with the introduction of virtual currencies represents important opportunities in terms of lower transaction costs and ease of use. at the same time, it is necessary to monitor the risks associated with the development of such technology to consumers, who must be protected by transparent transactions and clear and complete information. only by ensuring that the system is working properly and that users are aware of the use of virtual currencies can they gain confidence in their use. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that we need to develop effective regulation which is sufficiently dynamic to adapt to technological innovation, while fully respecting consumer rights. in this regard, it is essential to establish control and supervisory bodies to monitor innovations in the application of those financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies can contribute positively to citizens' well-being and economic development, including in the financial sector, through, for example, a reduction in both transaction costs and the cost of access to finance and a boost in the speed of payment systems. however, virtual currency systems may also entail risks, such as the high volatility of virtual currencies and the risk of speculative bubbles, user protection issues and criminal activities such as the possibility of black market transactions, money laundering, terrorist financing. the european parliament resolution, which i voted for, suggests that to address these risks and increase the reliability of virtual currencies, a balance needs to be struck between strengthening regulatory capacity and a sound legal framework that is in step with innovation, while maintaining a certain flexibility and avoiding that premature regulation, which is ill-suited to a still evolving reality, can convey a wrong message to the public about the benefits or safety of virtual currencies.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has suggested the overall approach that the eu should take with regard to virtual currencies and the technologies underlying them, distributed ledger technology. an innovative universe that arouses curiosity, given its infinite possibilities for development and use, but also some sincere perplexity, due to its possible use for illicit purposes, such as money laundering, fraud, tax evasion or even the financing of criminal activities. i am pleased with the final outcome of the von weizsäcker report, which proposes the creation of a specific european task force on the subject, which in the coming months will be able to analyse and monitor this constantly evolving phenomenon, so as to fully explore its enormous potential and possible new uses, not only in the financial sector, but also in e-government services or legal services, for example, which could make life easier and simpler for our citizens. the technologies related to virtual currencies are one of the many facets of the ongoing digital revolution and should be addressed through the definition of a european-level strategy that addresses the matter in a coordinated, coherent and cross-cutting manner, without ever forgetting the full protection and information of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the innovation in distributed ledger technology (dlt) is set to have a considerable impact on the financial sector and beyond. this technology, in principle, makes it possible to record any type of transaction in a 'distributed ledger' in a decentralised, fast and secure manner. the main opportunities offered by virtual currencies and dlt in the field of payments are related to lower transaction costs and ease of use, while ensuring resilience and varying levels of confidentiality.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i am sceptical about its operation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution of the european parliament on virtual currencies, which calls on the european commission to provide a legal framework for monitoring the so-called blockchain database, i.e. the infrastructure on which many servers are based, which allows transactions in virtual currency, because i strongly share the fear that the use of the database will encourage money laundering. it's been seven years since the launch of bitcoin, the most well-known virtual currency, which is set to have an increasingly significant impact on the financial sector and beyond. this and other virtual currencies base their existence on blockchain database technology, which allows for a decentralized, fast, resilient and fairly secure recording of any type of transaction. the european parliament, however, remains deeply sceptical about the overall extent of the transformation under way in terms of the risks associated with it, first and foremost the money laundering and the the commission is therefore calling for a timely initiative, in particular the extension of the scope of the anti-money laundering directive to virtual currency exchange platforms. the european parliament also calls for government agencies to take a holistic approach to virtual currency, ensuring real-time reporting and countering tax evasion (vat).
in writing. the issue of virtual currencies is a matter of great concern and requires a great deal of attention. when we talk about virtual currencies, we are referring to reproductions of digital values that are privately managed, thus defined as private digital money, and which are mainly based on a distributed ledger technology (dlt). it forms the technological foundation of many virtual currency systems, the best known of which is bitcoin. the report to be voted on today states that these are decentralised databases capable of processing large amounts of financial transactions in an instant and that they have the potential to transform not only the virtual currency environment but also financial technology. in approving this text, we recall that consumer awareness, transparency and trust must be the main reference points in the use of virtual currencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on virtual currencies. i worked on this report as a shadow rapporteur. we have reached agreement to support action to regulate the use of virtual currencies which will follow the rapidly expanding development of this kind of reality. the trend will be towards lower transaction costs and faster transaction efficiency. this is a new and still little known subject, but one which is certainly growing rapidly and which may be of great use to consumers, and which will nevertheless receive a great deal of attention in terms of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on virtual currencies. the european parliament has once again shown its ability to keep pace with the times by tackling a new issue which still touches our lives marginally but which could potentially change our daily lives profoundly. virtual currencies, as defined by the bank of italy, are digital representations of value, used as a medium of exchange or held for investment purposes, which can be transferred, stored and traded electronically. at present, virtual currencies are not legal tender but can be used by users to purchase goods or services, if the seller is willing to accept them. the most famous example is bitcoin, which today represents the largest share of the virtual currency market. although not yet considered to be money, virtual currency is certainly an innovative, fast, inexpensive and effective payment system. the institutions must therefore continue to monitor the phenomenon and try to introduce a system of rules that is streamlined and effective, which addresses and resolves the critical issues identified in this report.
in writing. ‒ the first and most well-known virtual currency, bitcoin, has been introduced for seven years now and it is clear that the technological innovation at its core, distributed ledger technology (dlt), is set to have a considerable impact on the financial sector and beyond. this technology allows for the decentralised, fast, resilient and fairly secure recording of any type of transaction. investment in dlt technology is increasing significantly and some applications could soon become systemic. the most obvious opportunities offered by these new technologies are primarily in the area of payments, allowing for cost reductions while ensuring security and confidentiality. on the other hand, the potential of dlt is also relevant for other areas such as smart contracts, intellectual property transfers, supply chain management and a number of public services. the most obvious risks (but others will probably emerge over time) include money laundering and the financing of criminal and terrorist activities. in such a rapidly changing environment, it is right to want, as this report calls for, smart regulation that encourages the free development of new technologies, but at the same time tackles risks before they become systemic.
in writing. ‒ this report is the first to be produced by the european parliament on virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology. the main opportunities offered by virtual currencies and dlt in the area of payments are related to the reduction of transaction costs and ease of use. furthermore, it is likely that much of the potential of dlt will develop well beyond the payments sector, for example in areas where reliability and the ability to prove the identity of ownership play a central role, i.e. so-called 'smart contracts'. i therefore voted in favour and hope that we can soon reach a clear and effective regulation of this payment system.
in writing. ‒ the growing phenomenon of virtual currencies raises new issues, in particular with regard to the economic and legal regime of their status and of the transactions connected with these sui generis monetary instruments. this report is the result of a compromise which i voted in favour of in unity with the ppe group: the need to set up a task force for a thorough and prior assessment of the issue was put before the call for immediate legislative action.
in writing. ‒ in recent times, the phenomenon of virtual currencies has developed and is becoming increasingly popular, including bitcoin. in this resolution, parliament called on the commission to set up a task force to regulate the use and spread of virtual currencies without hindering innovation and development. the task of this task force would be to monitor their development and, if necessary, to intervene in a timely manner. i hope that this task force will be set up in the near future so that it can combat the illegal use of virtual currencies as a means of money laundering or terrorist financing. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ for the first time, the european parliament debated and voted on reports on virtual currencies based mainly on a distributed ledger technology. the report addresses the issue from different perspectives, attempting to analyse the cost-benefit of virtual currencies and calling for appropriate regulation. the positive aspects, generating cost reduction, and the new possible consumer applications based on distributed ledger technology are analyzed. the main risks are mainly related to the lack of clear regulation and the high volatility of these instruments. that is why we voted in favour of the call for an eu-wide regulatory framework taking into account existing legislation to avoid excessive costs. we have asked, as 5 star, for the creation of an expert task force led by the commission to provide expertise on virtual currencies. another request we made in the past was to use the resources already available within the commission, supplementing them with those of the national experts.
in writing. ‒ with this report, the european parliament has for the first time addressed virtual currencies based primarily on distributed ledger technology (dlt), given the growing importance this new form of payment is gaining in international markets. the report deals with the matter from several perspectives. it requires first a clear and unambiguous definition of 'virtual currencies' that is universally applicable. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the application of article 4 of regulation (eu) no 648/2012 of the european parliament and of the council [16]. the report also examines the risks associated with virtual currencies, which are often due to the lack of appropriate regulation and the volatility of these instruments. this is why it is called for an eu-wide regulatory framework to be established, taking into account existing legislation, to avoid excessive burdens. the commission also proposes to establish a horizontal task force, led by the commission and composed of the main actors and experts at national level, to ensure the necessary expertise in the field of virtual currencies. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is the instrument that can directly address the serious employment crises. the jäätteenmäki report proposes to allocate some eur 5 million to relocate 2,132 workers employed in the transport and logistics sector in france. in the absence of viable alternatives, this fund is certainly a tool that can best help redundant workers. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the jäätteenmäki report, which i supported in parliament today, supports the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf for france to support the 2,132 workers made redundant by moryglobal sas following the company's bankruptcy and closure. my vote in favour of the text presented is motivated by the belief that the mobilisation of the egf, with eur 5 146 800, will be crucial to provide a coordinated package of tools dedicated to training, job search and the creation of a personalised career path.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to the value of eur 5 146 800 for the benefit of 2 132 workers in the ground transport and logistics sector following the bankruptcy of the french company moryglobal. the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument for supporting citizens in this time of crisis, but i am firmly convinced that the eu must focus on addressing the underlying malfunctions of the internal market as a whole, rather than just providing economic support to try to support its victims.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the european union's duty to support workers in difficulty because of the effects of globalisation and that moryglobal redundant workers must be supported at this difficult time.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of new economic and financial crises of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market by updating their training and providing them with economic support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution to the workers of moryglobal who have suffered serious displacement as a result of these events.
in writing. ‒ eur 5 146 800 for 2 132 workers in the ground transport and logistics sector following the bankruptcy of the french company moryglobal. between 2007 and 2012 eurostat recorded a contraction of the transported volumes of 13% in europe and 21% in france. this, together with the fall in tariffs and the increase in costs, led to a gradual deterioration of profit margins to a net loss. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the request was made by france in respect of 2,132 redundancies at moryglobal, a company active in the transport sector. i believe that the redundancies at moryglobal are due to the general decline in production in the eu, which has caused the reduction in transport volumes and a price war in the road freight sector, leading to a continuous deterioration of operating margins since 2007 and a series of losses for the sector in particular in france. i regret, and i will repeat this in every statement of my vote, that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions. between 2007 and 2015, italy submitted only 15 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund, 3 of which in 2007, only one in 2008, zero between 2009 and 2010, 7 in 2011, 2 in 2012, zero in 2013, one in 2014 and one in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the request to mobilise around eur 5 million from the egf to help the relocation of 2,132 former workers in the transport and logistics sectors in france. although the egf is not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, in the absence of viable alternatives i voted in favour of the mobilisation proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a useful tool to provide support to those workers who are affected by the consequences of structural changes in the global market. i voted in favour of the procedure for activating the fund after having seen the positive conclusion of the committee on budgets, which states that the application submitted by france fulfils the conditions for a european financial contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not consider the measure in question to be a useful tool for developing policies to promote growth and job creation, nor to be able to give an exhaustive answer as regards redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the concrete aid to 2,132 french workers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep motion for a resolution on the decision of the ep and the council to mobilise a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 5 146 800 in respect of redundancies in the company moryglobal, because the redundancy of 2 123 workers has seriously affected several locations in mainland france in the transport and warehousing sectors. of these, 17% are over 55 and face a higher risk of longterm unemployment and social exclusion. the moryglobal affair, linked to the bankruptcy of mory-ducros, is the consequence of what can be described as a price war in the freight transport sector, with a drastic decrease in physical production in europe and the consequent reduction in the volumes to be transported and in the operating margins of the companies. the workers, once again, have to pay the price of the crisis. the egf's financing of personalised services to assist in finding a job and in vocational retraining, together with the first application of the 'social contract', will therefore make it possible to implement individual and collective measures to protect redundant workers, with particular attention to workers over the age of 55, who account for 19% of redundant workers.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. over the years, it has provided effective support to many workers in difficulty as a result of the crisis. today we are dealing with a request to mobilise the egf for france to support the reintegration of redundant workers in the mory global sas company, which is active in the ground transport and pipeline transport business, but also in warehousing and transport support activities. the actions financed include personalised services for redundant workers, consisting of advice and guidance provided by a group of expert advisers who can identify a personalised career path and a sufficient number of job offers. this is an appropriation of a total amount of eur 5 146 800, which i support with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for france. france submitted an application egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal for a financial contribution from the egf to support the reintegration into employment of some 2 132 redundant workers in moryglobal sas, an undertaking active in the economic sector of inland and pipeline transport, for a total amount of eur 5 146 800 for france. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides support to redundant workers and self-employed workers who are affected by the effects and consequences of the economic and financial crisis by supporting them in finding solutions to stay in the labour market and find new jobs through services such as group and individual information sessions, career transition and guidance to new jobs. the european union must be an example and a guide in development aid.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2015/010 fr/mory global, submitted by france, for a financial contribution to the 'land and pipeline transport' sector. this application was made following 2 132 redundant placements. according to the french authorities, the events that led to the redundancies were the bankruptcy and closure of the company. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of bankruptcy in the road freight transport sector. this is believed to be due to the global financial and economic crisis. i hope that the mobilisation of the egf, amounting to eur 5 146 800, will prove to be a decisive instrument for supporting these workers and a valuable aid for their families.
in writing. ‒ parliament's vote on this report is in favour of the mobilisation of a fund made available to member states to deal with critical situations arising from the impact of the changes in world trade. this measure, which has also benefited italy, is now being used in france to deal with a company bankruptcy which has resulted in more than 2 000 redundancies. the mobilisation of the fund will benefit employment policies that will assist redundant workers and help them find solutions to stay in the labour market and find new jobs through personalised services such as individual and group training sessions, career transition and reintegration support. i voted in favour of this report, along with the ppe group and the majority of the house.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the request to mobilise the egf for a situation concerning france. the jäätteenmäki report provides for the mobilisation of some eur 5 million to help the relocation of 2 132 workers previously employed in the transport and logistics sectors in france. i am generally in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, but in the absence of viable alternatives i still think it should be supported.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. the ní riada report proposes to allocate almost €6.5 million to relocate some 500 workers employed in the food distribution sector in greece. in the absence of viable alternatives, this fund is certainly a tool that can best help redundant workers. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the outbreak of the international economic crisis, and the subsequent greek debt crisis, has led to a collapse in the purchasing power of greek households and a drastic reduction in credit to businesses and individuals. among the many consequences, these processes also led to the bankruptcy and closure of the stores of the cooperative of supermarket larissa, active in central macedonia and thessaly. my vote in favour of the riada report is based on my shared view of the need to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to the 557 redundant workers and the 543 young people in these regions who are not in employment, education or training. this measure will provide a coordinated package of instruments comprising training and mobility allowances as well as start-up grants and training, retraining and vocational training programmes.
in writing. ‒ i have been supporting the mobilisation of the egf to the value of € 6 468 000 for 557 redundant workers and 534 young people under 30 following the bankruptcy of the greek cooperative larissa, operating in the retail trade sector, caused by the collapse of the purchasing power of greek households and the drastic reduction of credit to businesses and individuals. the globalisation adjustment fund remains a key instrument for supporting citizens in this time of crisis, but i believe the eu should do even more to improve its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the european union's duty to support workers in difficulty because of the effects of globalisation and that the redundant workers of the larissa supermarket must be supported at this difficult time.
in writing. ‒ as the application in question is relevant to the legal and social aspects of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), technical assistance should be provided to the companies concerned, with a view to a rapid resumption of their productive activities and full protection of the employment and income of workers and their families.
in writing. - i vote for it. eur 6 468 000 for 557 redundant workers and 534 young people under 30 following the bankruptcy of the greek retail cooperative larissa, as a result of the collapse in the purchasing power of greek households and the drastic reduction in credit to businesses and individuals.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the request was made by greece in respect of 557 redundancies at supermarket larissa, a company active in the retail trade. due to the deep recession in the greek economy, followed by a decline in household consumption and purchasing power, retail food and beverage sales volumes have decreased by more than 30% compared to the volumes at the beginning of the crisis in 2008. the sales of supermarket larissa followed the same trend. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions. between 2007 and 2015, italy submitted only 15 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund, 3 of which in 2007, only one in 2008, zero between 2009 and 2010, 7 in 2011, 2 in 2012, zero in 2013, one in 2014 and one in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the request to mobilise around eur 6.5 million from the egf to help relocate around 500 workers previously employed by a small grocery cooperative operating in the greek regions of central macedonia and thessaly. although the egf is not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, in the absence of viable alternatives i voted in favour of the mobilisation proposal.
in writing. ‒ the situation presented by the greek authorities shows that the collapse of production and the drastic reduction in purchasing power have had extremely negative consequences for enterprises, which need financial aid to promote vocational training, retraining or start-up. after having noted that the application submitted by greece for the globalisation adjustment fund was in accordance with the requirements for obtaining a european financial contribution, as confirmed by the committee on budgets, i decided to vote in favour of the procedure for activating the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not consider the measure in question to be a useful tool for developing policies to promote growth and job creation, nor to be able to give an exhaustive answer as regards redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of concrete aid to more than 1 000 workers following the bankruptcy of the greek cooperative larissa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa submitted by greece, because i consider it important that the eu sends a strong signal of support to greek workers, who are suffering from a very serious social crisis. this egf contribution of eur 6 468 000 is very important because it is intended to support 557 redundant workers, including 543 young people who are neither working nor studying and who represent the distrust of the future that young people in the south of europe are experiencing. the larissa supermarket cooperative case shows once again that simple austerity is not enough: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the measures financed by the egf, in particular vocational guidance, retraining and vocational training, start-up aid, participation allowance and mobility allowance, are therefore a breath of fresh air in a region, thessaly, with a record unemployment rate of 73%.
in writing. as in the previous proposal, i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the egf for greece to provide for the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at the abee larissa supermarket, an enterprise operating in the economic sector of retail trade, in the regions of central macedonia and thessaly. the application, totalling eur 6 468 000, concerns 557 redundant workers and 543 young people who are not in employment or education or training (neets) because of the bankruptcy and closure of the supermarket larissa cooperative. they are the consequence, as described by the greek authorities, of the collapse in household purchasing power and the drastic reduction in credit to businesses and individuals. i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of the fund for these families.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece. greece applied for a financial contribution totalling eur 6 468 000 following the redundancy of 557 workers at the cooperative supermarket larissa abee, an undertaking active in the retail trade, excluding motor vehicles and motorcycles, and the the supermarket cooperative has been particularly affected by the economic and financial crisis as a result of the collapse in the purchasing power of greek households and the drastic reduction in credit to businesses and individuals. the activation of the fund will finance exclusively measures that will contribute to the reintegration of the unemployed into the labour market, thus creating conditions that will enable workers to find temporary or permanent jobs, participate in vocational training programmes and acquire the necessary skills. i believe that special assistance is extremely important for workers who have been made redundant and for those who have been affected by the current world economic climate.
in writing. ‒ on 14 april 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at the larissa abee supermarket. this application relates to the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 6 468 000. it covers 557 redundant workers and 543 young people not in employment or in education or training (neets). the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to improve the added value and efficiency of the egf as a support instrument for redundant workers. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to invest additional resources in this area. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the present report on which parliament is asked to give its opinion concerns the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for greece following the closure of a small-scale cooperative which, despite measures taken to cope with losses, was forced to restructure, resulting in a number of redundancies of young people under the age of 30. in view of the restrictions on access to credit for businesses and the difficulties in integrating young people, the report welcomes, on behalf of parliament, the request made and the support granted by the commission for workers who are going to start their own business, enter a vocational training or retraining course or need a mobility allowance. i voted in favour, along with the ppe group and a very large majority in parliament.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the request to mobilise the egf for a situation concerning greece. the ní riada report is related to the crisis affecting supermarket larissa, a cooperative of small grocery stores operating mainly in the greek regions of central macedonia and thessaly; the requested contribution in this case amounts to almost eur 6,5 million, to help relocate about 500 redundant workers from the larissa supermarket, as well as another 500 young people from the area under the age of 30 who are not working and not participating in any education or training, the so-called neets. i am generally in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, but in the absence of viable alternatives i still think it should be supported.
in writing. ‒ on 20 november 2015, the vercelli court sent the request for authorisation to acquire certain data about the telephone records of a number registered to the member of parliament buonanno. the control of the data requested is essential for the conduct of the criminal proceedings, which were initiated in response to alleged telephone threats against the member. in order to shed light on the matter, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i voted in favour of the waiver of mr gianluca buonanno's immunity. this is a request for access by the investigating authority to the communication records of the honourable member's mobile phone number for the date of 14 april 2015 only. the proceedings relate to alleged telephone threats reported by the member himself as a victim.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr buonanno's request for his parliamentary immunity to be waived in order to allow the italian authorities to investigate the serious threats against his person by unknown persons.
in writing. ‒ following threats received by telephone from unknown persons, in order to obtain the telephone records and identify the author of these calls, it is necessary to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr buonanno's request for his parliamentary immunity to be waived in order to allow the italian authorities to investigate alleged threats against him by unknown persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity in question because it is procedural and not prejudicial and is necessary in order to carry out the appropriate checks, requested by the member himself, to carry out checks by the national authorities on telephone threats received.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for the waiver of mr gianluca buonanno's immunity because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in these cases a guarantor's line must be followed, and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of mrs regner's proposal. in view of the provisions of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union and of the provisions of article 68 of the italian constitution, the request for authorisation by the assistant prosecutor of the tribunal ordinario di vercelli to obtain the telephone records of mr buonanno's colleague is aimed at preserving the independence of a member of the european parliament and at preventing him from being subject to any kind of pressure or threat. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in view of the worrisome humanitarian emergency that has been affecting europe for some time, last september the eu decided to relocate 160 000 refugees to be distributed among the member states, in an attempt to reduce the pressure on strategic countries such as italy and greece. in the face of this act of solidarity, sweden, after a few months, asked for the suspension of its obligations, citing as a reason the emergency situation that such a large number of citizens would have unleashed in the country. given the importance of collective commitment, i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the latest data confirm that sweden was the union country with the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in 2015, with an increase of applications of 60% compared to 2014. in march, there were more than 170 000 asylum seekers. i have decided to support the keller report on temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden because i think it is important to support the scandinavian country. at a time of extraordinary influx of third country nationals into its territory, sweden is not only the country of first arrival but also the country of final destination. the text voted approves, in particular, the council position allowing the activation of article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523, thus allowing the suspension for one year of the reallocation obligations provided for in council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote contains some unclear passages which i do not entirely agree with. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that sweden, as the country most affected by the migration crisis, should be supported by the institutions of the union and the other member states as a sign of the solidarity that should exist between the members of this union.
in writing. ‒ we believe that sweden, like any other european country, needs to be treated fairly and consistently in the protection of refugees and the management of migration flows. each state must play its part: the challenge facing us today is difficult for any one country, but it is easily met by the union as a whole. the european citizens have the capacity and the resources to overcome the difficulties which this historic moment presents us.
in writing. - i abstained. sweden, after years of being ahead of the curve (by eu standards) in the field of immigrant reception, has changed its policy line (thanks to the success at home of the parties opposing this policy) by deciding to completely reverse the course of the past and therefore complaining about the massive influx of third-country nationals into its territory due to the sudden shift in migratory flows (remember the announcement of the plan to repatriate 80 000 asylum seekers). on 8 december 2015, the swedish government formally requested the suspension of its obligations under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 as it faces the dual challenge of being both a country of first arrival and a country of final destination. sweden has therefore requested relocation and resettlement measures similar to those adopted for italy and greece (although in practice these have proved to be completely useless). there is, however, a fundamental difference between the two mediterranean countries and the scandinavian country, namely geography. we therefore recommend an abstention vote because we understand the swedish demands in terms of numbers, but we cannot support them fully because these numbers are the result of a short-sighted policy in the field of immigration which has been pursued up to now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i think it is right to support sweden in dealing with the difficult emergency situation caused by the sudden influx of third country nationals. sweden was by far the eu country with the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in 2015. the swedish situation has also been further complicated by the significant increase in the number of unaccompanied minors. in march 2016, sweden received 170 104 asylum seekers, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors. the latter have, as is well known, very specific needs, and therefore additional resources are needed to ensure their access to health care, decent housing and education. the swedish case is unique in that the challenge is twofold: the country in question is both the choice for the first arrival and the final destination. the issue of refugees or migrants should not, however, be treated as a purely humanitarian issue: it is a global issue and must be addressed by appropriate means and policies if we are to continue to ensure international stability. there are important threats, risks and fragility, and we must remain vigilant and address these issues in a concrete way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against sweden's request to suspend its obligations under the council decisions of last september on the relocation of 160 000 refugees from italy and greece. the adoption of this proposal would set a dangerous precedent for the operation of the mechanism for the relocation of refugees to the benefit of italy and greece, which is already suffering from serious delays due to the lack of political will on the part of some member states to comply with the obligations assumed in the council.
in writing. ‒ the swedish government's request to the european commission to temporarily suspend the reception of migrants arises from the need for the country to reorganise itself in order to develop measures to cope with the growing and continuing demand for asylum. in 2015, sweden was the country in the union with the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita (11,503 applicants per million inhabitants). in the first quarter of this year alone, it received 170 104 applicants, of whom 73 331 were minors, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors. the request is essentially based on the concrete and real need to find suitable solutions for refugees and to provide facilities and services to offer those who arrive in sweden living conditions equal to those enjoyed by swedish citizens. the high presence of children, especially unaccompanied children, has led to the need to strengthen healthcare, access to education and the provision of decent housing to accommodate particularly vulnerable people. i voted in favour of sweden's request to give a country which has never shied away from its responsibilities in the face of the phenomenon of migration the time to plan reception systems for immigrants and thus guarantee them the best possible living conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the right political message in the face of the increasingly important phenomenon of immigration. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for more operational and financial support. i hope that this vote will also lead to a more cooperative attitude towards the border countries, and in particular my own, which are at the forefront of dealing with immigration and bearing the costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of temporary international protection measures, as sweden is one of the european countries which has made a major contribution to the reception of refugees from third countries. sweden should be given the conditions to ensure a dignified and humane reception of refugees, and a period to reorganise its management of migrants efficiently. i also believe that all european countries should offer their practical help in the reception and management of refugees, while respecting the resettlement policies.
in writing. ‒ sweden has long been confronted with the arrival of large flows of migrants, who often make the country not only a first destination but also their final destination. in 2015, sweden was the member state with the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita (11,503 applicants per million inhabitants). i therefore voted in favour of this resolution to introduce into the proposal for a council decision certain amendments which take account of the specific situation of sweden, in particular the large number of unaccompanied minors, which has specific and undeniable needs in terms of access to education, healthy housing and health care.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that suspending sweden's refugee quota for 12 months would unjustifiably increase the burden of migration in countries such as italy and greece, which are already faced with a serious migration emergency on a daily basis.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on the report because these choices made today by sweden are the result of the wrong immigration policies of the past.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden. the subject is what is happening in the area of migration, where sweden is facing a strong challenge due to the number of people trying to enter. one of the related problems concerns the high rate of unaccompanied minors and the consequent measures to be taken in such cases: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs keller's proposal. in the current migration crisis facing the european union, sweden is among the most affected countries, along with other countries, facing the arrival of large numbers of migrants and unaccompanied minors in need of international protection. on the basis of these considerations, i believe it is appropriate to grant sweden temporary measures in the field of international protection. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ sweden is one of the most proactive member states in protecting refugees and receives a large number of asylum applications. the continuing flow of migrants has put sweden in an emergency situation, making temporary measures necessary to deal with the thousands of asylum seekers. sweden has therefore requested the possibility to be suspended from the obligations under the eu relocation programme for one year only. i voted in favour of this report but i believe that in the light of the deteriorating situation of asylum seekers in italy and greece, and especially in the light of the culpably slow functioning of the relocation system, all member states must respect their commitment to solidarity and responsibility sharing.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises the efforts made by sweden in 2015 in terms of the relocation of people from third countries to its territory. the committee has thus expressed its favourable opinion on the council's proposal to suspend sweden's obligation to take part in the relocation of asylum seekers. in accordance with the guidelines of the committee's work, i voted in favour of the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ cross-border data flows between the eu and the us are the most intensive in the world, representing, among other things, an essential component in trade relations. in this regard, in a judgment of october 2015, the european court of justice ruled that the eu-us negotiations must take into account privacy safeguards, thus fulfilling the requirements of legal certainty. the protection of personal data is a fundamental right, formally recognised in the charter of fundamental rights and the tfeu. the new agreement is in clear contradiction with the court's rulings, and i voted against the motion for a resolution, considering it of paramount importance to ensure respect for privacy and the inviolability of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the european union recognises data protection as one of its fundamental rights, a right enshrined in article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights and reaffirmed in a judgment of the court of justice which defined as an adequate level of protection, in data exchanges with third countries, a level essentially equivalent to that guaranteed by the eu. the joint resolution on the transatlantic data flow, which i supported in parliament today, addresses this issue by stressing the need to conclude negotiations on the eu-us privacy shield by first ensuring legal certainty on how personal data is transferred from the eu to the us. this is an essential element in promoting not only increased consumer confidence but also the development of transatlantic business and international cooperation. the commission should continue its dialogue with the us administration to further improve the privacy shield agreement by overcoming its shortcomings, which have been accurately highlighted by the national data protection authorities. this will make it possible to further strengthen an economic link which is the largest in the world in terms of trade, while maintaining a high level of protection for citizens.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution on transatlantic data transfers appears well structured and uncritical, which is why i wanted to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ personal data entered online must be adequately protected and in any case their use for commercial purposes must be regulated. the handling of this data is of particular importance when it is transferred from the european union to the united states, where different privacy and personal data regulations apply. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the progress that the new privacy shield agreement would bring over the old safe harbour. however, it is highlighted how some remaining gaps in some sensitive areas, such as access by public authorities to data transferred, or the possibility of collecting a quantity of data that may not comply with the criteria laid down in the eu charter of fundamental rights, should be filled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu-us agreements on transatlantic data flows represent a good step forward compared to the discipline of the past but that they need greater protection as regards the protection of the privacy of european citizens' data.
in writing. ‒ the eu-us privacy shield agreement is part of the wider data protection debate, to protect the privacy of european citizens whose personal data is transferred to the us for commercial purposes. we find this joint resolution a good compromise between the ultra-guarantee approach to the right to privacy for eu citizens and the approach that emphasises the need to conclude an agreement in an increasingly fundamental area such as data protection. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the data protection rules of the member states are not uniform and that the data protection rules of the member states are not uniform. this makes it necessary for the shield (now being negotiated between the eu and the us) to provide legal certainty as to how personal data is transferred from the eu to the us. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in this chamber, i have given my favourable vote to the report on transatlantic data flows, statements by the council and the commission, in view of the following assessments: - the new body of rules for transatlantic data flows seems to have met the challenge of ensuring transatlantic protection of personal data and development of business activities; - the strict obligations imposed on companies with regard to the personal data of european citizens and the monitoring of compliance with those obligations must therefore be respected, but the transparency obligations imposed on the united states must be emphasized first and foremost by means of effective appeal procedures; - there is no possibility of effective national 'domestic' control and in the event of any infringement the role of the commission is emphasized, which i hope will not again be awaited by the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ cross-border data flows between the eu and the us are an essential component of trade relations. a ruling of the court of justice of the european union in october 2015 established that the eu-us negotiations must take into account privacy safeguards, thus fulfilling the legal certainty requirements. the protection of personal data is a fundamental right, formally recognised in the charter of fundamental rights and the tfeu. the agreement in question is in clear contradiction with the court's rulings, and i voted against the motion for a resolution, considering it of paramount importance to ensure respect for privacy and the inviolability of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that two principles must be borne in mind in relations with the united states: the first is that it is the most homogeneous market in existence and the largest (in macroeconomic terms, i.e. total income) and therefore increasing trade enables us to expand the market for our products. the second is that the money we make from more trade should not buy our values and our dignity. in view of the explosion of data traffic in recent years, we cannot help but be concerned that both of these stakes are firmly in place: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ given the growth of international online trade, the free flow of data across borders is crucial for eu-us trade and investment. however, it is necessary to ensure the protection of users' privacy by adopting a regulation to protect personal data, ensuring that the fundamental rights of eu data subjects are protected in the transfer of data for the purposes of international trade. i also believe that legal certainty and the existence of clear and uniform rules are essential for the development and growth of enterprises, especially smes.
in writing. ‒ protecting data means protecting people, their right to privacy, security, freedom to freely pursue professional activities. similarly, legal certainty and clear rules on data transfer are essential for the development and growth of enterprises, in particular smes. in this context, transatlantic data flows, which are among the most intensive in the world, and the exchange of personal data are an essential component of the union-us relationship. it is of the utmost importance, in a digital age, which is not just a digital economy, to strengthen trust and security in the exchange of data and to provide businesses, consumers and citizens with legal certainty, based on a sound legal framework, based on equivalent data protection regimes and less vulnerable to criminal use. in this respect, the commission has done important work. it is in the interests of authorities, businesses and citizens, both european and american, to create a legal, consistent and stable regime. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the privacy shield, including the use of the privacy shield framework, and to provide information on the implementation of the privacy shield.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the consolidated relations between the eu and the us are fundamental and essential. the resolution has the merit of encouraging the commission to continue negotiations with the us in order to fill the gaps in the privacy shield. the commission should be able to take into account the specific circumstances of the case, including the circumstances of the individual case, in order to assess whether the protection of personal data is necessary for the protection of the union's interests. the eu commission and the us administration must commit themselves to making this as simple and effective as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report to protect the privacy of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep non-legislative resolution on the transfer of data flows because i shared the need for the commission to continue negotiations with the us to address the shortcomings that have emerged as a result of the privacy shield agreement with regard to the protection of eu citizens' commercial data transferred to the us. the resolution stresses the importance of transatlantic relations, which are essential for partners, and the importance of respect for the right to data protection and confidentiality, as one of the eu's fundamental objectives is the protection of personal data, including when they are transferred to its main trading partner. i have strongly advocated the need to respect eu primary and secondary law and the relevant judgments of the european court of justice. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the draft budget for the european union, and that the council should be given the right to vote on the draft budget for the european union. i hope that this mechanism will be made more easily accessible, effective and above all transparent.
in writing. ‒ cross-border data flows between the us and europe are the most intensive in the world and for this reason the european parliament is closely following the issue of their protection and protection. in this joint resolution, we reiterated that data protection is one of the fundamental rights recognised by the union and welcomed the improvements made by the privacy shield over the safe harbour decision. in particular, we support the inclusion of key definitions such as 'personal data', 'processing' and 'controller', the mechanisms put in place to ensure the monitoring of the privacy shield list, as well as the internal and external compliance checks that have now become mandatory. however, there are shortcomings in this new agreement, notably in terms of public authorities' access to the data transferred, the complexity of the complaints mechanism and the possibility of collecting a disproportionate amount of data. as an additional safeguard, we have asked the commission to carry out appropriate assessments of the privacy shield, particularly in view of the new eu data protection rules that will come into force in two years' time.
in writing. i would like to express my favourable opinion on the proposal for a parliament resolution on transatlantic data flows. the issue of personal data protection is a very important and evolving subject, given the speed with which the electronic market grows and changes. this constant growth has led to an increase in the flow of personal data on the network and, consequently, to the potential risks of misuse of such information. for the most part, this exchange of data is not only carried out within the territorial limits of the european union, but also involves third countries. the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and consumers therefore requires the establishment of a system of cooperation for the protection of privacy. i therefore vote in favour of improving the privacy shield agreement to protect the personal data of our consumers.
in writing. ‒ the european union protects and strengthens the protection of personal data, respect for private life and communications, the right to security, the right to receive and impart information and the right to conduct a business, given the importance of these rights in the light of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. so limits can only be imposed if there are needs which cannot be met in any other way. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the us privacy shield is not a comprehensive and transparent framework for the protection of personal data. i hope that there will be a continuing dialogue between the institutions and the united states to implement the agreement, and i feel that i support the position of my political group.
in writing. ‒ the privacy shield is certainly an improvement on the safe harbour agreement in terms of the protection of personal data, which is recognised as a fundamental right of european citizens by the charter of fundamental rights. cross-border data flows between the us and europe are the most intensive in the world and a key factor in business activities and judicial cooperation. a secure legal framework, simple and efficient compliance procedures are essential for smes, among the most dynamic and fastest growing players in the european economy, which are increasingly dependent on the free flow of data. the new agreement introduces several improvements, in particular the definition of key concepts and the establishment of mandatory and more effective mechanisms and controls. the privacy shield is a framework for the protection of personal data of individuals, including their family members, and their children. the collection of mass data and personal communications of non-us citizens is still in too many cases authorised by us law and therefore the rights of european citizens are still not sufficiently protected. i therefore share the commission's call to continue the dialogue with the us administration to achieve further improvements to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ parliament's resolution on the agreement reached between the european commission and the united states on security, trade information exchange and privacy. this framework agreement was made necessary by the judgment of the european court of justice declaring the previous agreement invalid. the first point of interest in the new agreement concerns the obligation to process personal data properly, since it enforces the requirements laid down by the european court of justice for both parties. secondly, this exchange is particularly beneficial to the sector with the greatest prospects of expansion in the european economy, namely smes, which account for 60% of the union economy. the new agreement is also closer to consumers, as companies benefiting from the agreement will have to comply with the highest standards of personal data protection. the resolution expresses parliament's support for the agreement. i voted in favour of the resolution, along with the epp group, which sponsored it along with four other groups.
in writing. ‒ parliament asked the commission to continue negotiations with the united states to address some of the shortcomings of the privacy shield. the privacy shield confers a leading role on the personal data protection agencies in the eu member states in the examination of data protection requests and the power to suspend data transfers. the commission has also provided information on the number of complaints filed by the european data protection supervisor (edps) and the number of complaints filed by the european data protection supervisor (edps). the commission has also been requested to periodically carry out appropriate assessments of the privacy shield, also in view of the new rules that will come into force in two years' time. i believe that this resolution is very important for the citizens of europe and for their privacy, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the energy 'new deal' strategy envisages an active role for citizens in the european energy market. the new deal is based on consumer protection, better energy information and an efficient energy market. we have also pushed for a clear definition of 'prosumers'. i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal because of the substantial benefits it will bring to the energy market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the griffin report on a new deal for energy consumers. this text effectively illustrates how the current phase of energy transition is leading to an overhaul of the centralised system of energy production which has been predominant up to now. the evolution towards decentralisation, however, brings with it numerous challenges, which require an appropriate response built around two key elements: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, such as the introduction of a new energy policy, the principle of energy efficiency on the one hand, and the building of a true energy union, which protects consumers from abusive practices and at the same time allows citizens to produce, consume, store or trade their own renewable energy. investment in new technologies must be a priority, together with stronger support from the commission for initiatives such as the covenant of mayors, smart cities and communities and 100% res communities. only with a global approach will it be possible to build a more efficient, sustainable and inclusive energy system.
in writing. ‒ although it is partly shared, there are still some strongly critical passages that have convinced me to express myself with a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ consumers will play a central role in the energy union strategy. we must set up a legislative framework which will give value to their contribution and encourage their active role. this resolution, which i supported, highlights how consumers in several european countries still face the burden of switching suppliers. the commission has also been slow to introduce the smart meters, which italy pioneered. one area where progress is certainly needed is in the area of the legibility of bills. with a clear understanding of their consumption and with comprehensible information on tariff bands and plans, consumers will be able to play an increasingly active role in the market. the legislative framework for self-production from renewable sources and the dynamics of grid connection also needs to be developed and harmonised. the legislative proposals which the european commission will present in the coming months will provide an opportunity to act on all these areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the commission's proposal for a 'new deal' for energy consumers contains extremely positive elements that will allow citizens to obtain more sustainable energy at lower prices.
in writing. ‒ the citizens of the european union have been waiting for this piece of legislation for a long time. the european electricity system is undergoing a period of profound change. the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources will increase from 25% today to 50% in 2030. but even in the absence of sun and wind, electricity must still be produced in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of consumers and to keep the electricity grid stable. the electricity market is constantly evolving and the market today is profoundly different from that of a decade ago. we must support all available energy efficiency measures: the new network technologies, measurement systems and smart homes, self-production and storage equipment, which give citizens the opportunity to play an active role in the energy transition, using them to reduce their bills and actively participate in the market. we must enable consumers to make informed choices and to be able to navigate the market's offerings with ease: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report, while containing some shared insights on tackling energy poverty and promoting renewables, is fully functional to the energy union. i am voting against, in line with what the delegation has said in this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that, despite some progress, the objective of the third energy package of establishing a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully achieved. this is demonstrated by the persisting high levels of market concentration, the fact that the decrease in wholesale costs does not translate into a reduction in retail prices, the low number of supplier changes and the low degree of consumer satisfaction. the importance of properly regulated, open, transparent and competitive energy markets should be emphasised in order to keep prices low and improve customer service, giving european citizens greater decision-making power and helping them to avoid energy poverty. i would remind you that the customer has limited choice in relation to distribution networks because of the nature of natural monopolies in the latter. this means that customers cannot change their distribution system operator. therefore, there is a need for appropriate market monitoring of distribution system operators to protect customers from sudden increases in distribution bills, for example by setting a maximum percentage by law for each increase.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the european parliament's position on the strategy to be adopted to address the consumer/citizen dimension in the energy legislation coming next autumn. the aim is to improve the functioning of the energy market so that citizens can directly benefit from it and are encouraged to play an active role in the energy transition in terms of renewable energy production and energy efficiency. a number of requests from the 5 star delegation were accepted, such as the call for a common eu definition of the term 'prosumers' and for measures to stimulate behavioural change for the energy transition. in the light of the positive aspects of the report and the inclusion of the requests made by the five star movement, i voted in favour with great conviction.
in writing. ‒ from the documentation presented to me, i could see how important this report is in terms of energy, energy sustainability and renewable energy sources. i think we need to protect the enormous resources that our world offers us and this always keeping in mind the ultimate goal of achieving an economy based 100% on renewable energy. an economy that gives priority to energy saving to ensure energy security, competitiveness and, above all, lower energy bills for consumers. that is why i voted in favour of this report. to enable individual citizens to play an active role in the energy transition, to produce their own renewable energy and to increase its efficiency. i therefore voted in favour of better development throughout the union, with specific responses to the individual causes of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a new energy management system that benefits consumers in terms of efficiency and accessibility. the energy transition to new renewable energy sources should provide citizens with stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy, as well as high-quality and energy-efficient products, services and buildings. conditions favourable to the achievement of an efficient and competitive internal energy market offering consumers choice as well as clear and transparent access to information need to be developed. i also express the need to adopt energy measures to strengthen the competitiveness of european companies operating or entering the energy market by establishing an effective system for the marketing of energy.
in writing. ‒ the resolution focuses on domestic energy consumers in the context of the energy transition and supports the commission's work to ensure greater affordability. the energy transition is translating into a move away from the traditional centralised energy system to a more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and renewable energy system. i voted in favour because i believe that the interests of present and future generations must be at the heart of the energy union. in particular, i believe that we need a well-functioning, inclusive energy market that generates benefits for citizens, who must be able to play an active role in the transition, produce their own renewable energy and become energy efficient. i support the idea of setting up a one-stop shop in each member state to provide information to enable consumers to make decisions, or that eu funds for energy efficiency and self-production support should be allocated primarily to low-income or energy-poor consumers. only through a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly energy market will it be possible to establish a true energy union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe strongly in the need to create a more equitable energy system for all consumers, while always keeping in mind the protection against energy poverty. in this connection, it seems appropriate to draw up a new agreement which guarantees consumers a reduction in costs through better and more extensive information.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, which, although it contains some shared points on combating energy poverty and promoting renewables, is fully functional for the energy union.
in writing. i welcome the report by mrs griffin: i share the positive view of the energy strategy recently presented by the european commission, it is an ambitious plan which can set the conditions for a framework of high efficiency and innovation in domestic energy consumption. we are in a real energy transition phase, which is translating into a move away from an energy system based on traditional centralised production, towards a more decentralised, efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on a new deal for energy consumers, as i believe that consumers should have more power in the energy market and i share the challenge of energy efficiency, self-generation and other measures for vulnerable citizens in energy poverty. at present, 50 million european citizens are living in conditions of energy poverty. many of them are forced into contracts that often require them to pay a hefty penalty when switching to a cheaper supplier. the abolition of these penalties is just one of the most significant requests to the commission in view of the legislative proposals to be presented in september. further requests are aimed at introducing new business models, such as collective purchasing systems and innovative financial instruments that promote self-production, self-consumption and energy efficiency measures; the promotion of community/cooperative energy systems; clear prices and comparable tariffs. combating energy poverty cases where people are unable to affordably heat or use electricity in their homes must be tackled at the root, through the introduction of 'social tariffs' for low-income and vulnerable citizens.
in writing. the present project is based on the implementation of a 'new deal' for energy consumers. with this report we want to create a new structure for the electricity market, one which will strengthen the role of energy consumers, but above all, one which will be oriented towards a flexible system based on renewable sources. the objective of the third energy package, which is to focus on a competitive retail market and consumers, has not yet been achieved, and for that very reason we are making a number of concrete recommendations. among them, it is intended to guide consumers to take into account the property of the energy transition, according to which producing their own energy would bring enormous benefits, including a reduction in energy consumption. i believe that the solution proposed is beneficial both for consumers, who will be able to manage their consumption from an economic point of view, and for contributing to the overall reduction of energy consumption. i therefore support mrs griffin's report.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the european parliament resolution on a new deal for energy consumers. the report aims to achieve an economy based on 100% renewable energy, which can be achieved by prioritising energy savings and ensuring energy security, competitiveness and lower energy bills for consumers. it is essential to introduce measures to provide citizens with affordable and sustainable energy and high-quality and energy-efficient services, creating favourable conditions for the achievement of an efficient internal energy market that offers consumers choice as well as transparent access to information. ensuring strictly the full implementation of the third energy package is a priority of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on a new deal for energy consumers. within the framework of the energy union, a vast and ambitious project which aims to create a single energy market within the european union, thus fostering free competition and discouraging the creation of oligopolies, this report provides a new angle to the debate on the energy market, namely that of consumers, who should be the first beneficiaries of the benefits envisaged by the project. the creation of an inclusive energy system, where consumers can contribute to the market by producing energy domestically and public actors can improve energy poverty situations, must be one of the priorities of this commission. the energy union must put consumers and their needs at the centre. in this respect, it is necessary to work towards eliminating unfair practices by energy suppliers, which contribute to the maintenance of artificially high position rents and prices. the report also calls for the european commission to focus its efforts on creating a fairer and more competitive market, where it is easy to compare prices and to have access to services of the highest quality and at the lowest cost.
in writing. ‒ the european union is committed to achieving, through the reduction of energy consumption, an economy based on 100% renewable energy in line with the text adopted in paris, which limits the temperature increase to 1.5°c. in order to achieve these objectives, an efficient internal market is needed to enable citizens to benefit from affordable, transparent and sustainable energy. i therefore believe that the proposals in the document under discussion represent an excellent starting point for the construction of a productive energy market. so i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ more than 50 million european citizens live in a state of energy poverty. the eu, with its strategy for a european energy union, must tackle this problem by fostering a transition to a sustainable model that puts people at the centre. consumers, especially the most vulnerable, should reap the greatest benefits from this transition. this can be achieved by making invoices more transparent, allowing consumers to know and control their actual energy use, and developing micro-production by the users themselves. public funds must be invested in innovative projects to build quality homes, with better energy efficiency, lower energy costs and improved living conditions. innovative companies developing increasingly energy-efficient technologies and materials should also be supported. energy policy must take social aspects into account and contribute to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. millions of citizens are held hostage to outdated contracts, without adequate information about cheaper rates, forced to pay hefty penalties when they decide to switch to another provider. this is unacceptable. the report calls for an end to this situation and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ currently, 50 million european citizens are living in conditions of energy poverty. this means that in some cases, some people are not even able to have heating or electricity in their homes at affordable prices. for this reason, this resolution on the 'new deal' for energy consumers supports collective purchasing systems, household energy production, better price comparison tools and the ability for consumers to switch suppliers more easily and to choose the most favourable tariffs. i am convinced that through the targeted use of community funds efficiency could be promoted and energy poverty tackled. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the need to move from a rigid and highly centralised energy system to a more decentralised, flexible, renewable-based system that gives consumers a new role so that they can also become producers. while there is no doubt that the consumer must be at the centre of european energy policy, it is nevertheless necessary to leave the possibility for companies to operate in the market, to offer a good service and to be able to invest in innovation. i also helped to introduce some amendments to the original text in order to avoid a proliferation of data and information in the bill which would not promote transparency for the consumer but would only increase confusion and bureaucratic costs. although not all the amendments were included in the final compromise, i voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ today, 50 million europeans live in a situation of energy poverty: have outdated contracts, also known as 'delayed' contracts, which often require payment of a significant penalty upon switching to another supplier. this resolution stresses the need to create favourable conditions for the creation of an efficient and competitive internal energy market, which gives consumers the possibility of choosing the most convenient carrier and of having clear and transparent access to information on their consumption and billing. parliament suggested that it should be easier for consumers to switch energy suppliers and that tariffs should be more transparent, comparable and clear. it is important that there is a properly regulated, open, transparent and competitive energy market in the eu. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on its guidance to the european commission on how the consumer/citizen dimension should be included and addressed in the energy legislation coming in the autumn. the report by parliament substantially improves on the eu commission's already good communication and succeeds in enhancing the role of citizens in the wider energy transition towards a decentralised model of energy production based on renewables. much attention is given to the phenomenon of energy poverty and its possible solutions. the report reflects most of the requests and, in particular, the m5s's request for a legal definition at eu level of prosumers (energy consumers-producers), which is still missing, was passed by a large majority. that is why we voted in favour of the report. the amendment (signed by all five stars and about 100 other colleagues of various nationalities) calling for renewable energy produced by prosumers to be considered a common good failed to pass with only 47 votes out of 650. we almost hoped. but even this result can be considered surprising in a parliament like this, which is extremely conservative and blatantly bent on maintaining the status quo.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which i have endorsed, is intended to guide the commission in considering consumer/citizen needs in the energy legislation coming in the autumn. at present, 50 million european citizens are living in conditions of energy poverty. many citizens are tied to outdated contracts which often require them to pay a hefty penalty when switching to a cheaper supplier. we in m5s want energy companies to provide consumers with clear information about the most cost-effective tariffs and to eliminate penalties for switching suppliers. we believe that energy poverty - the cases where people are unable to affordably heat or use electricity in their homes - must be tackled at its root. we asked the commission to consider eu funds to promote energy efficiency, self-generation and other measures for vulnerable citizens in energy poverty. together with my colleagues we have tabled amendments, supported by the intergroup on common goods and public services, which recognise that energy in the energy transition is to be considered a common good. in 2016, no one in europe should have to choose between heating and food.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the proportion of women in or at risk of poverty is undoubtedly linked to the difficulties they face in their daily work and social inclusion. not only is the employment rate for women lower than that for men, but there are also considerable differences in pay and, consequently, in pensioners. this is why, in conjunction with the family leave strategy, the eu should develop legislation to ensure equal opportunities in employment, education and pay, regardless of gender. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the latest data from eurostat confirm the existence of an alarming phenomenon: in the eu, 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men live in poverty. this serious situation of deprivation, which affects over 100 million european citizens, affects women more than ever. the arena report, which i support, tackles the problem of poverty from a gender perspective and highlights the crucial role of high-quality public services in tackling poverty. it is precisely in the lack of high quality and affordable care services, such as day care, nurseries and long-term care facilities, that some of the factors contributing to social exclusion, the gender gap in employment, pay and pensions can be identified. the commission and the member states must commit themselves to implementing broad-based policies aimed at strengthening education and ensuring lifelong learning. access to credit must be improved and, above all, women's employment and the integration of socially marginalized groups of women into the labour market must be promoted, also through better use of the esf and the efsi.
in writing. ‒ the arena report is unbalanced and contains elements which i consider to be highly demagogic and self-serving. for these reasons i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the impact of the economic crisis on european citizens, it should be noted that 122 million people in europe are at risk of poverty, of which 65 million are women, with a particularly worrying situation for single mothers. the situation in the various member states still varies considerably. the resolution i supported lists several areas where a more uniform european standard should be reached. starting with ensuring access to health care, to increasing investment in social infrastructure such as childcare, to a more equitable sharing of the family burden between men and women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that women are in a more difficult position than their male counterparts and that this makes them more vulnerable to the risk of falling below the poverty line. i therefore believe that it is essential that the eu should work to make social rights as broad as possible, taking into account the specific needs of women.
in writing. ‒ despite the european parliament's strong focus on the issue of women's poverty and social exclusion in recent years, we are still facing an intolerable situation in 2016 with a global preponderance of women in economic difficulties and social exclusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and that the rights of men and women are protected. this is a phenomenon which is often underestimated and which must be dealt with in a timely manner. in this respect, the current austerity policies are playing a key negative role, encouraging the privatisation of public care and contributing to the increased burden on women in relation to the care of their own family members. in order to respond to this problem, in addition to promoting new public investment in the welfare sector, i believe that it is appropriate to give priority to the use of existing european funds, including the european social fund, to improve the training of european women in economic difficulties, while encouraging the poverty protection measures reserved for them.
in writing. ‒ an instrumental, demagogic report which is on a par with other reports already voted. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on poverty: a gender perspective because poverty is increasingly a female issue and the economic crisis and austerity policies are only exacerbating this gender gap. the number of women living in poverty appears to be consistently higher than that of men. in the light of the objectives we have set ourselves, see the europe 2020 strategy, it is necessary and no longer advisable to delay the commission and the member states in implementing policies that promote the employment of women and the integration into the labour market of socially marginalised categories of women. it is worth reiterating that gender equality, especially in the labour market, contributes to increasing social and economic well-being and benefits not only women but also the economy and society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which deals with the problem of poverty with particular reference to the social exclusion of women. it is acknowledged that women are the gender category most affected by economic hardship. the report also refers to the wide pay and pension gap between men and women in europe and calls on the member states and the european union to make further efforts to ensure equal opportunities in employment, social protection, pay, education, childhood and culture.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on the poverty situation of women in the countries of the european union highlights a problem that is unfortunately still persistent in european societies where, despite more than 50 years of gender equality policies, disparities in terms of employment and poverty remain very high. women, although a key force in the economic and social development of european countries, are more exposed to the risk of poverty than men. the causes are many and mainly concern the persistence of gender prejudices which are deeply rooted in the cultural fabric of the countries of the union. this contributes to relegating women to a secondary role in society and, consequently, to the feminization of poverty. member states should therefore encourage the development of policies to increase female employment, promote work-life balance and ensure support for the care and education of children in disadvantaged settings. and there is a need for greater use of the political and financial instruments already available to promote family support services so as to encourage women to enter, and remain, in the labour market. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the crisis we are experiencing, and which we are trying very hard to overcome, is, in my view, a subject on which the european parliament must give effective and concrete answers. i felt equally obliged to abstain from voting on this report because it has been used by certain political groups as a pretext for debating matters which have in fact contaminated its contents. i found it a pretext to want to discuss sensitive topics together, such as the economic crisis and gender differences, especially trying to shift the focus to the transgender and lgbt categories. it is not the place for me, nor is it the right way to do politics. every subject, especially sensitive ones, has its own space for argumentation to enable anyone to be properly informed and to be able to express his political opinion in complete freedom. it is for these reasons that i have decided to abstain, because i believe that such important and socially relevant matters must be dealt with in the right way, with full respect for those in the european union who invest their hopes, energies and resources.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis from which europe is gradually emerging has led to an increase in the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. women are among the most vulnerable groups, and the european union is working to promote their role as potential growth and competitiveness in the labour market. education plays a key role in developing the skills and abilities needed to enter and remain in the labour market, and also helps to counter gender attitudes and stereotypes.
in writing. ‒ the fact that women are more affected by poverty than men is evident in all member states, as is the greater impact of poverty on the lives of women and their children. the economic recession has further exacerbated existing inequalities for women and single-parent households, the majority of which (56.6% in 2014) are female. in addition, women are excluded from the labour market or stop work to take care of children and the elderly to a greater extent than men. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that ensuring gender equality at all levels is the only way to break the cycle of poverty, and above all to make poverty a feminized phenomenon. i am convinced that it is not simply a matter of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but above all of becoming aware that economic and social development cannot exclude women as an active and integral part of all societies. protecting gender equality has a positive impact on economic growth and the harmonious development of future generations. a first step in this direction is to focus on the role of education in combating gender stereotypes.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, despite some important and shareable points, too much attention is paid to lgbt categories and it is demanded that immigrant women have free access to many services.
in writing. ‒ i would like to offer my support to the excellent work of my colleague maria arena, whose report 'on women's poverty: a gender perspective' has so clearly highlighted the many fragility and obstacles that women still face in their professional and social careers, and which has given me the opportunity to reiterate my full support for the eu's commitment to new strategies that help women to achieve equal rights, recognition and opportunities both at work and in terms of participation and social inclusion. eurostat data shows alarming numbers of citizens living in poverty: 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men: the economic recession, precarious contracts, the lack of sufficient guarantees for working mothers to be able to reconcile family and professional life, the wage gap and the gender pension gap expose women to an unacceptable risk of poverty and social alienation. the hope is that, with the constant pressure we intend to continue to exert through our work in the european parliament, the union will once again be the guarantor of the rights of the individual and of women and, in a broader sense, also of the rights of children and of the family. of growth and our future.
in writing. ‒ i voted with conviction in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on poverty and its gender perspective, as i believe that women are more vulnerable and more in need of support and attention from the institutions at all levels. it is clear that in this historical period, when the european economy is still struggling to recover, economic difficulties affect people at risk of poverty more than anyone else, and that women in particular are more likely to suffer the consequences, especially if they are single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or disabled people. analysis of numerous studies on the relationship between gender and poverty has shown that austerity policies have a dramatic impact on the social and economic lives of women, with a strong impact on their children and subsequent generations. i share the rapporteur's concern about the persistent disparities faced by women and support the need for the european union and the member states to make a greater commitment to investing in social infrastructure, ensuring equal opportunities and equal access to employment, social protection, education and pay for all.
in writing. ‒ almost 65 million women live in poverty in europe, a number that is unfortunately growing and far exceeds that of men. with this resolution we want to put the issue back at the centre of our political agenda, making a strong appeal to the commission and the member states to pursue strategies to eradicate gender poverty. but the fight against poverty must go hand in hand with the fight against social exclusion, of which women are increasingly victims, especially if they are mothers, single women, pensioners, immigrants or disabled people. for these socially marginalized groups of women, we call for urgent measures in the field of education and lifelong learning, which enable women to acquire the skills necessary to access high-quality jobs, but also to retrain in a constantly changing labour market. we urge member states to do more to reconcile women's private and professional lives by introducing flexible and adaptable working arrangements. it is unacceptable that women's jobs are still characterized by precariousness, low pay and atypical employment contracts.
in writing. among the various fundamental principles of our union is the promotion of equal rights between men and women. in this connection, the european parliament proposes a series of decisive measures to combat poverty, particularly gender poverty. the report focuses on the causes of poverty and highlights the efforts member states must make to ensure that women receive equal opportunities in employment, education, social and pay, without any discrimination. this is a very sensitive subject for us and for this reason various amendments were discussed to improve the text, given the importance of the subject of poverty, which is addressed from a gender perspective.
in writing. ‒ it has been found that poverty has a greater impact on women than on men; in fact, it is estimated that some 64.6 million women live in poverty compared with 57.6 million men. it is also worrying that poverty is followed by social exclusion which affects the whole family unit. the economic crisis has widened the gap and the gender gap is causing serious economic damage. i believe that the european union must change its guidelines as soon as possible in line with the project in question. however, i do not feel that i fully support the proposal under consideration and therefore i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the number of women living in poverty is consistently higher than that of men. in europe, 64.6 million women are living in poverty, compared with 57.6 million men. single women, single mothers and migrants are particularly vulnerable. the main causes of female poverty are lower wages and pensions for female workers compared to male colleagues, the persistence of gender stereotypes and the lack of quality public services. women are the first victims of austerity policies, which reproduce the cycle of poverty in the next generation. europe cannot remain indifferent to these problems which seriously affect millions of women and children in europe. the arena report calls on the european institutions to take a whole range of initiatives to deal with this situation. the use of european funds to invest in social childcare facilities; measures to ensure a better work-life balance; a 'european child guarantee' ensuring decent health care, education and housing for every child in europe. finally, to break the vicious circle of poverty, it is essential to promote the continued participation of women in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report which tackles the issue of gender poverty. indeed, according to eurostat, more women than men live in poverty. the problem is particularly acute for single mothers, pensioners, immigrants or disabled people. austerity, the large gender pay gap and the economic crisis have increased inequalities, affecting women in particular, excluding them increasingly from the labour market, social life, justice, health care services, decent housing and food, water, energy and education. while it is proven that gender equality in the labour market, achieved by increasing social and economic well-being, benefits women, the economy and society as a whole. the report therefore calls on the european union to make further efforts to ensure equal opportunities in employment, social protection, pay, education, childhood and culture. the proposals include the launch of a comprehensive legislative initiative to guarantee maternity and paternity leave, improving access to credit, counselling and financial services for women, reviewing macroeconomic, social and labour market policies, and calling for the ratification of the istanbul convention.
in writing. ‒ the report we adopted today tackles the problem of poverty by taking particular account of the social exclusion of women, who are on average more and more affected than men. this is particularly true for single mothers, pensioners, immigrants and disabled people. women are overrepresented in precarious work, career breaks, women-friendly occupations (care for the sick, cleaning, etc.) and parttime jobs. another problem that emerges from the report is that there is a large pay gap between women and men in europe, which also translates into a gap in pensions, with a serious difficulty in combining work and private life. the european union and the member states are therefore called upon to make further efforts to ensure equal opportunities in employment, social protection, pay, education, childhood and culture.
in writing. ‒ many rules and laws, in the context of international trade, can be a burden for exporting companies (so-called non-tariff barriers). on the other hand, however, they represent a protection of fundamental rights (health, environment and labour) in individual states. the report aims at the elimination of non-tariff barriers and hence of all the protections deriving from them. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the single market is an important element of the european union, a process which began some 50 years ago with the elimination of tariff barriers but which continues today, albeit hampered by the persistence of non-tariff barriers which prevent its full potential from being exploited. the dalton report, which i have supported, stresses the need to ensure better and more consistent application of existing rules, abandoning ever more protectionist measures and opening up national markets more fully. in the present context, the commission has the task of presenting a comprehensive picture of the obstacles to the single market, an analysis of the means to overcome them and, above all, an overall plan to overcome them. it is in the constant presence of disproportionate and often discriminatory regulatory interventions that all those costs must be identified which, in addition to generating disadvantages for the most competitive and innovative companies, cause inconvenience to consumers which translate into less choice and higher prices. it must be one of the union's priorities to make the most of the single market, enhancing europe's competitiveness on the world stage.
in writing. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the single market is the greatest achievement of european integration and that its completion should be one of the main objectives of the union and its institutions. i therefore believe that it is essential to eliminate those non-tariff barriers which are not strictly necessary or inherent in the system in order to allow all european businesses, especially smes, to operate smoothly throughout the single market.
in writing. ‒ since its establishment in 1993, the european single market has been one of the main drivers of the european integration project, fostering the deepening of relations between the different member states and ensuring significant economic development capable of significantly increasing employment, while improving the well-being of european citizens. since then, despite the progress made, the presence of a number of unjustified non-tariff barriers, particularly in the services sector, has hindered the full completion of the services sector, resulting in unfair discrimination and significant economic disadvantages for businesses and consumers. i therefore call on the commission to re-launch the analysis of the existing unjustified non-tariff barriers with a view to drawing up a comprehensive strategy which will finally be able to solve these problems, and to monitor more closely the effective compliance by the member states with the existing rules in this particular area. finally, while the completion of the single market can indeed be a great opportunity for economic development, particular care must be taken not to jeopardize, in the context of the removal of existing unjustified non-tariff barriers, the rules established with a view to protecting consumers and the environment, which must be safeguarded and even strengthened.
in writing. - i vote against it. the vote on the dalton report is absolutely negative and confirms the negative impression our group has of a certain orientation of the work of the committee on the internal market. the eu too often sees national and regional rules as barriers to the free movement of goods within the eu, whereas the aim is to protect the environment, labour and consumer health. in general, these are rules which are intended to protect our production system and which clash with the needs of multinationals and their project of standardizing all diversity within the european union. the dalton report, on the other hand, is a continuous critical reference to the legislative activity of the member states and it is surprising that it should be made by a british conservative. the text does not, of course, emphasize how much the pro-eu single market rules are creating a real increase in social dumping within the union. in short, in our view, the failures of the eu's single market were not caused by alleged 'non-tariff barriers' raised by member states and regions, but by excessive regulatory activity (even in detail) which, without respecting the principle of subsidiarity, complicates the life of the national legislator and the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the single market makes a significant contribution to the economies of european countries. the effects of non-tariff barriers on the single market result in increased market segmentation, reducing competition and efficiency for european businesses and preventing full exploitation of economies of scale. the free movement of goods and services continues to be hampered by unjustified national technical standards and inappropriate regulatory requirements. in order to strengthen the single market and provide a concrete solution to non-tariff barriers, action is needed at both union and member state level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the unrealised potential of the single market is significant; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the data. at present, consumers are the main victims of unjustified non-tariff barriers, which impose high costs on them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling on the european commission to present a comprehensive picture of non-tariff barriers in the single market taking into account the difference between a non-tariff barrier and a legitimate public policy objective by a member state. it is true that embargoes, import quotas, licences and quantitative restrictions make it difficult and particularly costly for foreign producers to implement or comply with national rules. however, these obstacles also constitute rules and laws designed to protect employment, health and the environment and the assessment of the legitimacy of the public policy objective by a member state cannot in my view be left to the discretion of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the elimination of tariff barriers across the union has made it possible to create a single european market over the last fifty years. but to extend and deepen this process, the non-tariff barriers still existing in the member states must also be removed. these are often technical or administrative rules which discourage companies from entering new european markets. the resolution, which i think i voted in favour of, therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the member states respect the community acquis of the internal market and abandon protectionist measures in order to open up their national markets. the persistence of non-tariff barriers has so far prevented the full potential of the single market from being exploited. i therefore hope that the barriers, which are not based on a legitimate public policy objective, will soon be removed. i also believe that the elimination of non-tariff barriers will help to bring about the full realization of the european single market, which will benefit the most competitive businesses but above all consumers who could benefit from lower prices and greater choice.
in writing. ‒ despite continuous efforts to build a strong and efficient single market, a commercial enterprise today has to decide whether to operate nationally or internationally. this is because the variety of national regulations faced by the undertaking in question create a number of difficulties which hamper trade within the european union, difficulties not unlike those encountered by an undertaking trading outside the union. this is unacceptable in my view. the single market was set up to facilitate trade within the union in such a way as to create a prosperous common space. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal, to combat the non-tariff barriers which are in fact preventing the full potential of the single market from being exploited. i also support a change of mindset on the part of individual member states to open up their national markets more fully. it is clear to me that a single market makes the member states themselves more competitive and open to trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it supports the elimination of non-tariff barriers as a necessary step towards the creation of the single market. despite the abolition of tariffs, the variety of national regulations faced by firms wishing to carry on their activities or provide services in another member state presents numerous obstacles to the full exploitation of the single market. the achievement of the european single market requires better and more consistent enforcement of existing rules and the gradual abandonment of national protectionist measures, opening up national markets more fully. the completion of the european single market will benefit consumers and businesses, and help to increase the competitiveness of the economies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ achieving the single market was a significant achievement. however, non-tariff barriers still persist which prevent a truly adequate single market for consumers and businesses. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the common agricultural policy. the first step is to identify technical barriers to trade. a typical example is the lack of mutual recognition of goods tests or professional qualifications is a key example. there is no need for new regulations. a change in the mindset of the member states is needed, so that they apply the rules of the single market in a truly transparent and comprehensive way (not protectionist or protectionist). we need cooperation and common sense among the member states. it is not by protecting market niches that we safeguard enterprises and excellence. in a truly globalised world, it is the task of the institutions to create the conditions for competition in a large and competitive market. only by abandoning fears and selfishness will we be able to guarantee a future for the european productive fabric, which, on the contrary, will remain entangled in a thousand strings that will suffocate it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the elimination of non-tariff barriers can bring enormous benefits to both businesses and final consumers. in fact, despite the abolition of tariffs, the variety of national regulations faced by an undertaking wishing to carry out its activities across borders or to provide services in another member state poses obstacles not dissimilar to those which may be encountered when trading outside the eu. this is not to say that the single market is not effective or that it is not today one of the main determinants of european prosperity, but rather that the persistence of non-tariff barriers prevents the full potential of the single market from being exploited.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i believe that some non-tariff barriers are still useful in safeguarding our production system, our environment and our consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the removal of barriers to trade in the eu because i believe that the creation of the single market is a significant achievement, made possible by cooperation and a shared objective but also by the removal of barriers to trade. tariff barriers were successfully removed almost 50 years ago, but the challenge of eliminating non-tariff barriers remains. tariffs are more easily removed, but the ultimate objective is the elimination of non-tariff barriers. in addition, the variety of national regulations faced by an undertaking wishing to carry out crossborder activity or provide services in another member state poses obstacles not dissimilar to those encountered when trading outside the eu. the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the eu, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed by the study prepared for the imco committee which notes that the completion of the single market benefits the most competitive and innovative firms and consumers through lower prices and greater choice. it is therefore in the interest of all member states and the ep to eliminate non-tariff barriers.
in writing. the creation of the single market has contributed to significant results, thanks to cooperation and a shared objective: the removal of barriers to trade throughout the european union. tariff barriers have been successfully removed, but it is the continuing challenge of eliminating non-tariff barriers that is driving today's single market initiatives; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. many businesses and citizens who wish to engage in crossborder trade or business do not consider whether to operate at national, single market or non-eu level, but are faced with a choice between domestic and international trade. that is why we are calling for a single market strategy, which will remove all obstacles to trade for all those who wish to do so, and that is why i support mr dalton's report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on non-tariff barriers in the single market. this market, which is one of the priorities of the european union, with the free movement of goods, services, public procurement, the digital economy and benefits for consumers, makes a major contribution to european economies and therefore needs to be completed. one of the main problems is the persistence of non-tariff barriers, such as unjustified national technical standards or unjustified regulatory requirements applied to products, which impede the full realisation of a market which represents some 70% of the european economy, to the detriment above all of consumers who are faced with suboptimal choices of products and goods as well as more expensive services. as europe is based on a highly competitive social market economy, swift and ambitious action is needed to remove these unjustified non-tariff barriers to the benefit of european businesses and, above all, consumers.
in writing. ‒ given the persistence of unjustified non-tariff barriers in the single market, we vote in favour of the dalton report. the effective completion of the single market, through structural reforms that ensure the elimination of the persistent fragmentation of individual economies and, in particular, promote regulatory harmonisation for trade in services, public procurement and the digital economy, would provide a quantitative stimulus to the european economy of between eur 651 and 1 100 billion, corresponding to between 5% and 8.36% of european gdp. the figures thus point to the way and the need for further integration of community markets capable of stimulating economic recovery and, above all, employment levels which are a source of great concern and represent a social scourge not to be underestimated. small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of europe's socioeconomic fabric, and the industrial sectors focused on the digital economy and innovation, the engine of technological development and the essential stimulus for research, are the sectors most exposed and hampered by the persistence of non-tariff barriers. without prejudice to the right of governments to legislate in the common interest, for example in the field of consumer protection or environmental protection, non-tariff barriers constitute a serious discriminatory element.
in writing. ‒ the elimination of barriers to trade throughout the european union is the objective that member states; the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide a financial contribution to the development of the internal market. for example, the variety of national legislation in the member states creates obstacles similar to those which would arise if the legislation of a non-eu country were to be considered. i believe that the economic damage caused by the persistence of certain non-tariff barriers with their consequent impact on consumers must be counteracted, and i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ removing the remaining obstacles to the completion of the single market is of paramount importance given the stimulus to european economic growth that a fully realised single market can provide. the report extends the concept of 'non-tariff barriers', used for external trade, to the remaining obstacles restricting intra-european trade. thanks to the work of the s&d group in the imco committee, we have been able to reach a balanced definition of 'non-tariff barriers' relating to the internal market. this category includes all unjustified obstacles created by member states to protect national firms from european competition. however, the right of member states to legislate in the public interest and to adopt progressive legislation, providing for greater protections in the case of minimum harmonisation directives, is clearly recognised. in addition, the importance of public services and the fact that the legislation on public services does not constitute a non-tariff barrier are explicitly stated. if incorrect or incomplete application of existing european rules still restricts intra-european trade and constitutes a barrier to growth, a clear distinction should be made between non-tariff barriers and other rules, both european and those of the member states, which are entirely legitimate because they serve the public interest.
in writing. ‒ despite the abolition of customs tariffs almost 50 years ago, the variety of national regulations faced by a company wishing to operate across borders poses obstacles not unlike those encountered when trading outside the eu. non-tariff barriers still exist which prevent the full potential of the single market from being exploited. for example, non-tariff barriers that are contrary to the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination or that are not based on a legitimate public policy objective still exist. i therefore believe that better and more consistent application of existing rules and a change of mind by the member states would help to abandon protectionist measures and open up national markets more fully. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report presented is concerned with a particularly important issue in the effective implementation of the single market, namely the so-called 'non-tariff barriers'. the compromise reached with the text of this report is in keeping with the epp's intention to present a strong and ambitious opinion to the commission on the subject. it is of particular importance that a clear definition of these non-tariff barriers is provided: this includes rules which impose additional costs or disadvantages on enterprises entering the single market compared to those already operating there, and at the same time it indicates the rules in force in the member states which impose disadvantages on foreign players within the single market compared to national players. i voted with the ppe group in favour of the compromise reached in this own-initiative report, which seeks to ask the commission to apply the rules which constitute the single market in a clear and uniform manner so as to promote its fullest implementation.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that the completion of the single market for the free movement of goods, services, public procurement, digital economy could bring economic benefits of between €651 billion and €1.1 trillion per year, equivalent to between 5% and 8.63% of the eu's gdp. i have therefore advocated the abolition of non-tariff barriers (embargoes, import quotas, quantitative restrictions, licences) in view of the important economic benefits not only for businesses but also for citizens themselves.
in writing. ‒ the report we voted on today deals with the issue of non-tariff barriers within the union. non-tariff barriers are embargoes, import quotas, licences, quantitative restrictions, technical and standard barriers which make it difficult and particularly costly for foreign producers to implement or comply with national rules. but on the other hand they also represent the rules and laws that protect employment, health and the environment within the individual states. a set of safeguards which is being seriously challenged by the negotiations with the united states on the transatlantic partnership. i therefore found it difficult to support a report which seeks to eliminate non-tariff barriers, despite the fact that the principles set out by the rapporteur are balanced and largely acceptable. the draft report calls on the commission to present a comprehensive picture of non-tariff barriers in the single market, taking into account the difference between a non-tariff barrier and a legitimate public policy objective by a member state. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. perhaps the same commission which is negotiating the elimination of non-tariff barriers with the united states under the ttip.
in writing. the report addresses the issue of non-tariff barriers within the european union. non-tariff barriers are embargoes, import quotas, licences, quantitative restrictions, technical and standard barriers which make it difficult and particularly costly for foreign producers to implement or comply with national rules. on the other hand, they also represent the rules and laws that protect employment, health and the environment within individual states. the european union has a duty to protect the environment and to protect the environment. the draft report calls on the european commission to present a comprehensive picture of non-tariff barriers in the single market, taking into account the difference between a non-tariff barrier and a legitimate public policy objective by a member state. a request that i find to be shared but which remains a fundamental doubt not a small one: who will assess whether a member state's public policy objective is legitimate? the same european commission that is negotiating the elimination of non-tariff barriers with the united states in the context of ttip? in view of the dangers arising from the removal of certain non-tariff barriers, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the reforms for the european single market, we have reached a compromise on the so-called sharing economy, whereby the commission will be responsible for coordinating the action of the various member states on an issue essential for the future of our economies. in addition, specific rules have been introduced to protect the geographical indications of products, including those for non-food products. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the single market, a central element of european integration, is a constant challenge from an economic point of view; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. my vote in favour of the commit tee's report is motivated by our shared shared opportunities and challenges in implementing it. the text presented supports the strategy proposed by the commission, recognising its potential in terms of increasing competitiveness, increasing prosperity and employment. the commission is asked to support smes and start-ups, the backbone of the continent's economy, without lowering the level of rules on the protection of workers and consumers. reducing administrative burdens and adjustment costs, simplifying legislation and coordinating taxation within the union, especially in the field of vat, are the measures to be taken to move in the right direction. only by taking these measures will the single market be achieved and a genuine, highly competitive social market economy based on sustainable growth and consumer protection be created.
in writing. ‒ the single market is an indispensable source of growth, employment and integration opportunities for european businesses and citizens alike. however, to realise its full potential and benefits, greater joint efforts are needed to continue the implementation of the single market in areas where it is still incomplete and to remove obstacles to its full and proper functioning in the remaining areas. i supported the resolution adopted today because it aims to strengthen the single market and, in particular, to strengthen an increasingly modern and competitive single market, capable of offering favourable conditions, especially for smes and start-ups investing in innovation, by facilitating access to finance for these companies, allowing them to expand their activities and thus increase their competitiveness. in this, as in other areas, it is therefore essential to develop more harmonised, transparent and quality legislation, without this creating additional administrative burdens. furthermore, greater harmonisation at the regulatory level does not mean abandoning high standards or consumer protection instruments such as the indication of the country of origin of products, the importance of which we have stressed in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the single market is the greatest achievement of european integration and that its completion must be one of the main objectives of the union and its institutions and that it is necessary to continue on the path taken by the commission towards a market modernisation that will allow european businesses and economies to remain competitive on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ the future and gradual completion of the european single market is a key priority, capable of significantly improving the lives of european consumers and businesses, which must be strongly supported. only by adopting common and shared rules and regulations can we support balanced economic development which respects the environment and which can more effectively and calmly meet the major challenges we face, such as rising unemployment and the gradual weakening of our entrepreneurial fabric. the new commission strategy is an interesting additional instrument to encourage this process, particularly in view of the completion of the single market. in particular, of all the proposals contained in the package, i appreciate and encourage the desire to promote the development and a suitable common regulatory framework for new economic models such as the collaborative economy, or the development of more appropriate rules for the benefit of greater protection of european consumers. among these, i would like to emphasize my strong support for the amendment (paragraph 82) proposed by mr comi, which promotes the mandatory indication of the origin of products (the so-called 'made in'), a proposal which can provide consumers with more tools to protect the quality of their purchases and their safety.
in writing. ‒ if it were not for paragraph 82, the indication would simply and quickly be for a negative vote. too many references are heavily critical of member states 'guilty' of not applying eu directives and regulations; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to impose sanctions on the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the services directive is fully implemented. too weak if not absent in the text are references which explain in an objective way that alleged 'barriers to the internal market' introduced by the member states are in fact caused by european law unsuitable for transposition into national and regional systems. of course, we are not convinced by the enthusiastic and ideological references to an eu internal market. this is an important issue for italian and padanian interests. it is true that the rapporteur has succeeded in inserting into the text a reference to 'made in' which, although generic, is a significant element. of course, it would be better to talk about "made in" type of compulsory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. the single market is the engine of sustainable growth and employment and is the cornerstone of the european integration process. enhancing its functioning means creating new opportunities for citizens and businesses alike. an effective strategy must focus on aspects that are primarily aimed at helping smes and start-ups. tax coordination between eu countries should be facilitated and national vat rules should be harmonised. in recent years the landscape has changed radically. the challenges to be faced are increasingly complex and have a significant impact on the internal market (considering on the one hand the persistent rate of unemployment, especially among young people, and on the other the sensitive and current problem of immigration). the complementarity of the single market with other horizontal policy areas, in particular digital and consumer protection, is essential for the completion of the single market. paragraph 82 of the report is moving in the right direction. the compulsory indication of the origin of products protects consumer safety and gives new impetus to the vigorous fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a number of improvements to achieve the objective of a better functioning single market. the text is balanced and there are many points of agreement, such as the request for legislative action by the commission to establish a system of protection based on geographical indications for non-food products. the report also pays particular attention to the protection of the citizen as a consumer and as a worker. i therefore voted in favour of the report in view of the many positive aspects it contains.
in writing. ‒ the single market has been one of the main achievements of european integration, but it has yet to reach its full potential. improvements are needed, particularly in the area of vat, and access to public procurement must be facilitated for firms, and the obstacles posed by non-tariff barriers must be removed. the actions to be taken in the coming years will also have to address the new economic, social and environmental opportunities and challenges posed by the rapidly growing digital market and the collaborative economy, which are changing the way goods and services are delivered and consumed. we all expect the commission, together with the member states, to find legislative solutions to prevent the sharing economy from becoming a way of circumventing market rules to the detriment of consumers. the transposition and subsequent implementation by the member states of european rules on the single market is a sine qua non condition for the single market to be a genuine source of opportunities for businesses and citizens. the report, for which i voted in favour, also calls on the commission to take steps to urge the council to adopt the 'made in' regulation, a measure which is necessary to protect both businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the single market has always been a priority in the process of european integration. it is therefore important to focus our work on this issue in order to achieve a more modern, innovative and fair single market. i therefore voted in favour of the report also because i think it is essential to ensure that the rules on the internal market are fully and correctly implemented, which is a subject on which this report is very much concerned. the document also devotes particular attention to a subject of common interest with my specific competence, namely the compulsory indication of the origin of products (made in), and proposes to unblock the negotiation process with the council. i therefore agree with the report, also with regard to the content in support of smes and also with regard to the clear political message to protect the category of bathers so that they do not compromise the freedom to provide services, and i could only express my support. my intention is to build a real space in which the free movement of people, goods, services and capital is truly guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ today, with the adoption of the single market strategy, the ep has given a concrete response to the needs of our businesses, especially small businesses, and our consumers. the internal market is the real instrument for developing the concept of europe, not only as an economic power but also to unleash its full potential for the benefit of all, so as to increase jobs, boost smes, achieve tangible and timely results in terms of competitiveness, sustainable growth, research, innovation and wide consumer choice. but above all, the european parliament has shown great unity in approving made in. we have shown that we are able to go beyond national egoisms by asking the council to unblock the negotiations once and for all and to proceed without delay to full approval of the mark of origin. it is consumers who are asking us for more product information, transparency and traceability to protect not only their health but also to protect products.
in writing. ‒ safeguarding and strengthening the single market is essential to ensure economic integration and growth, employment in the eu and the development of the digital economy. the single market will only achieve its full potential if member states adopt a common strategic vision that can maximise the benefits for european consumers in terms of the free movement of goods, people, services and capital. my vote in favour is intended to support the proposed measures to improve and accelerate the implementation of the single market. among these, i consider particularly important: harmonisation at legislative level, facilitating smes and start-ups to enable them to grow in the single market, reducing the administrative burden on businesses, using single digital gateways for the exchange of information, cooperation between the public and private sectors to break down barriers in the collaborative economy. this resolution focuses on the responsibilities of the european institutions, on the one hand, and the member states, on the other, in the application of the single market legislation. in particular, i believe that unjustified economic barriers must be removed and a culture of compliance with the rules and of non-tolerance of infringements of the rules on the single market must be developed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. we will fight for the european commission to adopt rules as a matter of urgency to improve the traceability of products, especially to protect consumers. an important step towards the right recognition of the made in italy, which is at the top in preferences. and now the new challenge for the conservatives and reformists is the relentless fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, despite some positive steps, it is a report that puts product traceability based on optional and non-mandatory schemes.
in writing. with today's vote, the european parliament is once again taking a firm stand in support of made in and the protection of excellent products. i thank mrs comi for presenting a strategic report on behalf of the imco committee, which captures the many challenges and benefits that the internal market can bring to europe: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the single market strategy because i believe that only a fairer single market can really benefit european citizens. i strongly supported the ep's requests to the european commission in this important area for future legislative proposals, because only a genuine single market will guarantee citizens, consumers and businesses real protection and benefits in terms of better quality, greater variety, reasonable prices and safety of goods and services. as regards the future legislative proposal to tackle unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of unjustified discrimination, i agree with the need to take account of the principle of proportionality, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, and to show the necessary attention, particularly for social economy enterprises, which represent a variety of business models that are fundamental to a highly competitive and fairer single market. finally, i share the call on the commission to develop a definition of start-ups, smes and social economy enterprises, to integrate the social economy into the policies of the single market and to develop a european action plan for social economy enterprises, in order to unlock the full potential of smart, sustainable and equitable growth.
in writing. i vote in favour of the resolution on the single market strategy. as a purpose of the union we have for many years been working towards the creation of a unified and integrated system which carries forward our fundamental principles. the completion of the single market strategy is essential to achieving this objective. we need a more pragmatic and decisive system, one which is also able to combat the current problems of youth unemployment and immigration. the report highlights the possibility of ensuring greater opportunities for businesses and citizens through ambitious and concrete proposals to promote measures in the individual areas that will make it possible to build a modern, innovative and fair single market. the text contains an important principle, which was incorporated by a large majority, thanks to the work of the rapporteur and the italian delegation of the epp, the so-called made in principle. we consider the obligation to indicate the country of origin on products to be an essential step and it is now up to the european commission to respond to us on this point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the single market strategy. one of the main objectives of the european union is to create a single market, which guarantees the free movement of goods, services, people and capital and ensures a highly competitive social economy, promoting european integration, growth and employment. a commitment by both the eu and the member states to remove those unjustified barriers, leading to less choice and higher costs for consumers, is therefore essential to achieve the completion of this market. greater cooperation between member states will make it possible to enjoy to the full a single market which is more innovative, modern, intensive and fair, a fundamental resource for all european citizens, workers and economic operators, and thus ensure economic prosperity, stimulate new jobs, improve the well-being of europeans and the competitiveness of european enterprises.
in writing. ‒ recognising the importance of the single market as a source of economic integration and sustainable growth, we strongly support the comi report on the single market strategy. the removal of remaining physical, legal and regulatory barriers will benefit the continent with higher employment levels and will help to strengthen economic growth with particular effectiveness in the areas of innovation, which are particularly sensitive to the creation of a critical mass and more prone to non-tariff barriers. economic growth cannot be achieved without structural reform of the single market, which will optimise costs for firms by reducing market fragmentation. the single market is first and foremost a resource for the citizens of europe and the keystone of all measures to support the community economy. we welcome with particular enthusiasm the wish to introduce compulsory indication of the origin of products. the measure, in addition to being in line with the policies aimed at ensuring maximum transparency and consumer protection, strengthens european products of excellence by protecting the high level of reputation of made in from unfair competition practices. we are equally convinced that geographical indications should be extended to non-food products, which are sources of rural growth and ambassadors of our ancient traditions.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the single market has made considerable progress in recent years; the commission has already taken a number of measures to this end. i consider the strategy 'improving the single market: more opportunities for citizens and businesses' to be both necessary and complementary given the level of impact it would have on european economic operators, especially smes. i am in favour of the measures proposed and therefore i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted today presents a new holistic perspective of the single market, for a social market economy based on knowledge, which is environmentally friendly. by proposing a set of concrete measures to increase consumer protection and the creation of sustainable jobs, ensuring social inclusion and fair treatment for workers, it will lead to an improvement in the well-being of european citizens. the commission will have to act in favour of smes, start-ups and the development of the sharing economy, while avoiding providing opportunities for dishonest entrepreneurs to circumvent the rules on workers' rights and consumer protection standards. the executive will need to develop an appropriate definition of a social economy enterprise and a regulatory framework to support its growth and pursue a strategy for tax fairness by combating widespread tax evasion. the importance of education and vocational training is emphasised in order to create more skilled jobs and the need to ensure more security and social protection for workers. finally, thanks to the efforts of our group and the italian delegation in particular, there is a call for the establishment of a european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products and the 'made in' labelling.
in writing. ‒ the text of the communication includes very interesting actions, such as the vat action plan, the legislative proposal on business insolvency, the service passport and a legislative initiative aimed at preventing discrimination against consumers based on nationality or country of residence. but the most important aspect is undoubtedly the one concerning the "made in". this is a battle of strategic importance for italy. my colleague, mrs lara comi, has included in the text proposals concerning geographical indications for non-agricultural products and compulsory labelling for handicrafts and industrial products. i think it is essential to provide relevant information on products for retail sale. in particular, the indication of the country of origin remains essential to protect consumers and to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this text is distinguished not only by the fact that it is an own-initiative report of the european parliament on a subject of such great importance as the single market, but also and above all by the fact that it focuses on all its aspects from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises. the measures requested from the commission are designed to increase the opportunities for enterprises to expand within the single market by means of more harmonized and fairer rules. first, the report stresses the need to implement and strengthen existing rules in order to remove the obstacles that make it more difficult to offer crossborder services. secondly, it takes up the initiative already taken by parliament in favour of geographical indication for non-agricultural products, making manufacturing excellence a strength for companies and a guarantee for consumers. this point in particular is very important for the italian production system. i have voted in favour of this initiative, which i share the ambition of.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential to give the final consumer an ever-greater and more detailed overview of the origin of the products he buys. that is why i voted in favour of the compulsory indication of the origin of products in order to protect the safety of citizens. in this way we can strengthen and at the same time intensify the fight against counterfeiting, a real scourge of our country. if made in italy were a brand, it would be the third most recognized brand in the world after coca cola and visa, so there is a need for greater traceability of products. in this resolution, parliament also asked the european commission to consider introducing a european definition of 'innovative start-ups', a formula recently adopted in italy and which has produced excellent results.
in writing. the report, for which i voted in favour, is part of the process of proposing improvements to consolidate the single market. the text shows that attention is paid to the protection of the citizen as a consumer and also as a worker, who needs adequate protection, but at the same time we have stressed the importance of creating a fertile market for the growth of smes through simple and clear rules. the commission is asked to coordinate and manage the needs of this new market so that regulatory fragmentation does not prevent society from reaping the full benefits of its potential. i have fought to get the commission to introduce a system of protection based on geographical indications for non-food products. a system which will allow the excellence of our continent to be recognized for its peculiarities and to be recognized as a competitive advantage over the low-cost products from emerging economies. the commission has also proposed that a regulatory framework be established for the indication of origin and production on labels, the so-called 'made in'.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the global objective is to eradicate the hiv epidemic by 2012, but this objective will never be achieved unless the problems of africa, especially west and central africa, are addressed. access to life-saving antiretroviral treatment needs to be accelerated in these areas, as coverage reaches less than one third of the population currently in need. 35 countries account for 90% of all hiv infections worldwide. of these, 23 are african. but we have a problem in europe too. in italy, which is 12th in europe for new diagnoses, there's clearly a problem. in 2014, there were 3 695 new hiv diagnoses, or 6.1 cases per 100 000 in terms of incidence. it is therefore essential to initiate special prevention measures but also to activate new investment lines. it should be borne in mind that in low and middle income countries the price of medicines can reach up to 80 times the international reference price. in these countries there is very little availability in the public sector, while there is a great deal of availability in the private sector, where prices are much higher, thus making it inaccessible to huge sections of the population. we have a problem of access to medicines, to medicines, in africa, and at the same time, we have a problem of over-prescription in rich countries. we have, above all, an over-concentration in the industrial production of medicines, which is all in the hands of a very few pharmaceutical companies who have the power to decide the price, the power to set the rules for intellectual property rights and the power to encourage incremental innovation rather than real research. clearly hiv is not economically attractive enough for these pharmaceutical companies and that is scandalous to us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aids has defined the global health policy agenda for an entire generation. the first aids deaths were diagnosed over 30 years ago, and hiv has quickly become a global tragedy. currently, of the 36.7 million people living with hiv, less than half have access to specific health care. a concrete approach requires the setting of ambitious short-term targets that take into account, at the same time, prevention policies aimed at reducing the number of people infected, health policies to reduce the number of people dying of aids and social policies to eliminate discrimination related to hiv infection. it is hoped that the next united nations high-level meeting in new york will take courageous decisions which leave no one behind, because it is clear that the fight against aids depends only on the effectiveness of the policies put in place. the technology, medicines and tools at our disposal are capable of enabling us to achieve the goal set by the adoption of the un agenda to eradicate the epidemic by 2030. but for this to happen, these tools must be made more widely available and more tangible to all, including the poorest countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, policy coherence for development is a fundamental principle of our policies to ensure that we support and do not damage the development prospects of the poorest countries. it will be crucial, above all, to the success of the sustainable development agenda and to its progress. the european union and its member states are facing a migration crisis that they are still unable to manage. yet they fail to realise that if we are to tackle the root causes of flows, there is a tremendous amount of work to be done to ensure the coherence of our foreign, development, trade and fiscal policies, because global inequalities are spiraling up today. every year, developing countries lose hundreds of millions of euros, which would be indispensable to provide basic services to their citizens, through tax evasion and avoidance by our companies. policy coherence for development means making it compulsory for multinationals to report country by country, and also to carry out a thorough analysis of the effects of european fiscal policies on developing countries, starting with the tax treaties we conclude with them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, policy coherence for development is a key element in achieving the objectives of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development. this strategy, although provided for by the lisbon treaty, has not yet been implemented. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. a human rights-based approach would provide a better understanding of policy coherence for development, because without addressing the obstacles to the realization of rights, there can be no progress towards sustainable development and poverty eradication. the main tool for achieving policy coherence for development is impact assessments. the european union must invest more resources in analysing policy coherence. at present, there are few studies and they do not adequately address the potential impact on developing countries. such analyses should aim at identifying inconsistencies and develop appropriate mechanisms for monitoring and controlling progress on development policy coherence, including proposals on how to overcome policy inconsistencies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of harmonized rules on the application of high-quality accounting principles is an essential requirement for regulating competition and an effective method of eliminating obstacles to investment on a global scale. this corrective, which is consistent with the field of prudential regulation, is proving to be all the more necessary in a period of financial crisis. the model of financial reporting principles should therefore be strengthened in order to develop a capital markets union to the extent that they inform the internal governance rules of financial institutions. it should be noted that the increase in financial responsibility has facilitated the single market and the competitiveness of the economy, allowing firms to attract capital and investment. i share the rapporteur's concern about the difficulty of the bodies responsible for establishing accounting principles because of the complexity of the financial instruments used and the need for transparent and comparable global principles that can be understood by a wide range of stakeholders.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of my dear colleague jonathan hill i would first of all like to congratulate mr stolojan on taking the initiative to present this report. i note with pleasure that we have a common understanding on many issues. our conclusions of the evaluation of the ias regulation were overall positive on the experience with ifrs and on the endorsement process, with practical improvements identified. we will carefully consider all the recommendations listed in the report. in fact we have been working on some of them already for some time. in particular, we have noted the need for a better coordination between all actors in the endorsement process. we, therefore, welcome the set-up of a european parliament permanent ifrs team which has already been a helpful forum to discuss ifrs-related issues. regarding the governance of the bodies developing and advising on the standards, in our reply to the ifrs foundation’s consultations on their structure and effectiveness, we passed a strong message to improve the public accountability of the ifrs foundation. we wish to see a more active monitoring board on issues of public interest, an allocation of top jobs to countries that fund it and use its ifrs standards, and a strengthened effects analysis. for efrag, the appointment of the president of the board in the coming weeks will be the last step of the reform. following the withdrawal of wolf klinz and the need for another selection procedure, the commission selected jean-paul gauzès. we are pleased to note that the committee on economic and monetary affairs agreed on 30 may to support mr gauzès’s nomination. in parallel, our services are intensively working with efrag to establish a sound basis for a solid effects analysis methodology which we would like efrag to apply in support of their future endorsement advices. consequently, i am counting on the support of the european parliament to ensure a rapid adoption of our proposal to extend the co-financing of efrag for the period 2017-2020 along the same lines as was earlier agreed with parliament with respect to the ifrs foundation and the piob (public interest oversight board). regarding the request for clarification of certain endorsement criteria such as ‘the public good’ and the ‘true and fair’ principle, i am pleased to inform you that our services have had very constructive and substantial discussions with representatives of the member states in the accounting regulatory committee. we have reached common grounds on these issues in that committee. the case law has been analysed and the maystadt report was taken into account. we will shortly publish the outcome of these discussions and we would be happy to discuss our findings with parliament, to start with in the european parliament ifrs team, if you like. in this context, i would like to mention that at this moment, we see no compelling need to review the existing legislation. on balance, the endorsement process works well and i believe we can bring meaningful improvements with respect to the endorsement process, including with respect to the application of concepts such as ‘public good’ and ‘true and fair’, without the need to legislate, by providing stakeholders and those involved in the standard setting process with the necessary clarifications.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are currently 16 un peacekeeping operations under way on different fronts of the planet, with some 120 000 units deployed. africa is the most important point in the difficult effort to build peace, a continent ravaged by countless conflicts and the cost of these conflicts is counted in millions of deaths, in endless destruction, in the blocking of any development process and in the mass exodus of populations to europe. the european countries and the european union itself are important contributors to the un system, in particular through financial support to un programmes and projects. much more needs to be done to overcome the challenges we face. the present action of the united nations must therefore be strengthened and made more effective by the contribution of all the countries which have the technical and economic means. europe and the international community must be able to meet this challenge, not only through peacekeeping missions but above all by taking the necessary action to prevent conflicts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, efficient and innovative agriculture is essential to tackling the sustainability challenges faced by farming enterprises on a daily basis. the modern agricultural enterprise is not only linked to the production of goods, but also to the concept of multifunctionality, product processing, direct sales, educational farms, agriturismo. i am in favour of the adoption of management systems based on information and communication technologies, real-time data monitoring, sensor technology and the use of sensing systems for the optimisation of production systems or precision agriculture. these measures will lead to better control of the production phases and to higher crop yields. i am therefore a strong supporter of the development of modern agricultural practices. i believe that they can make a major contribution to making agriculture more attractive to young farmers and that is why i believe that the commission must do more to encourage innovation in agriculture.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during this period of the italian election campaign, i have been travelling around the country a lot and i must say that i have met many small businesses. it is no secret that large multinationals do not pay taxes, while small ones are very much crushed. in a functioning european union, in a functioning world, we should find a compromise to make everyone pay a very low level of taxation, so that it is possible to generate savings and not create distortions in competition and unpleasant situations, such as those of the scandals that in italy are called "the secrets of pulcinella". because everyone knew that luxembourg was a tax haven. everyone knew about panama and everyone knows that in these tax havens there are everyone: there are great managers, there are politicians, and there are all those who go to manage the policy from above and go to regulate a little bit the way the world works. people are a little angry and there are now attempts in europe to push through proposals such as the one we have seen with the rapporteur bayet. we as a group have worked very well, trying to work with the groups that really wanted to take a step forward, and we found early on a good participation from groups like the gue and the greens to push forward a proposal to actually make corporate taxes pay. we have also asked for lower deductions for large multinationals, especially on elusive transfer pricing practices. the problem is that a compromise has been reached here too, because in this parliament, as in the council, there are representatives of countries which use these practices to gain an advantage over the other members of the european union. then we must examine our conscience, for this is a subject on which we must not compromise. people are fed up with this system and we must do more, especially with the banks, where we have not yet made a proposal. i would like to ask the commissioner: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a trillion a year lost to tax evasion and avoidance and aggressive tax planning: we could have financed three juncker plans. the luxleaks scandal first, and the panama papers later, may just be the tip of the iceberg. this is unacceptable. tax evasion and avoidance raise the cost of taxes for everyone, exacerbate the debt crisis and deprive the weaker sections of society of resources for investment and basic services. we need strong and immediate responses from europe. the package we are discussing today is certainly a step forward, but it cannot be the last. rules such as a limit on the deductibility of interest in a tax year, the fight against so-called double non-taxation and the transfer of income to subsidiaries in third countries with low taxation are the minimum necessary to begin to tackle the problem. this report, which is the fruit of the rapporteur's excellent work, proposes to make important changes to the proposed package in order to make it more effective. but while the commission seems to have grasped the importance of this challenge, the member states are still displaying a schizophrenic attitude. there is a lack of political will to combat tax evasion, and it is to them that we must turn. i am thinking of the patent boxes, the tax breaks which more and more member states are adopting and which are often not linked to real investment in research and development, but are instead gifts to multinationals and tax-avoidance loopholes. these are global challenges that also require global responses, because these phenomena affect the poorest countries most. we need a europe that does not give discounts on this issue and that sets an example with legislative initiatives that are strong and of a global scope. decisive progress on the automatic exchange of information with developing countries and on the mandatory and public state-by-state reporting of activities in third countries.
before i give the floor to mr lópez bermejo, i should like to inform you that this morning there was a serious attack in istanbul, with more than ten dead and many injured.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the oecd is a good basis for moving closer to the objective we have set ourselves of discouraging tax evasion and avoidance. we have also reached a good baseline, a shared pillar in our parliamentary debate, by establishing the criterion that taxes should be paid where profits are generated. therefore, notional transfers of the taxable base on which the tax is calculated must be disfavoured. that is the point of the debate. let us not forget that the main problem is the transfer of the taxable amount, not so much the amount of the tax rate, because sometimes in parliamentary debate one gets the impression that the concept of courage is confused with the idea that taxes should be increased. let us not forget that the main reason why companies large and small sometimes evade or avoid taxes is that taxes are too high. so trying to solve the problem by increasing them further means going against the very small and mediumsized enterprises whose mouths are often filled with discussion. second point: the intragroup financial operations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. so the debate is a good debate, the work done is a good work, but beware because certain ideological obsessions could result in a reduction, in a kind of undermining of that good work which has as its objective, let us not forget, small and mediumsized enterprises and the economic revival of the whole continent.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the richness and quality of the proposals put forward this morning. i cannot, of course, in view of the number of speakers, answer each and every one of you. i shall therefore limit myself to three points which have been raised repeatedly this morning: the question of tax evasion in relation to competitiveness, tax regimes favourable to patents and, finally, the overall balance of the text as it stands before the council debate next week. i would like to make two brief political remarks at the outset: one to mr monot, who wondered whether we were legitimate in taking action on this matter. no, we are not only legitimate, we are necessary, and it is typically in this kind of subject that we see what europe is for, and the anti-europeans are wrong, because none of our member states could effectively fight tax evasion on their own. we are facing international, global problems, and the answer is at least european. and that is why we must have a europe which is willing, an example europe; it proves the futility of nationalism, of withdrawal, of excesses of any kind or any kind. i would also like to say a word to mr lamberts and the greens, because i am glad that this time we are no longer being criticised for not doing what we are doing, and i think it is very positive that there is a move towards taking account of a number of proposals which are of a high quality. i am all for moving forward together, as long as the analyses are of high quality and the aims are shared. but i'm going back to my three points. first, the issue of competitiveness and sovereignty and, in particular, the underlying issue of ccctb. our proposal, i should say, in general terms, our tax proposals are - i am convinced of this - balanced. the political will to fight tax optimisation is not a fight against business; i am proud to have fought for this from the beginning, and i say this especially to mrs joly, who may not have understood or seen it yet, but since i became commissioner, since the first day of my mandate, this has been a cause i have championed. i see in various media that there are voices which seem to claim that there is a contradiction between competitiveness and transparency. i am convinced of the contrary, in fact, that transparency is a weapon for competitiveness. we're not in an ideological battle for or against the company. our fight is a fight for tax justice, which is also something that serves the deepest interests of the company. how did you do that? by ensuring fair competition rules, particularly for the benefit of our smes, which, as everyone knows, are the engines of growth and employment in the european union. i would also add that we are committed to measures such as the common and consolidated corporate tax base and the resolution of tax disputes, which are important elements in the fight against double taxation. i would add, finally, that both what we are doing in the fight against tax evasion and the project i am pursuing - and i will continue to pursue - to take up the matter in a more intelligent and perhaps more consensual way, is a very important step towards the creation of a european tax system. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the harmonization of taxation rates. this is a debate we had in the council, for example at the last ecofin council with minister noonan. what we want is not minimum taxation, not forced harmonization - we respect fiscal sovereignty - but effective taxation. the time when a multinational company, for example, could, because it had a well-located headquarters or strategically placed subsidiaries, no longer pay taxes or not pay substantial taxes where it creates wealth, that time must come to an end. our proposals do not, i repeat, call into question the sovereignty of the states to set the level of taxation: we do not deny tax competition, but we want it to be harmonious, regulated and there to be effective taxation rules. the proposal you are debating today - and i say this because, again, i do not want there to be any lies, untruths or misinterpretations - does not include a withholding tax or a tax identification number. we are always accused of being a super state - or rather europe is a super state and the commission is a super government - but that is not true, we are not making a bad case by accusing ourselves of attacking sovereignty: on the contrary, i think that by giving ourselves collective rules we are strengthening our common sovereignty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the end of this year, if this process is not satisfactory, we will consider binding measures; the commission, i assure you, remains very vigilant on this point. this approach, moreover, allows us to remain fully consistent with that of the oecd, as several members of parliament have requested. finally, i would like to say a word about what we are going to have next week in the council after the exchange of views we had this morning. our proposal - i am convinced of this, not because i am carrying it as commissioner, but because we have worked a lot on it, because it also goes in the direction of history, that it is expected by the public - was good. it is true that you have improved it, and some of those improvements are in the compromise text currently on the council's table. parliament, as always, will have done useful work. like you, i regret that certain provisions have been weakened during the negotiations, such as the transitional rules on the deductibility of interest. i also regret that some of them are being called into question in their entirety, such as the switchover clause, which i still think is useful and even necessary. but the text retains provisions which are strong, such as the rules on controlled foreign companies, strengthened to cover permanent establishments elsewhere, which will apply within the european union and in relations with third countries. it's a great step forward, just like the general anti-abuse clause is a great step forward. we live in an institutional system which we know: the commission proposes; parliament is a legislator, it also represents the european people; the member states decide, and they must be put under pressure, under pressure to decide best. as i said in my introduction, i believe that we must act and decide now. your vote should keep up the pressure for an ambitious agreement in the council on 17 june. it is to the credit of your rapporteur, mr bayet, and it is to the credit of the debates in this house. i really hope that the message you are delivering, which i regard as a convergent message, consistent with what the commission is proposing, will be heard next week by the member states meeting in the council. i also think that the spirit which is driving us is a useful spirit, a spirit which must continue. you have understood, as i do every time i come before you, that i am struck by the fact that the commission and parliament, with, of course, differences on this or that point, with differences of sensitivity on the various benches of this house, have the same aim, the same ambition, the same will in the fight against tax evasion and that, yes, we are also here to make strong proposals, to make courageous proposals that put the member states before their responsibilities. that is what i take from your debate, and you can count on the commission to relay that to the council as soon as next week.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 june 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the phenomena of harmful tax competition, together with the aggressive tax planning of multinational companies, cause huge losses in tax revenue for states, reducing their capacity to invest and implement reforms. i have spoken on this subject many times. harmonised and consistent regulation is needed to protect savings and promote transparency. the report deals with the sensitive issues of the introduction of definitions of 'stable organisation', 'double deduction' and 'minimum economic substance'. the elements which enable an undertaking to be defined on the basis of factual criteria, taking into account human and material resources, management autonomy, legal reality and the nature of the activities, must be defined in a harmonised and consistent manner. the report deals with the sensitive subject of the digital economy, including fully dematerialised companies which escape factual definition but are nevertheless well established in a member state. the clarification of the patent legislation is also good. i congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
the agenda for the joint debate includes:- the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates (com (((2016) 0056 - c8-0026/2016 - 2016/0033 ((cod)) (a8-0126/2016), and- the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of securities regulation in the european union and on central securities depositories, as regards certain dates (com (((2016) 5700) - c2700/2018 - 2016/0034 (cod)) (a125-0125/2016).
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss these amendments to mifid ii, and i recognise there has been a huge amount of hard work done in the european parliament and in the council to get these agreed before july. i am particularly grateful to mr ferber and to the shadow rapporteurs on this file for having kept up the momentum and having dealt with it so effectively. i very much agreed with what mr ferber said, that this package is a key part of our financial reforms, increasing the transparency of markets and improving their oversight. it responded to the g20 agreement back in pittsburgh to reform derivatives and commodity markets, to make those markets work better, to make them more resilient, to make them more stable – and also of course to strengthen investor protection, not only by ensuring that investors have the right information, but also by introducing stronger rules to avoid conflicts of interest. so we are agreed on the goal, and if that is the goal, to achieve it we need this legislation to be implemented properly, in a way which gives legal certainty, and which does not disrupt markets that provide investment to the wider economy and help businesses manage their risks. this reform was always going to be an ambitious reform. it calls for data from hundreds of trading venues, from some 15 million financial instruments. given the scale of that challenge, the complexity of the it systems that were needed, the european securities and markets authority (esma) judged – rightly, in my view – that more time was needed to get it right, not to undermine the new framework but to make sure that it works properly when it kicks in. so, at their request, it is true that we proposed to extend by a year, until january 2018, the deadline for mifid ii entering into application, and i am grateful to the european parliament and to the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for its support in accepting what i see as being a common-sense proposal. like mr ferber, i am also glad that we have avoided revisiting the key aspects of the package that was agreed just two years ago, but that we have got some technical amendments in this package which improve the quality of the rules. further clarification of the scope of the transparency requirements on package transactions was an issue raised by esma when they submitted their regulatory technical standards (rts), and here i think that parliament’s amendment helps us get the balance right. it ensures that the pre-trade transparency regime continues to apply where it is needed, without imposing unnecessary burdens where it is not. it was also right to exempt securities financing transactions (sfts) from transparency obligations. sfts are not price forming and they will of course be regulated by the securities financing transactions regulation in the future, and so increased transparency in this area would create new burdens but serve little purpose. with the amendment on own account exemption we are acting to make sure that non-financial companies do not fall unnecessarily within the scope of mifid ii and its administrative and capital requirements. we are now working hard to get the majority of mifid ii’s large number of level 2 measures adopted in june, and i completely agree with mr ferber that we have to keep the pace up. in a handful of areas we have asked esma to look again at their proposals reflecting issues that have also been raised by the european parliament. taken together, i believe that these measures should make mifid ii more effective. member states will have to transpose the elements of mifid ii they are responsible for by 3 july 2017. the industry would need to start complying from january 2018. i believe that this is a sensible way forward to ensure the smooth implementation of this legislation and to bring more transparency, better consumer protection and more efficiency to markets in europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too understand that it is very complicated to try to regulate the financial market, but all this time we are taking to do this is something that the citizens do not have at the moment. as mr lamberts said, the financial market has even paradoxically been boosted by the great crisis of 2008-2009, precisely because this type of practice has been encouraged. the commission is doing the same, by giving a little boost to the capital markets union and the financial market, instead of focusing on the separation of banking and the real economy. it is a demonstration of the fact that this europe, this juncker europe, is a europe which very often represents the strong interests of banks and other interests than the european citizens. as for the proposal to extend the deadline - i have already said this - it is not a good thing for us. among other things, it also took the opportunity to insert amendments - as the green colleague always said - and these amendments exempt banks and financial operators from the transparency they should have on their own transactions, on derivative financial instruments such as sfts (securities financing transactions) and efps, which are instruments on which, although they may incur costs for banks, banks must be transparent because they are systemic bodies and when they need them, banks obviously knock on the door of governments and taxpayers. so if we exempt and the parliament and some groups are in favour, but we do not from transparency the banks on certain transactions, the responsible then after the story will bring them out. so i think we must take very firm action on banking and financial regulation. unfortunately, with a commissioner like yourself, hill, i think that's very difficult.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote successfully concludes a crucial process for completing the regulation of the financial markets of the european union, of which mifid and mifir are the essential pillars. parliament and council reached an important agreement to provide stability and certainty to market operators, supervisory authorities and member states by accepting the commission's proposal to delay the application of the legislative package and the transposition of the directive by one year, allowing operators and authorities to adapt the it infrastructures for the collection of data needed to implement the new rules. parliament has been consistent in bringing this process to a rapid and effective conclusion. thanks to the initiative of parliament and the rapporteur, and with the support of the negotiating team, this quick fix also provided an opportunity to make timely amendments to the two texts, which will make their application more consistent with the objectives of the legislative intervention and with the overall regulatory framework. in this connection, i would ask mr lamberts to read the texts rather than to engage in polemics which i consider to be totally inappropriate if one reads the nature of the changes which have been made, which are designed to make the legislation more consistent and effective. i would also point out that securities financing transactions are already covered by the securities financing transactions regulation and are not essential for price determination. the mifid rules are a key element in the effort to harmonise the financial architecture of the union and to create the single rulebook which is a necessary precondition for the creation of a single union market for investment services and capital markets. we therefore reiterate the need for the commission to swiftly adopt the second-level legislation necessary to complete the regulatory framework and ensure its full application by january 2018.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the point we are at, it is inevitable that we will reach 3 january 2018 to ensure more effective and transparent data collection infrastructures for both esma and national authorities. the truth is that we have to be more cautious when introducing reforms of this scale without setting credible and certain time targets, without equipping ourselves with the appropriate tools to ensure the transition phase, for example by empowering esma with financial and human resources. we are thus helping investors, savers and consumers and making the fight to make financial markets more transparent more credible. we cannot set ambitious targets in our legislation and leave it to itself. the postponement of one year is therefore not a concession but a necessity which the various institutions must not squander.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to join with all of you in the words of president schulz, who yesterday, at the opening of the plenary session, referred to our colleague gianluca buonanno, who died in a road accident a few days ago. we want to be close to family, friends and of course also to the political group to which mr bonino belonged. the competent authorities of sweden have notified the election of jakop dalunde to replace peter eriksson as a member of the parliament, with effect from 7 june 2016. pursuant to rule 3 (2) of the rules of procedure, until his credentials have been verified or a decision on a challenge has been taken, mr dalunde shall be entitled to sit in parliament and on its bodies, provided that he has previously declared that he does not hold any office incompatible with that of member of the european parliament.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
in writing. ‒ the framework convention on tobacco control, signed in 2003, aims to reduce smoking-related diseases and deaths through a comprehensive approach. it is therefore clear that the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products is an indispensable component of the achievement of such objectives. in short, the contracting parties are obliged to take all necessary measures to combat illegal production, counterfeiting and smuggling. in view of these considerations, i voted in favour, considering that these practices are not only harmful to the eu budget, but above all extremely harmful to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the szejnfeld report approving the protocol to the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control. this instrument is the most important international initiative in this field and aims to stop a criminal practice that seriously threatens not only public health but also states, generating huge annual losses estimated at over eur 10 billion per year. the protocol introduces new licensing rules and a number of new obligations concerning the retention of documents, the regulation of internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. adopted in seoul on 12 november 2012, it will need to be ratified by 40 parties to enter into force. the adoption of the text by the eu and its member states can be a real step forward towards the entry into force of this important instrument. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that it is necessary to combat the illegal trade in tobacco products, which endangers the health of consumers and generates unfair competition with our italian producers. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i have expressed my positive opinion on the conclusion of the protocol in question under the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control, as it represents the most important international initiative undertaken so far in the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products. the agreement includes a complex set of measures, rules and strategies aimed at securing the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment through the establishment of a comprehensive traceability and traceability system. other provisions to ensure control include licensing rules, document retention requirements, regulation of internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. new offences have also been introduced and issues relating to liability and payments in the event of confiscation, as well as the disposal of confiscated products, have been addressed. the aim is to strengthen international cooperation, including through mutual administrative assistance in customs matters. ratification by all participating countries and organisations will benefit public health and facilitate the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ illegal trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity that must be vigorously combated by the european union and the member states. these activities not only cause economic damage to eu and member states' tax revenues, but also threaten the effectiveness of european and national policies to promote and protect public health. i therefore voted in favour of ratifying the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products signed by the eu in december 2013.
in writing. ‒ according to olaf estimates, the illicit trade in cigarettes robs the eu of some €10 billion a year. such a statement carries with it a number of considerations. first of all, we must consider the effects on the health of smokers of such a proliferation of contraband products, which are not subject to the appropriate controls. the proliferation of the black economy and the substantial profits that result from it, also for organised crime, with the consequent lack of protection of the financial interests of the union, must also be taken into account. the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) provides for a package of measures to secure the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment through the establishment of a comprehensive traceability and traceability system. signed by the eu in 2013, the document will need to be ratified by 40 parties before it can enter into force. timely ratification by the european union (and member states) would significantly contribute to the rapid entry into force and implementation of the fctc protocol. i have joined the house in giving its approval to the council for the conclusion of the protocol, which is the most important international action and at the same time the only multilateral legislative initiative in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe it is important to combat the illegal trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, which is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health, as it undermines tobacco control policies and promotes greater access to often cheaper tobacco products. this activity also entails substantial tax losses to the detriment of the eu in terms of tax and customs duty evasion. the fctc is the most important international initiative in this field. it comprises a complex set of measures, rules and strategies in the area of combating illicit trade in tobacco products, with the aim of making the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment secure through the establishment of a comprehensive traceability and traceability system.
in writing. ‒ the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products is a very important issue in many respects, including health and taxation. i am convinced that the european parliament must take action against this criminal phenomenon which seriously threatens public health. this activity poses serious risks as it facilitates access to products that are not controlled and potentially not in compliance with eu regulations. in addition, these activities entail substantial losses of money to the detriment of public finances in terms of taxes and customs duties. the aim of this legislation is to strengthen border controls, increase penalties for confiscation and establish a comprehensive traceability and traceability system. for these reasons i could only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ illegal trade in tobacco products is a serious threat to public health, damaging tobacco control policies and promoting greater access to tobacco products. in addition, illegal trade entails substantial economic losses to the european union in terms of tax and customs duty evasion. i voted in favour of adopting the protocol because it represents a necessary initiative in this area, establishing a global system for traceability and traceability of products. in addition, the protocol aims to strengthen international cooperation between customs police authorities in order to reduce incentives to smuggling, including by strengthening sanctions. i believe that ratification of the fctc will promote public health benefits and contribute to the fight against the illegal international tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control, which entered into force in 2005 as the first international health treaty, responds to the global tobacco epidemic and aims to tackle some of its root causes, such as the illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health, also considering that it is a cross-border phenomenon. in fact, cigarettes of other brands are circulating on the european market, purchased in non-eu countries at cheaper prices and introduced into the union by evading taxes and customs duties. since 2013, the european union has implemented a strategy to combat cigarette smuggling, in addition to the binding and enforceable anti-fraud agreements between the eu, the member states and the four major tobacco producers (philip morris, japan tobacco international, british american tobacco (holdings) limited, imperial tobacco limited). i therefore voted in favour of ratifying the fctc protocol because i believe it will help to protect public health and the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products has acquired a significant cross-border dimension, requiring international measures, standards and strategies to combat it effectively. the criminal activities that revolve around this business generate huge illicit proceeds and huge losses in terms of tax evasion. illicit tobacco products, and in particular cigarette smuggling, pose an additional risk to the health of consumers and undermine the objectives of policies aimed at reducing smoking-related diseases and deaths. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that ratification of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) will bring substantial benefits in terms of public health, and will also help in the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. illegal trade in tobacco products is a criminal activity that causes serious social, economic and health damage. according to statistics, one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally in the eu. moreover, a large proportion of smuggling is carried out by third countries, which is why a unified approach is needed to prevent and combat such violations. in this connection, we propose ratifying the world health organisation (who) protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc). this protocol, which is the most important international initiative in the field of health, provides for a series of measures to strengthen international cooperation in the fight against the illicit trade in tobacco, tax evasion and organised crime. i therefore vote in favour of the commission's recommendation in order to ensure greater health safety for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol lays down a set of rules and measures to ensure and promote a common strategy for all eu countries to combat the illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, which is also a serious threat to public health.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of ratifying the who framework convention on combating illicit trade in tobacco products, the first multilateral legislative initiative in the health sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. smuggling of cigarettes is a double threat. first, by making tobacco products cheaper and more accessible, the illicit trade raises serious health concerns for citizens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this criminal activity also causes a huge damage to the public coffers, withdrawing some 10 billion euros a year from the revenue. the economic loss, by draining funds from anti-smoking policies and research on melanoma, also causes damage to the well-being of citizens. the phenomenon, by its transnational nature, therefore requires an international framework agreement which, by promoting multilateral cooperation, can eradicate its source. in addition, the mou will respond to the growing interoperability and interconnection of supply chains with greater transparency. the rules it lays down provide for greater cooperation between the competent customs agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr szejnfeld's proposal, as i believe that the swift entry into force of the protocol will further demonstrate the european union's commitment to combating tobacco smoking and the illegal trade in tobacco products in the member states. the estimated serious economic losses annually due to illegal trade make more regulation on the traceability of these products necessary. furthermore, as the protocol strengthens the eu's overall strategy to combat cigarette smuggling, which has been in place since 2013, i believe that the proposal should be encouraged. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ illegal trade in tobacco products, and in particular cigarette smuggling, is a serious threat to public health. in addition, they cause the eu to suffer substantial losses in terms of tax and customs duty evasion, amounting to some eur 10 billion per year. the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) was developed to combat tobacco smoking and certain causes related to the illicit trade in tobacco products. its protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products (fct protocol) also includes provisions on transparency and traceability. the implementing acts and delegated acts on the future traceability system to be adopted pursuant to article 15 of the eu tobacco products directive will need to be compatible with the provisions of the protocol on the same subject. this is the kind of instrument we must support in the fight against the illicit trade in tobacco products, not the renewal of cooperation agreements with the big multinational tobacco companies, such as philip morris, or the relying on these lobbies for traceability systems. i therefore vote in favour of the protocol and call for its early ratification by all member states so that it can enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first international health treaty. it is designed to tackle some of its causes, including the illicit trade in tobacco products. such trade, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health, as it undermines tobacco control policies and promotes greater access to tobacco products at lower costs. the fctc is the most important international initiative in this field. it comprises a complex set of measures, rules and strategies in the area of combating illicit trade in tobacco products, with the aim of making the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment secure through the establishment of a comprehensive traceability and traceability system. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it will benefit public health and help in the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ in line with the ppe group, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol, negotiated under the who framework convention, aims to strengthen international cooperation in combating the trade and smuggling of these products, in order to protect the health of consumers before the financial interests of the parties concerned. the who framework convention is the first and only global initiative to combat tobacco and aims to tackle its causes, including the illicit trade in tobacco products. the health and safety of the public require that the protocol be signed by all parties concerned without further delay. recently, the attention of the press and the public has been directed towards other trade agreements, such as ttip, but there is a risk of forgetting that there is illegal trade from third countries which is really harmful to the eu economy and to the health of european citizens. it is therefore necessary to work towards strengthening international cooperation in order to identify, control and stop the trade in these illicit products.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, 180 parties (including the eu) have signed the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc), which is the world's first international public health treaty. the main objective of the convention is to protect parties from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of second-hand smoke. ratification of this protocol will benefit public health and will help in the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, tax evasion and organised crime. i believe that this protocol is very important for the citizens of europe and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of ratifying it.
in writing. ‒ illegal tobacco products, which are unfortunately increasingly present in the union, represent a serious danger to public health. they are damaging to tobacco control policies and are introducing potentially very dangerous substances into the market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. that is why i find the fctc protocol very useful, because it will bring economic and health benefits to our communities.
in writing. ‒ the united nations economic commission for europe has, among other things, the task of harmonising the regulatory provisions on the elimination of technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles. a number of amendments to the original text of the agreement have extended the guarantees offered by these vehicles and improved the levels of safety and environmental protection. the benefits of market harmonisation are: reuse and recovery of parts, accessories and resources from end-of-life vehicles; removal of trade barriers; development and diffusion of new technologies. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the automotive sector is one of the key sectors in the continent's economy and the main private investor in research and development. 4% of the eu's total gdp comes from the automotive industry, which employs over 12 million workers. given europe's strategic position in this field, it is more crucial than ever to maintain its leadership position while supporting the process of global technological harmonisation. the lange report, which i supported today, approves the conclusion of the unece agreement on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles, their accessories and parts which can be fitted and/or used on motor vehicles. this is an important text which, by setting technical requirements, will help to reduce not only the costs of development, production and certification but also avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ the report on uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles is shareable and well structured. i believe that it will facilitate the production and sale of motor vehicles on international markets. that is why i have voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ in an increasingly interconnected world, with production processes increasingly taking place along global value chains, removing excessive barriers to the movement of goods and products is a priority, as is providing a harmonised regulatory framework capable of ensuring favourable conditions for competition, while maintaining the highest standards of health, safety and environmental protection. the agreement agreed by the european parliament today aims to achieve this in a sector that is key to european competitiveness, namely the automotive sector. it aims to facilitate and further liberalize trade in motor vehicles by defining uniform technical requirements and specifications for the type-approval of vehicle components and the mutual recognition of such type-approval procedures. this is to create a more transparent and effective economic environment, free of unnecessary additional burdens, but at the same time able to guarantee uniform standards and therefore greater safety.
in writing. ‒ the european union must provide support for global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements such as the unece framework help to reduce development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoid duplication of administrative procedures: a lighter and more rational bureaucracy means more efficient and competitive businesses. in particular, we must be aware that the automobile industry and its related industries represent a fundamental economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector, in fact, provides employment for over 12 million people and accounts for 4% of eu gdp, with important implications for both upstream industries (such as steel and chemicals) and downstream industries (such as mobility services, road arteries production and design centres, and port area development). for several decades, the eu as a whole has been one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development: this research must be supported towards increasingly environmentally sustainable and efficient technologies, and to do so it is important to protect the know-how of european manufacturing companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles because, in view of the increasing interconnectedness of global markets (up to 40% of european industrial products are obtained from imported basic products), the removal of unnecessary trade barriers and cooperation on regulatory issues become essential to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development. international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment. in addition, regulatory coherence and transparency are necessary for the development and implementation of effective, cost-effective and more compatible rules. this agreement provides support for global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements such as the unece framework help to reduce development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry is an important sector for the whole european economy. this agreement shall promote regulatory cooperation at international level in this field by promoting technological harmonisation. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure as the car industry and its related industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the eu must provide support for global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements such as the unece framework help to reduce development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoid duplication of administrative procedures. the automobile industry and its related industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector, which employs 12 million people and contributes 4% of eu gdp, is important for both upstream industries (e.g. steel, chemicals) and downstream industries (e.g. ict, mobility services). the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development.
in writing. ‒ the automotive sector provides employment for 12 million people in europe, making it a remarkable industry. i believe that the removal of unnecessary barriers to trade and cooperation on regulatory issues are essential to strengthening a competitive industrial base and to ensuring the utmost protection of the health and safety of citizens. i also believe that the european union should support the development of global technologies, because by adopting common technical requirements it is possible to reduce development costs and production costs, thus benefiting european businesses. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the automotive market and its industry are a key economic sector for the european union. in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the automotive industry and preserve its global technological leadership, the european union must commit itself to removing unnecessary trade barriers and promoting greater cooperation on regulatory issues. regulatory cooperation at international level is the prerequisite for promoting an effective, transparent and clear economic environment that fosters free competition while ensuring high levels of health and safety protection. i voted in favour of the measure because it is a step towards global technological and regulatory harmonization.
in writing. ‒ considering that the automotive industry is a key economic sector for the european union, employing 12 million people and contributing 4% of eu gdp, the european parliament has presented a recommendation to the council on its draft decision on the conclusion of the third revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles. in view of the increasingly interconnected global markets (40% of european industrial products are imported), the removal of unjustified trade barriers and close regulatory cooperation are increasingly necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. the eu must therefore support unece's efforts to achieve effective harmonisation of international standards, which can help reduce production, development and certification costs and avoid duplication of administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the provision of common technical requirements helps to reduce the costs of development, production and certification. it also tends to avoid unnecessary duplication of administrative procedures. this is the way to create a transparent, effective and competitive business environment, while ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report which makes it easier for manufacturers to recognise each other's approvals of motor vehicles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles, their accessories and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on motor vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions (revised 1958 agreement). the automobile industry and its related industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector, which employs 12 million workers and contributes 4% to eu gdp, is important both for upstream industries such as steel and chemicals and for downstream industries such as mobility services. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development. the eu must therefore support global technological harmonisation and encourage regulatory cooperation in view of its potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment, while ensuring health and safety standards.
in writing. today we approved some amendments to technical requirements for motor vehicles. in view of the growing expansion of global markets, it is of paramount importance to provide for the removal of trade barriers and regulatory cooperation in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe. the automotive industry is a key economic sector for the eu. it provides employment for 12 million people and contributes 4% to the eu's gdp. for these reasons, supporting the automotive sector is important to strengthen the eu's competitiveness in the automotive industry and to preserve its global technological leadership; in this context, the reference to the unece agreement helps to reduce the costs of development, production and certification and to avoid duplication of administrative procedures. i therefore vote in favour of the unece agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the honourable member's proposal because i believe that, in a context where the competitiveness of european industries is threatened on several fronts, greater regulatory cooperation between member states in the automotive industry, a key sector for the european union, is necessary and urgent. in this sense, i feel that i share the need to develop a unified position in view of the forthcoming meeting of the united nations economic commission for europe in order to contribute to global technological harmonization. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry and its related industry is a key economic sector for the european union. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development. international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment, while developing and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection. the eu must therefore provide support for global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements such as the unece (united nations economic commission for europe) framework would help to reduce development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoid duplication of administrative procedures. i therefore believe that voting in favour of this recommendation will lead to the removal of unnecessary trade barriers and to the fostering of cooperation on regulatory issues which are essential to maintaining and strengthening a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe.
in writing. ‒ the text of the recommendation discussed in the committee on international trade proposes a number of amendments to the 1958 unece agreement. the text of the agreement provides for harmonisation in the field of vehicles, with a view to eliminating technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the parties to the agreement and to ensuring that the vehicles in question offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. i voted in favour of the recommendation because i support the position of the european commission, in favour of an agreement which will attract new countries such as india, china, the asean countries and brazil. the european market is the number one producer of cars and vehicles of the highest quality, with 12 million workers in the automotive industry and 4% of eu gdp. harmonisation, allowing the recognition and acceptance of eu vehicle legislation worldwide by the partners in the agreement, would not only be a way to remove non-tariff barriers to trade, but would also be a major achievement for the eu.
in writing. ‒ at the june 2016 meeting of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), the eu will present its proposal for the third revision of the unece agreement concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles, their accessories and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on motor vehicles. as the unece agreement provides for a reduction in the development, production and certification costs for the automotive industry and as it also seeks to avoid repetitive administrative procedures in order to promote the development of a transparent and effective economic environment, i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the european council's decision of 9 february 2016 to harmonise technical requirements for wheeled vehicles. the automotive sector in europe employs some 12 million people and contributes 4% to european gdp. all member states contribute to this value chain, which must now strengthen its global leadership. political action is needed to remove all unnecessary barriers to trade and to encourage cooperation between member states on regulatory issues and to create a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment.
in writing. ‒ on 26 june 2012, the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement was signed in brussels, with the aim of establishing new trade relations. in september of the same year, the commission was authorised to conclude an additional protocol to take account of the accession of croatia to the trade agreement. the agreement's main points are trade liberalization and certain regulatory provisions on the origin of goods, health, intellectual property and competition. the participation of croatia is therefore a logical consequence of the accession procedure. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in june 2012, the european union concluded an agreement with colombia and peru providing for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. the text also contains a number of rules on competition, intellectual property and public procurement, and other provisions relating to the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade and sanitary and phytosanitary measures. the fisas ayxelà report, which i supported with my vote today, approves the protocol amending the agreement and thus allows croatia to accede to it. this is a technical measure that allows the balkan country, which joined the eu in july 2013, to take full advantage of the possibilities offered by its entry into the community area.
in writing. ‒ i believe that free trade negotiations with south american countries can generate trade dynamics that are risky for the production system of our territories. for this reason, although the subject of the vote is an additional protocol to an existing agreement, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the trade agreements that the eu concludes with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement provides for the liberalization of trade in agricultural and industrial products, as well as in services. it is clear that croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the european union implies a natural acceptance of the acquis communautaire and therefore also the necessary participation in trade agreements already concluded by the union with third states. in view of this, i voted in favour of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru.
in writing. ‒ in voting in favour of the measure, i considered the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru, which was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012, to be important. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with colombia and peru with a view to concluding an additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 agreements between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, are a major lever for trade between the old continent and latin america. since the european union is enlarging to include croatia, it is natural for croatia to take over all the agreements currently in progress, and that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ croatia's participation in the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement, which provides for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also includes provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted on the technical update to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, in relation to the entry into force of the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. i would remind you that the agreement between these countries, which has been in force since june 2012, establishes an important legal framework for the liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital between the two parties and may, if the conditions are met, be extended in the future to the other two members of the andean community, ecuador and bolivia. the treaty represents an important step forward in strengthening our trade and investment relations with these countries, especially in times of economic crisis, when trade can help development and employment by encouraging sustainable and quality business for both sides.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation as i consider that croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. the completion of the necessary legal procedures by the commission and the council to allow such participation is therefore a mere due act.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because some trade agreements with non-eu countries could be harmful to our production system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. since september 2012, the council has authorised the opening of negotiations between the member states and colombia and peru to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the agreement provides for the liberalization of trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement.
in writing. the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement aims at liberalising trade in agricultural and industrial products, but also in services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. we are voting today for croatia to join that agreement. it is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu and therefore the commission and the council's initiation of the legal procedures to ensure such participation is a necessary step. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this agreement, signed in brussels on 26 june 2012, provides a solid legal framework for important areas such as public procurement, services and investment, and is a key instrument for the growth and development of regional integration, as well as for the strengthening of political and economic relations. an additional protocol to that trade agreement, which takes account of the accession of croatia to the european union, therefore appears to be a logical and natural consequence, thus ensuring that croatia, like all other member states, assumes the obligations and benefits of that agreement.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european parliament approved in december 2012 the conclusion of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part; whereas the european commission has conducted negotiations with the two countries for the conclusion of an additional protocol to the trade agreement aimed at including croatia among the contracting parties; whereas, following the accession of croatia to the european union, its participation in the trade agreement is entirely natural; finally, i have voted in favour of the amendment, since the european parliament's approval is required for ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that croatia's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is a further step forward in the alliance with important and fast-growing countries and regions. the text of the protocol of accession of croatia to the trade agreement with colombia and peru also meets the ambitions of both the eu and croatia. such an agreement will result in increased and diversified trade and investment by both parties, act as an important factor for economic and social development and contribute to alleviating poverty and reducing inequalities. i hope that this agreement will enter into force quickly and fully.
in writing. ‒ the vote in favour of the protocol tabled by mr fisas ayxelà will allow the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru to be extended to croatia, the latest country to become a member of the union. the signing of this agreement dates back to 2012. although peru and colombia represent secondary outlets for european exports (about 0.6% of exports), the agreement is a stepping stone to the whole of latin america. this is evidenced by the fact that the format of the agreement leaves the door open to other countries in the region, such as ecuador and bolivia. the sectors which have benefited most from trade liberalisation are agri-food, while for the eu the sectors of motor vehicles, machinery and chemicals have benefited most.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation is the procedure which allows at least nine member states to proceed to closer integration or cooperation in a particular area of european law. this allows the member states to move at different speeds in order to achieve objectives which are considered urgent. in this case, cooperation was sought in relation to decisions on matrimonial property regimes, with which the eastern european countries have shown some scepticism. i voted in favour of this procedure, since the conditions laid down in the treaties are met.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cavada report on enhanced cooperation on international matrimonial property regimes. this is a procedural measure approving an earlier council decision authorising the development of enhanced cooperation in the matters concerned, as provided for in article 20 teu and articles 326 and 327 tfeu. enhanced cooperation has become necessary following the refusal of some countries to support two projects proposed by the commission in 2011. the launch of this procedure, overcoming the deadlock, will allow 23 member states to continue to integrate on issues concerning the recognition and enforcement of decisions on international couples' property regimes, matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ the report on enhanced cooperation on international couple's property regimes responds to a request from 18 member states, including italy. this is not a proposal from the top of the eu institutions, but comes directly from the states to improve cooperation in this specific area. i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text voted on today, whereby the european parliament gave its approval to the establishment of enhanced cooperation between 18 eu member states, including italy, in the area of jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions on international matrimonial property regimes, with reference to matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships. the need for enhanced cooperation arises from the desire to provide a clearer and more comprehensive legal framework for many international couples who are often faced with problems arising from different, sometimes even conflicting, national property regimes. the main purpose of enhanced cooperation is therefore to treat the matrimonial property regime of couples in a consistent manner, to provide greater certainty in the identification of the competent court, while still allowing the parties to enjoy a certain degree of autonomy in the choice of the applicable law. the aim is to avoid the aggregation of parallel proceedings or the issuing of conflicting judicial decisions, by providing legal certainty, simpler procedures and greater predictability for the increasing number of international couples in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of international matrimonial property regimes, with reference to matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships. clear rules are established in the event of divorce or separation and parallel and potentially conflicting proceedings in several member states are brought to an end, providing greater legal clarity for international couples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of activating enhanced cooperation, as the legal criteria for doing so exist. the request to initiate enhanced cooperation arises from the fact that, as regards the circulation of decisions on matrimonial property regimes (with particular reference to those on civil unions), some countries, mainly in eastern europe, do not want to continue with integration.
in writing. ‒ despite the progress made in the process of european integration, millions of citizens linked by marriage or by an international registered partnership face practical problems in managing their assets. it is often difficult for such couples to know which court has jurisdiction and which property regime applies to their property situation, particularly in the event of separation or succession. in the field of family law, legislative acts are adopted by the council acting unanimously. however, in the specific case, 18 member states requested an enhanced cooperation procedure, as it was not possible to reach unanimous approval of the proposals. i joined the house in voting in favour of the council authorising enhanced cooperation on matrimonial property regimes for international couples, so as to provide the states which are party to community legislation with a clear and comprehensive legal framework on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property regimes which will make it easier for many international couples to resolve their problems in this area.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure as the commission, at the beginning of 2016, submitted, using the enhanced cooperation procedure, new proposals for acts based on the content of the compromise reached earlier. enhanced cooperation must meet several conditions: be a last resort, where the objectives of such cooperation cannot be attained within a reasonable time by the union as a whole, provided that at least nine member states participate; respect the treaties and union law, as well as the competences, rights and obligations of member states not participating in it; to promote the achievement of the union's objectives, protect its interests and strengthen its integration process; not prejudice the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion; the commission has not been able to establish that the aid is compatible with the common market. such enhanced cooperation in the area of the property rights of international couples is therefore clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ this proposal arises from the deadlock in negotiations between member states which cannot find a common meeting place for all. i therefore support the proposal for enhanced cooperation as the ideal solution, since it is fully in line with the objectives of the european union and is intended as a last resort when the aims of cooperation cannot be achieved within a reasonable time. these are the reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ although this is a purely procedural decision, necessary for the launch of enhanced cooperation, we wish to express our support for the council's decision. the procedure will make it possible to unblock negotiations in an area which, in our view, is of great importance, namely jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on international matrimonial property regimes, with reference to matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which is the result of a free choice of cooperation between certain states in the area of the matrimonial property regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of international matrimonial property regimes, with reference to matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships. parliament strongly supported the authorisation of this enhanced cooperation, provided for in the tfeu, in an area which is of close interest to european citizens and is clearly in line with the union's objectives, but above all it comes after the deadlock in negotiations between all member states on the initial proposals presented by the commission in 2011 and allows the majority of member states in favour of enhanced cooperation to move forward in this important area, without prejudice to the interests of member states that are not in favour of further integration. i supported this resolution because it meets important conditions such as promoting the achievement of the union's objectives, protecting its interests and respecting the union's treaties and law, as well as the competences, rights and obligations of the member states not participating in it, protecting its interests and strengthening its integration process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to clarify the rules applicable to international couple's property regimes in the european union. today, there are some 16 million international couples living in the european union, accounting for one fifth of all registered unions in the community. the costs of parallel judicial proceedings in different countries are estimated at over eur 1 billion per year. the decision to use enhanced cooperation in the field of the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on international matrimonial property regimes is, in my view, the best way to achieve agreement among all the member states on the proposals put forward by the commission.
in writing. this recommendation requires parliament to express its approval of enhanced cooperation on international couple's property regimes. these proposals will make it possible to establish precise rules which will make it possible to put an end to very long procedures in the event of divorce or separation, in accordance with the objectives and interests of eu citizens. i therefore support the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration. following a deadlock in negotiations between the member states on the property rights of international couples, recourse to enhanced cooperation, as provided for in article 20 of the treaty on european union, seems to be the only viable option for the matter at hand. since enhanced cooperation in this case meets the conditions laid down in the treaty, i felt it necessary to express my support.
in writing. ‒ the decision to use enhanced cooperation on international matrimonial property regimes follows the deadlock in negotiations between member states. the commission therefore submitted new proposals for acts based on the previously reached compromise at the beginning of 2016, using the enhanced cooperation procedure as a last resort. i voted in favour of approving enhanced cooperation in this area.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr cavada authorises enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on international matrimonial property regimes. with the full movement of people in europe, marriages between citizens of different nationalities have also increased. the report published a while ago on the number of couples born under the erasmus programme, while it may be amusing, also highlights the figures of a phenomenon which is becoming increasingly widespread in europe. in the face of the deadlock in the member states on family law, enhanced cooperation has emerged as the ideal solution in this area. in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ since 2014, the european institutions have been trying to reach agreement on a topic of great importance for families: the proposal is to harmonize the laws of the member states on property regimes in order to make it easier for couples of different nationalities to carry out their duties. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted in favour, hoping that the compromise reached by the 18 member states would soon be extended to the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's framework protocol on tobacco products aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. to this end, it is required to establish a comprehensive traceability and traceability regime that demonstrates its effects at both national and regional level. the protocol also aims to strengthen international cooperation and information sharing and provides for a set of rules aimed at improving supply chain controls. in view of the fundamental value of the health of citizens, i voted in favour of the proposal for ratification of the said protocol.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products was signed in 2013. the anderson report, which i supported with my vote, approves this protocol which focuses in particular on the supply chain dimension. this is an important instrument whose main objective is to define a global traceability and traceability regime for tobacco products. the measures adopted include licensing rules, new record-keeping obligations, regulation of internet sales, tax-free sales and international transit. the central point, however, is the creation of a global information-sharing centre within the secretariat of the who tobacco control convention. the protocol is undoubtedly an important step forward in encouraging and strengthening international cooperation, favouring not only technical cooperation but also mutual assistance between the signatories in the legal and administrative fields.
in writing. ‒ the anderson report is balanced and acceptable. i have always fought against counterfeiting in all its forms and the illegal trade in tobacco products is causing enormous damage to our producers and consumers themselves. this text is a step forward in the fight against counterfeiting and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the illicit trade in tobacco products is a serious phenomenon, causing extremely negative effects on the health of european citizens and huge annual losses to the eu and its member states amounting to over eur 10 billion a year. given that the majority of illegal tobacco products entering the eu come from third countries, i believe that the conclusion of multilateral international agreements is one of the most important instruments for effectively combating this phenomenon. therefore, in line with the 2013 eu global strategy to combat smuggled cigarettes, i strongly support the conclusion and ratification, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products drawn up under the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control. by promoting measures such as the establishment of a global system of traceability and traceability, common rules to encourage greater control of licences, stricter regulations on internet sales or even greater customs cooperation, i believe that the protocol in question can actually help to combat tax evasion, crime and better protect public health.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i have expressed my positive opinion of the agreement reached on the protocol in question as regards the provisions relating to the obligations concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of tobacco offences. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal activity that poses a serious threat to public health, as it undermines tobacco control policies and promotes greater access to often cheaper tobacco products. this activity also entails substantial tax losses to the detriment of the eu in terms of tax and customs duty evasion. it is estimated that the eu and its member states suffer revenue losses of over eur 10 billion each year. a significant proportion of illicit tobacco products entering the eu come from third countries, so the best strategic option to tackle this cross-border phenomenon is to implement an effective global regime. the agreement reached aims to encourage and strengthen international cooperation, effective information sharing, technical and law enforcement cooperation, and mutual assistance in both legal and administrative matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question as it is useful in order to combat and sanction effectively the illegal trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure because it is aimed at eliminating the illegal trade in tobacco products from the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control, as regards the provisions on obligations concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of offences. in addition, it is suggested that a non-legislative resolution be adopted, including other very important points such as the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting by indicating the origin of tobacco.
in writing. ‒ the fight against smuggling of tobacco products cannot be done in words alone but must involve concrete actions. i voted strongly in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the introduction of global tracking systems and the tightening of sanctions are effective steps to control products entering europe and to discourage illegal behaviour. i believe that this agreement can help to safeguard the health of the citizens of the european union directly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the protocol because the objective is to eliminate all forms of illegal trade in tobacco products. the protocol provides for a series of measures to be taken by governments to combat illicit trade in tobacco, with a particular focus on the supply chain of the products. a global traceability and traceability system is to be established, which will enable information to be shared globally on trade in this sector. the protection of public health as a fundamental value requires increased controls and cooperation between customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products, understood as any practice prohibited by law on the production, shipment, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. the protocol provides for a series of measures to be taken by governments, such as the establishment of a comprehensive traceability and traceability regime, measures to control the supply chain of illicit tobacco products, the strengthening of international and technical cooperation, and mutual assistance in both legal and administrative matters. the protocol addresses a primary issue for european citizens: the irreconcilable conflict between the interests of the tobacco industry and the interests of public health. i therefore believe that the eu should ratify this protocol as soon as possible. i therefore supported the european parliament's approval of the draft council decision on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products in the framework of the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control, on obligations concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ do everything possible to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco products. i voted for each member state to strengthen international cooperation and information sharing, thus addressing a major common challenge involving the economic, political and legal spheres of each eu country.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which aims to combat and eliminate all forms of illegal trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control, as regards the provisions on obligations concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. i am convinced that the large majority vote in the strasbourg plenary on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement represents a fundamental contribution to international initiatives aimed at eliminating all forms of illegal trade in tobacco products and thus combating tax and customs evasion. the data available show that controls on production, customers, transport and payment for cigarettes have been intensified since the entry into force of the three previous agreements between the eu and tobacco producers, resulting in an overall decrease in the number of important illegal products within the eu. finally, i hope that further efforts will be made to trace products coming from smes and to ensure that civil and criminal sanctions are effective in the event of seizure of illicit products.
in writing. the objective of the protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. for this very reason, the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in such products must be ratified by the european union as soon as possible. this is a very serious problem and a threat to our society from a health, political and even economic point of view. what is required by the following protocol is therefore the adoption of a series of measures and alternatives which governments should implement immediately in order to solve this enormous problem. once the protocol is implemented, it will require the establishment of a system that can define its traceability and traceability for the sharing of useful information. moreover, the same, which acknowledges the existence of illegal trade in tobacco products, aims to introduce the existence of certain criminal offences, addressing the question of liability and disposal of confiscated products. i therefore support the protocol in order to ensure greater security for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control, as regards the provisions on obligations concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. the protocol is a major contribution to the elimination of all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products and a tool to combat tax and customs evasion, and also introduces certain criminal offences, liability and disposal issues for confiscated products. in order to ensure that the objectives of that protocol are fully achieved, it is essential to enhance cooperation between member states through an automated data exchange system and to establish a comprehensive traceability and traceability regime.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to express my support for mrs anderson's proposal, as i believe that the european union should immediately ratify the who protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products. as these are behaviours which are prohibited by law, new measures for traceability, including tobacco products, and the exchange of information between national governments appear useful and necessary. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ while recognising the existence of illicit trade in tobacco products, the world health organisation protocol also aims to address other aspects. it introduces certain criminal offences and deals with questions relating to liability and payments in the event of confiscation and the disposal of confiscated products. the protocol also aims to encourage and strengthen international cooperation, effective information sharing, technical and law enforcement cooperation, and mutual assistance in both legal and administrative matters. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the stated objective of the world health organisation protocol is to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. to this end, the protocol lays down measures to control the supply of tobacco products, rules on licensing, record-keeping obligations and a regulation of internet sales. it also introduces certain criminal offences and deals with questions relating to liability and payments in the event of confiscation and the disposal of confiscated products. since ratification of the protocol will benefit public health and at the same time make a major contribution to the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ after the financial scandals of the past and the present, europe needs tougher regulation of financial markets. the report requests an extension of the entry into force of mifid and mifir, citing a failure to provide regulatory technical standards and delegated acts within the deadline set by esma and the commission. it seems unreasonable and unjustified to postpone further legislation on this matter. in addition, an exemption for high-frequency trading (hft) operations has been inserted. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the ferber report on the securities market. this is a technical measure amending certain dates in directive 2014/65/eu which established a new regulatory framework for securities markets, securities dealers and trading venues following the outbreak of the international financial crisis. the amendment of the directive was necessary to extend the date of application of the entire regulatory framework, including all the delegated and implementing acts envisaged, by one year, giving member states the time necessary to receive it properly.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with an interesting and shared subject which is unfortunately not addressed clearly and which could leave room for future manipulation and criticism. that is why i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ mifir and mifid are the cornerstones of financial market regulation, seeking to encourage the competitiveness of financial markets through the creation of a single market for financial services and investment activities and through a high degree of harmonisation of investor protection in europe. stabilising financial markets and being transparent with consumers is a priority for us, but we must consider the timing needed to ensure that the implementation of reforms in this area is effective and realistic. i therefore support mr ferber's report, which welcomes the commission's request to delay the application of mifid ii by one year, to january 2018. this will, inter alia, set reasonable and realistic deadlines for esma and national authorities.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu regulate markets and securities brokers with a view to improving transparency and supervision of financial markets and conditions of competition in the field of trading and clearing of financial instruments. to that end, the new regulatory framework introduced requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with financial instrument reference data that describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument falling within the scope of the regulatory framework. for the purpose of efficient and harmonised data collection, the european securities and markets authority is developing, in cooperation with the national competent authorities, a financial instruments reference data system. given the complexity of the drafting of this instrument and in order to ensure legal certainty and avoid any market disturbance, i support the proposal to extend the time-limits for the entry into force of the regulation and the directive in question.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration and discussion in the house, i have voted in favour of the report amending the directive in question, as i believe that the lack of data collection infrastructures has important implications for the entire scope of directive 2014/65/eu. without data it is not possible to establish precisely which financial instruments fall within the scope of the new regulatory framework. a new infrastructure is being developed for efficient and harmonised data collection. to that end, the european securities and markets authority, in cooperation with the national competent authorities, is in the process of establishing a system of financial instrument reference data. the january 2017 deadline will not be met by member states that have to apply the measures transposing the directive. it is therefore more than appropriate to extend the date of application of the entire regulatory framework, including all delegated and implementing acts, by one year. it is not necessary for me to dwell on the danger to legal certainty and to market disturbances of failure to comply with this transposition by the deadline.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request to postpone the entry into force of the mifd and mifir from 3 january 2017 to 3 january 2018. the delay is justified solely by the inefficiency of the institutions in producing the second-level acts concerned.
in writing. ‒ i considered that i would vote in favour of the measure as regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu set requirements for the authorisation and exercise of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers, harmonise the regime of position limits on commodity derivatives in order to improve transparency, promote orderly conditions for price formation and prevent market abuse, and also introduce rules on high-frequency trading and improve financial market supervision through the harmonisation of administrative penalties. in addition, by developing existing rules, the new regulatory framework also strengthens investor protection by introducing strict requirements on organisation and conduct of business.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal for a directive because i believe that the centrality of the financial system in the european economy justifies additional controls over those required of firms in other sectors (and often excessive ones!). businesses must be free to make their own choices and thrive on them, but only if they take full responsibility for the direct and indirect effects. since this is often not the case in the financial sector, it is good that controls are intensified for the benefit of the sector itself as well as all those downstream.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve transparency and to promote orderly pricing conditions and to prevent market abuse, regulated financial instruments are necessary. rules on high-frequency trading should be introduced and financial market supervision should be improved by harmonising administrative penalties. i voted in favour because, by improving the existing rules, the new regulatory framework would also strengthen investor protection by introducing stricter requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution because the amendment of the transposition date is essential and urgent in order to enable the european authority esma and the national authorities to complete the construction of the data collection infrastructure, avoiding the risks of market disturbances and improving the competitiveness of financial markets. however, i believe that in future we should be more careful and cautious in setting the time-frame for the entry into force of the regulations, because postponing a date of transposition could have a negative impact on the guarantee of legal certainty, especially in a sensitive and closely monitored area such as the markets for financial instruments. investors and savers need to find a sound financial environment, free from uncertainties, in which to develop their potential. at the same time, member states must be able to transpose directives in a linear manner, without additional costs and procedural uncertainties. it is our task as co-legislators to ensure that this is so by putting the commission's departments in the best possible position to do their job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i consider it appropriate to extend the deadline by which member states will have to apply the measures transposing directive 2014/65/eu and consequently repealing directive 2004/39/ec. this is due to the size and complexity of the data that esma and the national competent authorities are required to collect and process, which does not allow the infrastructure necessary to ensure its proper functioning to be built within the timeframe set, and therefore undermines legal certainty, creating possible market disruption.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because in some sectors the supervisory instruments have proved insufficient to prevent speculation and dominant positions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the postponement of the entry into force of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid ii), the related regulation (mifir) and the related secondary acts to 3 january 2018 because i believe that these two very complex and important regulatory acts are two key pillars to support the stability of financial markets, while providing certainty to the supervisory authorities of the member states and esma to ensure uniform application. the legislation lays down requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms, regulated financial markets and data communications service providers, harmonising existing legislation, in particular that on commodity derivatives, in order to prevent market abuse. they were sacked at the end of the last legislature in response to the financial crisis, which originated in the us in 2008 and later spread to the eu. however, the complexity of the matter and particularly the need to allow the it infrastructures responsible for the collection of data to be fully operational made the referral necessary. the european parliament and the council have therefore accepted esma's call to postpone the entry into force and to reschedule the entire implementation schedule provided for in the two legislative acts.
in writing. directive 2004/39/ec, also known as the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), provides harmonised regulation for investment services across the eu. it lays down requirements in relation to a number of elements, such as investor protection, market integrity, enhanced competitive mechanisms, market efficiency and improved governance systems for investment firms. the mifir (markets in financial instruments regulation) on the other hand lays down, inter alia, uniform requirements in relation to the disclosure of trading data to the public, the reporting of transactions to competent authorities and the trading of derivatives on organised venues. i believe that in a very technical discipline such as this, it is a priority to establish a coherent framework for the creation of an integrated and competitive financial market by identifying uniform european rules, which is why i am voting in favour of mr ferber's report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates. the delay will allow the data collection system to be ready and operational, and will also support the information and operational system. to quote the text: 'in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid potential market disturbances, it is necessary and justified to act as a matter of urgency to extend the date of application of the entire regulatory framework, including all delegated and implementing acts. "
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the securities market. although it is an area in which regulation is necessarily difficult to understand because of its extreme complexity and the level of detail reached, regulation of the products which are the object of the activity of banks and investment companies. the mifid legislative package, together with the legislation necessary for its implementation, has been designed and developed by the european securities and markets authority together with the european commission over the past two years. the market in financial instruments is not yet harmonised across the eu countries, although it is one of the keys to achieving a single market. mifid is a set of rules that aims at fairness in markets in consumer protection, transparency and simplicity of financial products. the specifications of the legislative package in question also include a set of rules designed to prohibit or restrict the use of instruments that are potentially dangerous or harmful to the stability of markets.
in writing. ‒ considering that directive 2014/65/eu and regulation (eu) 600/2014 are fundamental acts for european financial regulation and promote a detailed collection of data and information on the various financial instruments, considering that the collection of such complex data makes it difficult for member states to transpose the european directive within the time limits provided for therein, considering, moreover, that the proposal of the colleague to postpone by one year the date of transposition of directive 2014/65/eu and the date of repeal of the previous one allows states to equip themselves with the necessary infrastructure for the collection of data, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ article 93 of directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments requires member states to apply the measures transposing that directive from 3 january 2017. however, due to the size and complexity of the data to be collected and processed, neither the national competent authorities nor esma (european securities and markets authority) are able to ensure that the necessary data collection infrastructures will be in place and operational by that date. therefore, in the light of the exceptional circumstances and in order to allow esma, the national competent authorities and stakeholders to complete the operational implementation, it is appropriate to extend by 12 months, until 3 january 2018, the date by which member states are to apply the measures transposing directive 2014/65/eu. to allow all this, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr ferber proposes some changes to the date of implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive. in april 2014, the european parliament had approved both mifid ii, an updated version of mifid, and mifir, the accompanying report of mifid, which was expected to be implemented by member states by january 2017. due to some difficulties encountered in the implementation of these measures, the commission proposed to postpone the implementation of mifid ii and mifir to 2018. in voting in favour of the report presented in plenary, i gave my approval to this postponement, which will make it possible to clarify certain points of the legislation and will also make it possible to build complex information systems for the application of the new package. these measures represent an important step forward in financial matters, in the sense of greater harmonisation of investment services throughout the european union. i would like to stress the importance of these packages, which are aimed at increasing competition and consumer protection in the investment services sector. i am therefore of the opinion that the implementation of those measures cannot be postponed beyond 2018.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of extending the transposition of directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments for member states by 12 months, i.e. until 3 january 2018. since neither the parties concerned nor the national authorities are able to ensure that the data collection infrastructure is operational by that date, i consider it necessary to extend the entire regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report with the objective of extending the entry into force of mifid and mifir from 3 january 2017 to 3 january 2018, since esma and the european commission have not provided the regulatory technical standards and delegated acts within the deadline set by the legislation. in addition, this report provided a good opportunity to submit a further amendment to the text of the mifid/mifir. in fact, some exemptions from transparency requirements for transactions involving derivative contracts for own account have been proposed through amendments co-signed across the board by several political parties (s&d, epp and alde). firstly, we think that the one-year extension is unreasonable, since it is mainly due to the inefficiency of the eu institutions in producing second-level acts. secondly, we are strongly opposed to the inclusion of exemptions for derivative and other financial contracts as this could undermine the stability of the financial system. that is why we voted against it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ after the financial scandals of the past and the present, europe needs tougher regulation of financial markets. the report requests an extension of the entry into force of mifid and mifir, citing a failure to provide regulatory technical standards and delegated acts within the deadline set by esma and the commission. it seems unreasonable and unjustified to postpone further legislation on this matter. in addition, certain exemptions for transactions in derivative contracts have been inserted. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ferber report on the securities market, market abuse and securities regulation. this is a technical measure amending certain dates in regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of the previous securities regulation in the european union and on central securities depositories. these instruments established a new regulatory framework for securities markets, securities brokers and trading venues following the outbreak of the international financial crisis. the amendment of the provisions was necessary in order to extend the date of application of the entire regulatory framework, including all the delegated and implementing acts envisaged, by one year and to complete certain parts.
in writing. ‒ the problem raised by the report on markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities regulation is concrete and shared. unfortunately, it is not dealt with in a clear way, which could leave room for future manipulation and criticism. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the key element of these reforms is to make financial markets more stable and better monitored, in line with the commitment to strengthen the global financial system made at the g20 in pittsburgh. there are no substantial changes compared with the proposals of two years ago, but technical amendments to the package have been drawn up which improve its provision and make its application more consistent with the regulatory framework. of course, since these are highly complex provisions requiring the collection of enormous amounts of data and the use of complex technological systems, it is important that there is agreement between the commission, parliament and the council to ensure that the second-level legislation necessary to complete the regulatory framework is adopted quickly and to give operators the time necessary to adapt the it and technical infrastructures for data collection and the implementation of the new provisions. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu regulate markets and securities brokers with a view to improving transparency and supervision of financial markets and conditions of competition in the field of trading and clearing of financial instruments. to that end, the new regulatory framework introduced requires trading venues and systematic internalisers to provide competent authorities with financial instrument reference data that describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument falling within the scope of the regulatory framework. for the purpose of efficient and harmonised data collection, the european securities and markets authority is developing, in cooperation with the national competent authorities, a financial instruments reference data system. given the complexity of the drafting of this instrument and in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid any market disturbance, i support the proposal to extend the time-limits for the entry into force of the regulation and the directive in question.
in writing. ‒ after careful analysis and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report amending the regulations under consideration, as i believe that limiting positions in commodity derivatives, introducing rules on high-frequency trading and introducing strict requirements on organisation and behaviour will improve the transparency of financial markets and strengthen investor protection. investment firms often carry out, on their own initiative or on behalf of their clients, transactions in derivative contracts or activities involving several linked transactions. such a package of transactions allows investment firms and their clients to better manage risks, as the price of each element of the package of transactions reflects the overall risk profile of the package rather than the current market price of each element. the package of transactions can take various forms, from trading strategies executed on trading venues to tailor-made packages of transactions. it is important to take these specificities into account when calibrating the applicable transparency regime. it is therefore appropriate to specify the specific circumstances in which pre-trade transparency should not apply to bundles of transactions or to any single element of such transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report which contains the request, which is totally inappropriate and not in the interests of the citizens of the european union, to postpone the entry into force of the mifd and mifir by one year. my negative vote is also due to my opposition to the inclusion of the many exemptions for derivative contracts and other financial contracts which are dangerous to the stability of the financial system.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, following the financial crisis, the european union introduced a new regulatory framework to regulate securities markets, regulating financial intermediation operations. this package of rules, known as mifid ii, strengthens investor protection by introducing strict requirements. the rules were due to enter into force on 3 january 2017, but technical difficulties encountered in adapting the electronic data collection networks by linking trading venues, national regulatory authorities and the european securities and markets authority (esma) suggest that the application of this new system should be postponed. i considered that i would vote in favour of the directive as i agree that the challenges posed by the technical implementation of the reform are such that the data needed for the functioning of the system cannot be effectively collected and therefore neither the competent authorities nor the market operators would be in a position to apply the new rules on 3 january 2017. this would end up creating a situation of legal uncertainty which could be detrimental to the development of the market.
in writing. ‒ i considered it important to vote in favour of the measure as regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu set requirements for the authorisation and exercise of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers, harmonise the regime of position limits on commodity derivatives in order to improve transparency, promote orderly conditions for price formation and prevent market abuse, and improve the supervision of financial markets through the harmonisation of administrative penalties. investment firms often carry out, on their own initiative or on behalf of their clients, transactions in derivative contracts and other financial instruments or activities involving several interconnected linked transactions. such a package transaction allows investment firms and their clients to better manage risk, as the price of each element of the package transaction reflects the overall risk profile of the package, rather than the current market price of each element. it is therefore appropriate to specify for the purposes of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 the specific circumstances in which pre-trade transparency should not apply to bundles of transactions or to any single element of such transactions.
in writing. ‒ when it comes to sensitive areas such as finance, where transparency is key and errors have enormous costs, caution is required. in this particular case, i voted in favour of this regulation because, given the current state of technology, it makes perfect sense to wait a few months to have a secure computer system instead of completing everything in a hurry and taking risks on the backs of savers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the markets in financial instruments regulation because it introduces a new regulatory framework which will become effective with the creation of data collection infrastructures. the regulation ensures greater transparency of financial instruments by providing that trading venues and systematic internalisers provide competent authorities with financial instrument reference data that describe in a uniform manner the characteristics of each financial instrument within the scope of the regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution because the amendment of the transposition date is essential and urgent in order to enable the european authority esma and the national authorities to complete the construction of the data collection infrastructure, avoiding the risks of market disturbances and improving the competitiveness of financial markets. however, i believe that in future we should be more careful and cautious in setting the time-frame for the entry into force of the regulations, because postponing a date of transposition could have a negative impact on the guarantee of legal certainty, especially in a sensitive and closely monitored area such as the markets for financial instruments. investors and savers need to find a sound financial environment, free from uncertainties, in which to develop their potential. at the same time, member states must be able to transpose directives in a linear manner, without additional costs and procedural uncertainties. it is our task as co-legislators to ensure that this is so by putting the commission's departments in the best possible position to do their job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i consider it appropriate to extend the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets and financial instruments, as well as the extension of the application of the entire sectoral regulatory framework, as, according to esma's explicit indication, the infrastructure designed for the efficient and harmonised collection of financial instruments reference data cannot be completed before january 2018. the extension ensures legal certainty and avoids potential market distortions.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because i am sceptical about the application of supervisory instruments which have proved insufficient to prevent speculation and dominant positions.
in writing. the main objectives of the directive are to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services. these are important principles, especially in times of serious crisis, and we therefore support the speedy conduct of negotiations in order to provide concrete answers and avoid market abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of securities regulation in the european union and on central securities depositories, as regards certain dates. given the complexity of the new regulatory framework and the need for a particularly high number of delegated and implementing acts, this date shift is necessary. therefore, in view of the existence of exceptional circumstances, in order to allow esma, the national competent authorities and stakeholders to complete the operational implementation, i am in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the date of application of regulations (eu) 600/2014, (eu) 596/2014 and (eu) 909/2014 because, although the current rule allows for the application of regulation (eu) 600/2014 for as long as 30 months to allow interested parties to equip themselves with the necessary data infrastructures, the complexity of the data in question does not allow member states to meet the required time limits. given the importance of this information, i agree with the honourable member's proposal to change the dates previously set. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on the improvement of securities regulation in the european union. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid potential market disturbances, it is necessary to take urgent action to extend the date of application of the entire regulatory framework, including all delegated and implementing acts. the extension will be for 12 months, thus moving the date of application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 to 3 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ the regulations and the directive that mr ferber's proposal seeks to amend are key elements of the legislation adopted in the wake of the financial crisis and concern securities markets, securities brokers and trading venues. this new regulatory framework is very complex, and it was originally intended to be implemented within a very long period of 30 months from the date of entry into force of the regulation. however, the complexity of this new regulatory framework means that the infrastructure for data collection and processing will not be operational by january 2017 as originally planned. for this reason, i voted in favour of the proposal to extend the date of implementation of the entire regulatory framework, including all delegated acts. i believe that this new regulatory framework, although very complex, represents an important milestone in the field of investment. the framework includes measures such as 'package transactions' which allow investment firms and their clients to better manage risks, as the price of each element of the package reflects the overall risk of the package and not the market price of each element.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure effective enforcement of the laws and at the same time to avoid potential market disturbances, this proposal for a regulation suggests to extend by 12 months, until 3 january 2018, the date of application of regulation 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council relating to financial instruments and market abuse. in order to prevent malfunctions in the collection of data by the competent authorities, i have decided to vote in favour of extending the whole regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report with the objective of extending the entry into force of mifid and mifir from 3 january 2017 to 3 january 2018, since esma and the european commission have not provided the regulatory technical standards and delegated acts within the deadline set by the legislation. in addition, this report provided a good opportunity to submit a further amendment to the text of the mifid/mifir. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. firstly, we think that the one-year extension is unreasonable, since it is mainly due to the inefficiency of the eu institutions in producing second-level acts. secondly, we strongly oppose the inclusion of exemptions for hft contracts given their high riskiness because this could undermine the security of the financial system. that is why we voted against it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the procedure for appointing the members of the court of auditors is governed by article 286 tfeu. according to the article, those who have collaborated with supervisory institutions and who have the required guarantees of independence are eligible. the council shall adopt the list of members after consulting parliament, without binding decision. in short, it is a purely political procedure, without any real democratic control by the parliamentary body. for these reasons i voted against. i do not only think that the procedure is completely inappropriate, but above all there is a strong gender imbalance in the composition of the court, which the member states should resolve as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion, parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and, following the instructions of my political group, the s&ds, i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of advocate rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors because i consider him to be a high profile person. currently minister of finance of the republic of lithuania (a role which he also held from 2007 to 2008), he has held several senior positions in the public sector, gaining extensive experience in the financial sector. as minister of finance, he played an active role in creating a more efficient institutional framework for the management of eu funds 2007-2013. from 2004 to 2006 he was deputy minister of health and in 2003 deputy minister of social security and labour. the hearing in the committee on transport and tourism gave parliament the opportunity to confirm its seriousness and competence. he was casual and prepared, and spoke english and german well. his knowledge of russian and polish and a first degree in chemistry followed by scientific studies in the field of quantum chemistry complete his profile.
in writing. - i did not support the appointment of rimantas sadzlus as a member of the court of auditors. pursuant to article 286 tfeu, the members of the court of auditors should be chosen from among persons whose independence can be adequately guaranteed. rimantas sadzius has a purely political background, having held several ministerial posts in lithuania. on the basis of this, i did not consider it appropriate to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because, after examining your cv and your work history, i believe you are the right person for this prestigious position.
in writing. ‒ the nomination of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors was successfully assessed by the committee on budgetary control. i congratulate rimantas šadžius on his appointment and wish him a successful career.
in writing. with regard to the appointment of a member of the court of auditors, and taking into account the reference to article 286 tfeu, it is stated that the appointment of the said members must be made on the basis of a choice to be made between persons who are or have been members, in the home states, of the external audit institutions or who possess a specific qualification for that function. the nomination of mr rimantas sadzius as a member of the court of auditors, proposed by the council, was considered valid following a thorough analysis of the candidate's credentials and personal background.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the appointment of mr rimantas sadzius as a member of the court of auditors for a six-year term. after consulting the european parliament, the impression was positive.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the committee on budgetary control's assessments, which took account of both the candidate's cv and his answers during a hearing, i voted in favour of appointing mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a collegiate body composed of 28 members, one from each member state. the members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. i welcome the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors and wish him well in his work, with the hope that he will be able to play his role with the utmost independence and transparency in the general interest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ a policy coherence report on development is produced every two years to assess progress, improve strategies and give further impetus to sustainable development. the report covers a number of themes, such as security, trade, finance, migration and food security. following extensive consultation with ngos, calls were made for improved cooperation, particularly in the form of bilateral agreements between the eu and third countries, with a focus on the need to ensure greater transparency and control, particularly with regard to european investment in developing countries. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2016, more than 1.5 billion people were living in poverty, suffering from deprivation in health, education and living standards. a large proportion of them are women. the adoption by the united nations of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development was a milestone in the definition of strategic objectives to combat this and other serious problems that threaten our planet. the dan preda report, which i supported with my vote today, not only evaluates the progress made on policy coherence for development, but also makes concrete proposals for the eu to take a leading role in promoting a universal agenda for sps. the text focuses on a number of priority areas of intervention: the commission has also been active in the field of migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change and gender, but the most important aspect is the definition of the link between security and development. the eu should implement the sps as part of the union's foreign policy. only by creating an effective link between humanitarian aid, development cooperation and disaster resilience will a more flexible and effective response to growing global needs be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the european union's development policies lack effectiveness and coherence, and this report does not present any acceptable proposal to break the deadlock of these failed policies. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european union must act in a coordinated and coherent way in its development policies, whether they are directed at territories within the union or to territories outside it. policy coherence presupposes an agreement on values and principles to which to conform and converge. governance and coordination at different levels and scales are therefore essential to promote dialogue and foster agreement and political commitment by each institution in transforming its policies, integrating, implementing and monitoring them as intended, in a constant process of review and renewal. we cannot risk promoting the values of democracy, respect for human rights and the fight against poverty and then implementing policies or trade agreements with third countries in certain areas which indirectly create the conditions for the breach or non-fulfilment of commitments. in particular, attention must be paid in the coming years to partnership and cooperation agreements with non-democratic developing countries where, without a proper procedure for reporting on aid provided, there is a risk of unintentionally strengthening the darkest parts of the same countries we would like to help.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which calls on the commission to give coherence to development policies (cps). although the lisbon treaty provides for this strategy, there is still no common interpretation. i share the view of the report that it advocates a human rights approach, because it would give a better understanding of policy coherence for development. in fact, without addressing the obstacles to the realization of rights, there can be no progress towards sustainable development and poverty eradication. the main tool for the implementation of the sgp is impact assessments, but more investment is needed from the european union, as studies are currently scarce and do not adequately address the potential impact on developing countries. the report calls for future impact assessments to focus on identifying inconsistencies and developing appropriate mechanisms to monitor and control progress on cps, including proposals on how to avoid and address inconsistencies between policies.
in writing. ‒ the biannual report on policy coherence for development, drawn up by the deve committee, takes stock of the progress reported by the european commission in this area. the report also seeks to identify ways of improving the existing european coherence mechanisms and to stimulate debate on this concept at union level. the amendments tabled by the five star movement, calling for greater coordination in bilateral agreements between member states and third countries and for greater transparency and control over european companies' investments in the various developing countries, were largely incorporated in the compromises. the report is therefore highly acceptable and i voted in favour of it in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ policies for the development of third countries play a key role in the work of the european union, which is the leading donor on the international scene. however, in order to make action in these countries more effective, there needs to be a better understanding of policy coherence for development (cps). the european union and the oecd were among the first to bring the issue to the attention of major international actors such as the united states, japan and the brics countries in order to share the concept of cps needed to define policies and intervention actions. the migration crisis can be an important moment in the implementation of european development policy and in addressing more fully the root causes of the phenomenon: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that policy coherence must be the basis for action by the eu and other international actors towards third countries.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure as the council conclusions on the ec's fifth biennial report, adopted in october 2015, underline that the cps will be an important part of the eu's contribution to achieving the broader objective of policy coherence for sustainable development (pcsd). in addition to taking stock of the progress reported by the european commission and identifying areas for improving existing european cps mechanisms, the report aims to give impetus to the debate on the future of this concept at eu level. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development represents a unique opportunity to address the interrelated challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development. the sps remains a political and economic imperative for the european union.
in writing. ‒ the current european development framework does not have the necessary mechanisms to prevent and remedy inconsistencies arising from the policies pursued by the european union. i agree with calling for a european-level debate on the coherence of development policies (cps) so that they are fully integrated into the decision-making process of the european union. i also believe that institutional coordination must be improved so that the member states can incorporate the spc into a legally binding act and draw up an action plan to this end.
in writing. ‒ policy coherence for development is an important contribution of the european union to the implementation of sustainable development policies. however, consideration should be given to how this european commitment can be realised through the adoption of far-reaching measures and synergies between union development and non-development policies. the use of existing instruments needs to be optimised in order to ensure the efficient and systematic implementation of policy coherence for development. i voted in favour of the report because it is a useful tool for raising awareness of the subject of the cfsp, and i hope that the debate on the cfsp will be brought to fruition in the future.
in writing. ‒ the european union must ensure the consistency of its development policies (cps), working to ensure that there are strong synergies between development objectives and other european policies. the report we are debating today is aimed at improving the coherence of european development policies, a subject which has been the subject of frequent debate. the union's commitment to policy coherence for development is mainly articulated around issues such as trade, environment, climate change, security, agriculture, social dimension, employment, decent work, migration and energy. europe must improve coherence at regional, national and european levels and increase its potential in the production and use of knowledge to provide concrete solutions to the challenges it faces today. we have tabled several amendments to this report and have had discussions with a number of ngos. we are looking forward to greater consistency in bilateral agreements with third countries. i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the lisbon treaty included for the first time a legal obligation to pursue policy coherence for development, further strengthening it between the eu's internal and external policies. the adoption of the 2030 agenda introduces a single set of development goals, going beyond the donor-recipient model. the eu should therefore take a leading role in promoting a universal agenda that shifts the concept towards sustainable development. the report introduces important innovations which should be supported, including a closer link between development policies and the sustainable development goals and greater involvement of local and regional governments and civil society organisations. in particular, i am very much in favour of ex ante impact assessments, which can become an important tool in defining strategies and approaches for the future of migrants and refugees and in trying to build mechanisms that can limit or stem the recurrence of humanitarian crises at source.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, which does not bring about any substantial changes to the deadlock in the union's development policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, as i believe it is essential to open a debate on this issue within the european council in order to foster an interinstitutional debate both at european and member state level. as will be recalled, the lisbon treaty requires that any legal obligation assumed at international level in the context of the union's objectives is consistent with development policies (cps). however, today more than ever it is necessary to move beyond this paradigm, as the adoption of the 2030 agenda envisages establishing a single and universal set of objectives and thus moving beyond the donor-recipient paradigm on which the union's development policy has been based, to promote a development policy coherence agenda based on sustainable development. i strongly supported the s&d group's view that there is a strong link between the coherence of eu development policies and the sustainable development goals (sdgs), and that local and regional authorities and organised civil society should be involved in a substantial way. only greater coherence between eu policies will allow the sdgs of the 2030 agenda to be achieved and thus poverty eradication in the developing countries to be achieved once and for all.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report on policy coherence for development, which has become essential to create synergies between development cooperation and other policies to enhance the action that the union and the commission are already taking, mainly through the funds and cohesion policy. on this front, a more pragmatic and timely approach is needed to address not only the objectives already outlined in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, but above all the challenges that everyday life poses to us today. i am referring first of all to the question of migration, the exodus of thousands of people from the south to the north in search of peace and rights. the refugee crisis and the destabilisation of the eu's neighbourhood are challenging the very foundations of the eu itself, and i, as an italian and a sicilian, live with this phenomenon on a daily basis. i believe that there is an urgent need to find a system to harmonize and strengthen community efforts in the areas of reception and migration policies, in addition to the five priority areas already identified (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development (pdc). the cfsp is a key element of the eu's contribution to achieving the goal of policy coherence for sustainable development, as well as contributing to the consolidation of the rule of law and impartial institutions. policy coherence for development is one of the european union's primary objectives in order to increase the effectiveness of its development aid and has become a necessary tool for seeking synergies between development cooperation and other policies and for correcting existing inconsistencies. for cps to become international and not just a european concept, more efforts are needed from the eu, taking the lead in promoting a universal agenda for cps and working towards a common approach to make the concept universal.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the 2015 report on policy coherence for development. in line with the commitments made when the lisbon treaty was adopted, the european union is moving towards the convergence of community rules through a set of policies which are consistent with each other. the report presented today sets out the progress of the work done so far to bring about the convergence of european policies, of the organisational mechanisms in the union and of europe's development objectives. in this context, the progress made by the european union in policy coherence in 12 areas is highlighted: trade, environment, climate change, security, agriculture, fisheries, the social dimension of globalisation and employment, migration, research, the information society, transport and energy. in particular, in the area of trade, the union aims to promote more effectively the conclusion of economic and trade partnership agreements, as well as the system of generalised preferences (so-called gsp+) and trade-related measures, with a view to initiating a process of economic integration with developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr preda's proposal, as i share the need for greater synergy between the objectives of sustainable development and the union's policies. in my view, policy coherence for development is essential to pursue the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and therefore i believe that greater harmonisation between the sps and the sdgs is appropriate. similarly, bringing sps into the global debate and promoting the involvement of other key actors can effectively contribute to the achievement of development goals. i am convinced that a greater awareness of coherence for development policies both at european and national level is of priority importance, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union should do much more to ensure greater coherence and synergy in its development policies, both horizontally across sectors such as trade, agriculture and immigration, and vertically across global, regional and national levels. it should also work to ensure that other major players on the international scene (the usa, japan and the brics countries) adopt a similar strategy, to make the implementation of the sustainable development goals truly possible. the lisbon treaty provides for the obligation to pursue policy coherence for development (pcd) and to strengthen the objective of coherence between the union's internal and external policies. today there is a growing consensus that we need to go even further than this paradigm. the adoption of the 2030 agenda sets out a single, universal set of development goals, applicable to all, which goes beyond the donor-recipient scheme. the eu should therefore take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda, aimed at achieving sustainable development. a specific european council meeting on the cfp, before the publication of the next commission report in 2017, would make a significant contribution to raising awareness of the importance of the cfp and to better defining the responsibilities of the different actors involved.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the sustainable development goals, 2015 was a milestone in the evolution of csp (policy coherence for development). the sustainable development goals have called for a more integrated approach to policy-making, with a greater focus on coherence. the achievement of the cps will thus have a very decisive impact on the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. cps, however, is not yet widely used internationally, but remains a purely european concept. the eu and the oecd (organization for economic cooperation and development) are the forerunners of the sps debate. in an increasingly interconnected world, a common approach is needed to make this concept more universal. therefore, i believe that parliament should call for an eu-level debate on cps in the framework of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, to understand how cps can fit into the more universal concept of cpss (policy coherence for sustainable development). that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's role is increasingly important in advancing the concept of policy coherence for development (pcd), a primary objective of the european union and a key element of the united nations' 2030 agenda. the report presented in this house on this subject aims to take stock of the progress made by the european commission in the field of development policies. it also identifies areas where existing cps mechanisms can be improved and strengthened. i have decided to vote in favour of the text as i agree with the call for a union active in the field of the cfsp. europe has always been a key player in development and aid to developing third countries. i also agree with the rapporteur's call for the commission to draw attention to inconsistencies and costs in the area of cps and to develop appropriate tools to monitor progress in this area in order to better assess the impact of european policies on development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a step in the right direction, namely an alliance for food and nutrition, for a totally sustainable agriculture, which i believe should be the aim of this europe which has in its typical products, in its typical products, above all in this chain which we have described today, one of its extraordinary strengths and potential.
in writing. ‒ the g8 in may 2012 launched the new alliance for food security and nutrition, a public-private partnership, with the aim of stimulating private investment in sub-saharan agriculture. the eu has so far invested eur 1.2 billion in particular in cooperation with the territories of malawi and côte d'ivoire. the report presented, however, highlights a number of criticisms of the new alliance, which it considers will not bring about a real improvement in the living conditions of millions of farming and small-scale farming families. in view of these considerations, the eu is urged to review its participation in the alliance. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ one in four people in sub-saharan africa suffers from malnutrition, a condition that causes the death of about half of children under five. this is a very serious situation, and the eu has decided to respond by launching the new alliance for food security and nutrition with the g8 in 2012. this project aims to strengthen food security and nutrition, helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to escape poverty by 2020, by making changes to the legislation of the countries involved in the field of seeds, land and foreign investment. i have supported the heubuch report because i believe it highlights the risks associated with the application of nafsn, particularly for small producers and women. the text expresses the need to make the cooperation frameworks for the different countries monitorable and accessible, including performance indicators and requiring private companies to publish annual reports. the union's priority must be to protect family farms and smallholders, who are largely excluded from the negotiations, and to avoid the adoption of models based on large-scale industrial production, which have negative consequences for health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition is well-articulated and contains no problematic passages. that is why i wanted to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn), established in 2012, aims to innovate, develop and modernise african agriculture by unlocking major investment through a broad public-private partnership. the agreed policies are aimed at overcoming the limitations and risks of the african agricultural system, creating a more business-friendly environment, easier and controlled access to land and a more sustainable use of resources, with the aim of combating food and nutritional poverty. the strategy has, however, revealed some gaps which need to be filled, and in particular calls for a closer involvement of the local economy and small farmers in investment choices. greater transparency on public-private partnerships is equally essential, as is a commitment to empowering businesses to respect human rights, land rights, environmental sustainability and gender equality. i therefore agree with mrs heubuch's report.
in writing. ‒ with a growing and continuously growing population, africa needs adequate investment in agriculture to meet the growing demand for food. in this context, the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa, drawn up within the g8, could be an interesting opportunity to mobilise private investment in african agriculture, thus contributing to the improvement of living conditions and nutrition of the population. this particular device, however, was developed on an ecologically and socially unsustainable model, that of the asian "green revolution" of the 1960s and 1970s, based on dependence on fertilisers, intensive crops for export, biotechnology and long distribution channels. a production model, the product of outdated developmental logics, which are ill-suited to the culture, needs and reality of the territory in question. a model whose implementation is expressed in paternalistic logics, the subject of widespread criticism even by important figures, such as the united nations special rapporteur on the right to food, which leave little room for comparison with small owners and civil society and which, for these reasons, needs to be deeply reconsidered and updated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it raises constructive criticisms of the way in which the objectives of the public-private partnership, known as the 'new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa', are being achieved. it is right to invest in agriculture in sub-saharan africa to improve the food security of the african population, but we must avoid reproducing a model based on monocultures, biotechnology, dependence on fertilisers and long distribution channels. it is necessary to review the country cooperation frameworks with a view to improving contractual arrangements between local buyers and suppliers and to provide a favourable legal framework in terms of price agreements, respect for women's rights, the establishment of appropriate dispute resolution mechanisms and the strengthening of farmers' organisations to improve their negotiating position in agricultural contracts. it is the responsibility of the union and the member states to ensure that the public-private partnership in question becomes a genuine instrument of support for family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, with the aim of combating poverty and food and nutrition insecurity.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition is a partnership launched in 2012 by the g8 with the aim of stimulating private investment in agriculture in sub-saharan africa. the eu is participating in the new alliance for eur 1.2 billion, leading the cooperation frameworks with malawi and côte d'ivoire. the report on this initiative, drawn up by the deve committee, has rightly highlighted the critical and controversial aspects of this initiative and i have therefore voted in favour of adopting this text. indeed, the new alliance is highly criticized by ngos and civil society as it seems to only promote the entry of corporate agribusiness led by multinationals such as monsanto, cargill and unilever.
in writing. ‒ i felt i voted in favour after examining that the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn), launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8, is a broad public-private partnership aimed at mobilising private investment in agriculture, with the aim of improving food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. each participating african country has adopted a country cooperation framework (ccf) which sets out the commitments of each party involved. these commitments relate to legislative reforms in the respective african countries. the eu and the member states have a key role to play in ensuring that nafsn becomes a genuine tool to support family farming and local economies in sub-saharan africa, with the aim of combating poverty and food and nutrition insecurity. the rapporteur believes that donors and national governments should instead invest in a model of agriculture that is sustainable, favourable to smallholders and women, and able to exploit the potential of national and regional markets in a way that benefits smallholders and provides consumers with quality food at affordable prices.
in writing. ‒ the issue of agriculture in sub-saharan africa is a very sensitive one. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa was launched years ago, with the aim of improving food security and nutrition through private investment. however, the main private actors in this area are multinational corporations that benefit from a dominant market position to the detriment of poorer communities. for this reason i believe that the european union must suspend its current support for this alliance in order to focus on the local private sector, particularly family farmers and smallholders, so that they can be lifted out of poverty. in addition, this would lead to better exploitation of the potential of national markets by farmers. these are the reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa aims to strengthen these two sectors, helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to lift themselves out of poverty by 2020. over the past three decades, small-scale agriculture has been neglected in africa, while low-income countries have become more dependent on food imports, making them vulnerable to price fluctuations on international markets. private investment under the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa has reached more than 8.2 million smallholder farmers and created more than 21 000 jobs, more than half of which were for women. the transparency of all financing of private sector enterprises must be ensured and public aid must comply with the principles of development effectiveness. the fight against poverty in africa is one of the greatest challenges we have to face. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa aims to end poverty for 50 million people in sub-saharan africa by 2020, in line with the sustainable development goals. poverty is closely linked to food insecurity and malnutrition. the new alliance aims to promote inclusive and sustainable growth based on local and small-scale agriculture, overcoming the structural weaknesses of the various country cooperation frameworks and export-oriented agricultural investment policies characterised by the exclusion of food insecure social groups from decision-making processes. eu member states, as major donors of development aid and on behalf of their trade relations with the african continent, have a key role to play in supporting and promoting local businesses and stakeholders in africa. by voting in favour, i intend to support the actions envisaged by the new alliance on sustainable family farming, access to land and financing for agricultural investment in africa. in particular, i believe that the european union can make a major contribution to the development of transparent international governance that supports african businesses, governments and farmers in reducing poverty and hunger.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which seeks to protect the rights of the peoples living in africa and which positively puts the role of the eu member states at stake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the new alliance for food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, a g8 initiative launched in 2012 and supported by the eu to develop partnership with local businesses, because i believe it is necessary for the initiative to integrate environmental protection measures and above all safeguards against land grabbing. the confirmation for the next few years goes through a review process that cannot fail to take into account transparency and governance, the need to support sustainable agriculture, able to achieve a fundamental objective: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget. this can only happen if this new alliance focuses on sustainable, local, human-scale food production, if private land grabbing, often unable to meet local needs, is stopped. the european parliament calls for a change of pace and the link between investment policies in agriculture and local development. finally, i strongly supported the need for greater involvement of smallholders who have been excluded from the negotiations, greater transparency, the need for future investment to be subject to a preventive impact assessment, and robust regulation and monitoring of public-private partnerships.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn), launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8, is a broad public-private partnership aimed at mobilising private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. investment in agriculture is a priority for these countries. however, we share the fear, shared by some of our colleagues, that the mistakes of the past will be repeated. that is why i support this report, to ensure that european investors respect and encourage the other partners in the alliance to respect the rights of local communities and the needs of small farms, by taking a human rights-based approach within the framework of cooperation, including maintaining safeguards for environmental, social, land, labour and human rights and the highest standards of transparency in their investment plans. in particular, i welcome the call for the european union to promote, in agreement with the united nations, the binding adoption by all countries of the milan charter and the commitments contained therein and the milan urban food policy pact.
in writing. today we are voting on a report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition. it aims to secure private investment in agriculture, with the aim of improving food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa, although there are many problems. for this reason, each african country has adopted a cooperation framework (ccf) which determines the commitments undertaken by the parties concerned with regard to their various legislative reforms. many improvements are possible, but this certainly presents a good basis for work, to allow better living conditions and greater guarantees of food security. i therefore believe that the agricultural sector is of fundamental importance to our country and that it represents the world reference for high quality products, which is why innovation in agricultural management must be supported and encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition. the primary aim of the new alliance is to accelerate responsible investment in african agriculture and lift 50 million people out of poverty, hunger and malnutrition, with a focus on actions that increase private investment, and to open up africa's natural resources and markets to multinational companies. over the past 30 years, small-scale agriculture has been neglected in africa, thus favoring large-scale, highly capitalised and mechanised forms of production. family farms and smallholders can provide diversified products and increase food production in a sustainable way. the eu and member states therefore need to cooperate more, by holding businesses accountable for human rights, ensuring that member states comply with extraterritorial obligations, supporting and promoting african businesses, and removing tariff barriers that discourage african countries.
in writing. ‒ given the original objectives of the new alliance for food security in africa in favour of african agricultural development and support for the fight against malnutrition, given that, to date, the measures implemented seem to have facilitated ppps and consequently larger agricultural enterprises, to the detriment of small family-run enterprises, given that attitudes respecting human rights and aimed at combating social exclusion, although essential, are still not widespread, and finally, given that the nafsn, as implemented, does not reflect the principles and values that encouraged its birth, although i do not share some points of the proposal, i believe that it should be voted on positively overall. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is a broad public-private partnership that aims to mobilise private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. while the overall objective of nafsn is more than valid, there are several shortcomings, which are highlighted in this report. the most obvious problems are: the need to move towards sustainable forms of agricultural production and support farmers' seed systems; the risks associated with the emergence of a market in securities; the commission has also been active in the fight against malnutrition and in the recognition of women's rights. agricultural investment policies should therefore be conditional on the development of the local economy and small producers. cooperation projects should be fully transparent and subject to strict control mechanisms, which also provide for remedies for the local populations concerned. the fao guidelines on responsible land, fisheries and forest management must be applied to each project. other basic principles must be the fight against land grabbing and, finally, the responsibility of contractors with regard to human rights and social, environmental and labour standards.
in writing. ‒ launched in 2012, the nafsn (new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa) aims to leverage financial support from donor countries to help large companies invest in african agriculture. in return, the ten participating sub-saharan african states are required to amend their legislation on land, seeds and foreign investment. however, when the country cooperation frameworks were being drawn up, consultation of smallholders was minimal, despite the fact that they should be the final beneficiaries of the nafsn. for this, nafsn has been the subject of severe criticism. it is believed that nafsn risks facilitating land grabbing and further marginalizing smallholder farmers and women, while supporting unsustainable agriculture. agricultural investment policies aim to support local economic development, enabling african governments to invest in local food systems to boost rural economies, ensure decent jobs and the right to work. to identify the best development goals, the eu should address some shortcomings, including transparency and governance. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the new alliance for food security and nutrition (new alliance) is a broad public-private partnership launched in 2012 by the g8 with the aim of stimulating private investment in agriculture in sub-saharan africa. in fact, the new alliance ends up making the lives of millions of local farmer families and smallholders worse by promoting the entry of agribusiness by multinationals. some studies show that the implementation of this programme puts more than 60% of jobs at risk and that the ecosystem of these countries is also threatened, as they would be invaded by gmos and fertilisers. the eu is committed to the new alliance for eur 1.2 billion and leads the cooperation frameworks with malawi and côte d'ivoire. in both countries, criticism has been levelled at the lack of transparency and the lack of information available to the local population. this report, for which i voted in favour, calls on the european commission to invest only in sustainable projects and to encourage local farms. we in the m5s do not want genetic engineering projects to be funded with taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ finance needs effective controls and international accounting standards (ifrs). to this end, the international accounting standards board (iasb) was established to standardize the definitions used in the financial world. however, their effectiveness is called into question by their high complexity and by recent financial scandals. i cannot share certain positions, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the development of high-quality, globally applicable accounting principles is an important factor in improving competition and removing barriers to investment on a global scale. while on the whole it appears that those rules have promoted the development of a single capital market in the union, strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy, the financial crisis has demonstrated the need to review and improve those financial reporting principles. the eu has delegated their definition to an independent body, the international accounting standards board, but it is necessary that it has an influence on all stages of their development. the stolojan report, which i supported, stresses the need to formulate a common european position on this matter and at the same time underlines the important developments, promoted by the commission, in the process of reforming the european financial reporting advisory group which already performs important functions in the field of evaluating, qualitatively and quantitatively, the impact of financial reporting principles. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is involved in the early stages of the approval procedure, following the path already taken by the econ committee with the creation of the standing ifrs team.
in writing. ‒ the stolojan report is biased and contains strong critical elements that i do not share, in particular the call for the validation of a new objective for european financial governance dropped from above on the member states. that is why i did not want to support the text under vote.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the creation of harmonised rules on the application of high-quality accounting principles to financial reporting is an essential requirement for regulating competition and an effective method for removing obstacles to investment on a global scale. i am also convinced that such a corrective, consistent with the field of prudential regulation, is most necessary in times of financial crisis. the model of financial reporting principles should therefore be strengthened in the development of a capital markets union to the extent that they inform the internal governance rules of financial institutions. it should be noted that the increase in financial responsibility has facilitated the single market and the competitiveness of the economy, allowing businesses to attract capital and investment.
in writing. ‒ the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is one of the five economic commissions reporting to the united nations economic and social council (ecosoc). this agreement shall promote regulatory cooperation at international level in this field by promoting technological harmonisation. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that the application of international financial reporting principles in the european union has had a positive effect in helping to strengthen the single market and its competitiveness. i recognise the importance of having principles that apply globally in order to facilitate the internationalisation of investment. they also agree to delegate the development of these international financial accounting standards to a private body, the international accounting standards board, so that the board can develop, from within its competence in this field, consistent and globally applicable financial reporting standards.
in writing. ‒ international accounting standards are an important part of the eu regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services, also given their interaction with other eu regulatory acts in the field of financial services, such as the field of prudential regulation. the application of these principles at world level can improve competition and remove barriers to investment on a global scale. i therefore voted in favour of the report, which stresses that accounting principles must be adopted in order to develop a single capital market in the european union, within the framework of the project of a capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and international auditing standards (isa) are an essential component for the effective functioning of the internal market and capital markets. the european parliament resolution examines how the eu's influence within the international accounting standards board should be increased and how to reform the process of developing international financial reporting standards (ifrs). i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that international accounting standards should promote transparency for investors and businesses by improving international comparability and the quality of financial reporting, protect investment, enable investors and other market participants to make informed economic decisions and thereby influence the behaviour of the actors in the financed markets and the stability of those markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the development of high-quality, globally applicable accounting principles can lead to an improvement in competition by helping to remove barriers to investment on a global scale. the report also stresses the need for the bodies responsible for drawing up accounting principles to strike the right balance between the requirements of complex financial markets and instruments and the need for high quality, transparent and comparable global principles.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, which in my view is unclear and will not lead to certain and defined objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's non-legislative resolution on the assessment of ias/ifrs accounting principles, the activities of the iasb (the international accounting standards foundation) and the activities of efrag (the high-level advisory group on financial reporting) because i shared the spirit behind this first report from parliament incorporating internationally shared standards (iasb) into european law and calling for the full implementation of the recommendations contained in the report drawn up by the belgian maystadt-based working group on the governance of efrag. international accounting standards are fundamental to the proper functioning of financial markets and are indispensable for the communication of financial information to investors, businesses and supervisors. hence the need to arrive at common or equivalent rules on the budgets of financial institutions at international level. i therefore supported the s&d group's position that international accounting standards should not undermine the eu's financial stability but should help sustainable growth and should be considered as public goods. i also believe that greater control and transparency are particularly important to prevent conflicts of interest. the eu must have more influence at international level. this is the most significant message that the european parliament has ever addressed to efrag.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards (ias) and the activities of the international financial reporting standards foundation (ifrs), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob). it remains of paramount importance to consider the false balance sheet of companies as a threat to economic and financial stability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. transparency and positive reforms are intended to improve a relevant reality such as that of international accounting standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it underlines the role of international accounting standards in european financial services legislation. in the present economic and financial context, however, a revision of these principles, in the sense of their modernisation and adaptation, is necessary. the european union therefore has an important role to play in this process. the european parliament is also called upon to play a more active role in the process of adopting international financial reporting standards. i am convinced that these amendments are useful and i voted in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled 'evaluation of international accounting standards'. these principles, known as isas and ifrss, are an essential component of the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets. they constitute an important legal and regulatory framework for the european union in the field of financial services. these principles can be understood as a public good, serving the common interest and not only the interests of investors, financiers and creditors. once again we see the eu's efforts to create a financial environment that is as stable and as risk-free as possible. european policies aim to create a climate of confidence and stability that can stimulate investment. the european commission has given a major boost to this by drawing up the juncker plan, whose outcome, one year after its entry into force, can be described as entirely positive.
in writing. ‒ we live in a globalised world today, where companies are free to move to every continent to look for new business. this economic scenario, however, requires that there be internationally recognised accounting principles in order to prevent fraud or wrongdoing. the own-initiative report adopted today recognises that the balance between the mandatory scope of the international accounting standards (ias) regulation and the possibility for member states to benefit from the use of ifrs (international financial reporting standards foundation) at national level must ensure appropriate subsidiarity and proportionality. this report also assesses the activities of the ifrs foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob) and addresses general issues about the process of adopting ifrs accounting principles in european law. international accounting standards are an important part of the eu regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the issue of international accounting standards (ifrss) which form an important part of the regulatory and supervisory framework for financial services. these principles are developed by the international accounting standards board (iasb), a private, independent self-regulatory body that is creating a common language for financial reporting on a global scale. ifrs have been in place for 10 years, but the financial crisis has shown their total inefficiency. this is because these standards are too complex and their management too unclear. other critical points: the principle of compulsory reporting between states is lacking. although they were conceived as global standards, there are some counterparts, such as the usa, which do not use them at all and others, such as the eu, which are not involved in the development process. we do not share the urgency of adopting harmonised accounting principles at eu level because this is aimed at a greater and better development of the single capital market, a project which we strongly oppose as it would increase the financialization of the economy at the expense of the real economy. the report stresses the major shortcomings of this system, but calls for further development of the overall framework. that is why we have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ peace support operations are generally responses to crisis situations, with the particular aim of restoring, maintaining or creating peace. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be given the task of ensuring that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the african continent. in this context, member states and the eu were invited to strengthen cooperation in terms of financial assistance, logistical support and political dialogue. i voted against, however, because, apart from certain provisions which are certainly acceptable, the strong militaristic footprint cannot be supported, particularly with regard to the renewal of european armed forces on the ground.
in writing. ‒ the question of stability in the african and european neighbourhood is increasingly a topical issue. peace support operations, conducted under a united nations mandate, are used precisely in those situations where external support is required to restore, build or maintain peace in contexts where states are dissolving or showing marked fragility. the van orden report, which i supported today with my vote in favour, recognises the need to evaluate and rationalise existing structures, avoiding too many overlapping operations which persist in the same areas. the lack of coordination is also a factor often linked to difficulties in using funds and in the correct use of resources. while the eu's contributions are important, particularly through the african peace facility and african union funding, more ambitious measures are needed. strengthening european military cooperation could increase the efficiency and effectiveness of european contribution to un and african union peacekeeping missions by providing better assistance in training, equipping, logistical support and the definition of rules of engagement of troops.
in writing. ‒ the van orden report, while being sustainable as a whole, contains some criticisms which have led me to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's most important area of freedom, democracy and peace. most developing countries look to europe as a model and a guide. for this reason, as well as for the commercial and diplomatic relations we have with them, we have a moral duty to help them. today, unfortunately, ungoverned spaces are spreading, both in so-called "failed states" and in vast areas of africa and west asia that are beyond the control of state authorities. these spaces allow crime, religious fundamentalism, land and sea banditry to flourish. it is in these spaces that the most vulnerable people are exploited, sold and killed. reducing these gaps means improving people's lives, protecting the most vulnerable and working towards a better society. it is not a waste of resources to help the african union. it's not just fair. making african states more just and secure is a way of making the european union more just and secure. let us remember, as zygmunt bauman says, that "locks and chains cannot tame or weaken the forces that cause emigration; "they may help to conceal problems from the eyesight and mind, but they do not make them go away".
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on peace support operations european union engagement with the united nations and the african union. africa is the most important point of engagement in the difficult peace-building effort. the present action of the united nations must be strengthened and made more effective by the contribution of all the countries with the technical and economic means. the african union must also be progressively strengthened not only to build peace but also to promote economic cooperation and the policies needed for the future of the continent. europe and the international community must be able to meet this challenge not only through peacekeeping missions but also through the necessary conflict prevention action.
in writing. ‒ the report covers multilateral cooperation between the european union, the united nations and the african union to prepare operations to ensure the maintenance of peace in african regions. i have followed the report in the security and defence subcommittee, of which i am a member, and i have identified from the first draft some fundamental problems which have not been overcome even after my amendments to the report were tabled. i am referring in particular to the excessive use of military means in the context of the operations and the use of the concept of 'imposing peace' rather than maintaining it. these are aspects which are highly contrary to my view of the support that the european union should provide for the stability of the african regions and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european union makes support for the activities of the un and the african union a key element of its foreign policy. in the light of a phenomenon as vast and complex as the current migration crisis, it is clear that the european union is called upon once again to play an important role in supporting various african states to create stable, secure and prosperous environments in the long term. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. a strong partnership between the eu, the african union and the un is therefore needed, a genuine policy of support for peace to respond in a comprehensive and coherent way to the needs of the region. security and development are the two things to which we should refer. there can be no stabilisation of the area without cohesion and development policies. we must therefore find alternative sources of funding for the african peace fund if we are to really help the country in the peace process. the security of the union and of the african continent itself will only be achieved if we make africa a political and action priority. i voted in favour of the resolution because it calls for a greater effort by all the international actors in the peace process.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the agreements concluded between the european union, the united nations and the african union have brought many benefits to the african country. a number of activities have been carried out to manage the crisis in africa, to maintain peace and to strengthen international security. however, there is still a lot of work to be done and i am convinced that the eu cannot and should not back down now. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the objective of un peace support operations in africa is to help create stable and secure environments in the long term, where fundamental and civil rights are respected and where economies can be more prosperous. in order to develop effective reconciliation, reconstruction and development programmes, the european union should cooperate more with the un and partner organisations, sharing information, establishing synergies and providing training, equipment and resources to help local actors manage crises on their own. i voted in favour of the report because it aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the un, with a view to mutual information sharing, in the planning of activities and in the conduct of missions.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the need for coordinated external action using diplomacy, security and development tools to restore confidence and to address the challenges posed by wars, internal conflicts, insecurity and the fragility of the african situation. peace operations are increasingly characterized by military missions authorized by the united nations and the report too is too "militaristic". the european union should focus on more appropriate conflict resolution. we recall that the importance of the eu-africa partnership lies primarily in political dialogue to ensure peace and security and not in new military actions. we therefore recommend that there be agreements which can encompass shared objectives for the security of africa and to ensure the protection of civilians and the end of any armed conflict. member states are already engaged in operations in africa. it is time for the european union to bring real added value by supporting dialogue more. for the reasons i have just given, i shall vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ peace support operations are essential to create stable, secure and human rights-respecting environments in the long term, as a prerequisite for economic development and for society as a whole. in this respect, the united nations remains an important reference point as a guarantor of international peace and security, while the eu cooperates with the african union mainly through the african peace fund. the crisis in africa requires a coordinated approach between the various actors involved and across the sectors involved, and my vote in favour is to support the european union's action alongside the un, nato and the african union to increase the sharing of information for crisis management and the organisation of missions. i believe that this resolution takes account of one essential aspect, namely that in an increasingly complex global context a global approach to security and peace is needed, one which makes use not only of military instruments but also of humanitarian, diplomatic, economic and technological ones. all these elements together contribute to the knowledge of the territories and to the fight against common critical factors, primarily terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union's engagement in peacekeeping missions with the united nations and the african union, arguing for a review of the way in which the funds used for these missions are used. the eu must focus on humanitarian interventions that can bring real added value, for example through training and logistical support.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, although i support peace operations, the eu's spending plan is not always effective and transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted to adopt this report on the basis that the eu’s relationship with the african union needs to evolve to counter security and stability threats facing africa and indirectly europe; and to get the best effective results with the resources provided to supporting peace operations on that continent. it is in the interest of the eu that the african continent is as stable as possible and in order for the eu to cooperate with the african union in the most effective manner there are several issues that this report addresses. we need better cooperation and a clearer division of labour with our african partners and to increase our military commitments to un peacekeeping operations and for the eu to facilitate these.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on peace support operations european union engagement with the united nations and the african union, because i believe that strong and shared commitment to providing an effective response to international crisis situations is of paramount importance. the success of these operations, which must necessarily be conducted under the auspices of international organizations, in the first place the united nations, and regional organizations such as the african union, cannot be achieved without the serious involvement and constant commitment of the european union. in the last decade, political instability and insecurity in many parts of the world, especially in africa, have led to the emergence and strengthening of a number of terrorist groups, some of which are already active in somalia, nigeria and the sahel-saharan region. the fragile governments of these countries have been unable to contain the advance of these groups, who are well armed and trained in all kinds of brutality, and have made civilians pay the highest price. i therefore share the need for external peace-keeping and peace-building measures aimed at restoring stability and security in the countries concerned, as well as protecting the civilian population from violence and guaranteeing access to health care and food supplies.
in writing. ‒ as a member of parliament, i support this report not only because peace is one of the founding objectives of the union, but because it is a cornerstone of my country's constitutional charter and a personal value. the african continent has been ravaged by war for decades and the instruments developed by europe to support the work of the united nations and the african union are able to achieve a useful coordination of human, economic and diplomatic forces. there is no doubt that the stability of the african and european neighbourhood would be of great benefit to all our countries. the crises in africa require a coherent global response, which goes beyond simple security aspects, because peace and security are necessary prerequisites for development in a long-term perspective. the african peace fund is an effective instrument whose full use is essential to maintain the close involvement of the institutions and member states of the european union. equally essential is that the african union demonstrate higher levels of efficiency and transparency in the use of funds, focusing on more structural support.
in writing. the eu is conducting peace support operations (psos) that support the un and the african union in ensuring international peace and security. these are operations with a high humanitarian impact, but with complex levels of management, also due to the large number of actors involved in these operations. the need therefore arises to improve communication, planning, mission analysis and coordination between regional and international institutions so that they can act effectively. the ultimate aim is to ensure that the african union is able to maintain a security situation in africa, independent of external aid. in this respect, the eu needs to focus its aid on developing africa's skills and responsibility. given the essential contribution of our union, and with the hope that this will lead to the development of a more equitable and secure society, i vote in favour of the peace support operations report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on peace support operations european union engagement with the united nations and the african union. the aim of this report is to strengthen the european union's contribution to peace support operations and cooperation with the united nations and the african union. the primary purpose of these operations is to create stable and secure environments, to ensure justice, good governance and to strengthen the rule of law and respect for human rights where, as in africa, operations to restore peace and combat terrorism are now ongoing. it is essential that the union, together with its member states, commits itself to increasing support for these states through a comprehensive approach, including not only the use of military or diplomatic instruments but also other factors such as the exchange of information, modern technology, the provision of humanitarian aid and the resumption of political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ considering that peace support operations are conducted to manage crisis situations affecting member countries of internationally recognised organisations, considering that the african union is also a member of these organisations, considering, moreover, that in the face of a changed international context, security is even more necessary today, considering that peace is part of the sustainable development goals as enshrined in the 2030 agenda, considering, in addition, that the european union provides economic assistance to the african union and that its support complements that of other international actors, considering that coordinated actions with the united nations, the african union and other organisations could lead to more effective results, considering, finally, that a greater commitment by the european union and its member states to conflict prevention is indispensable, i consider that i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which provides recommendations for improving eu action in the field of peace support operations in africa, within the framework of un initiatives in cooperation with regional organisations. taking into account the important changes in the security sector in africa and its implications for the eu, the report tries to give a number of indications to the eu on how to help africa to ensure its security. our group has made many contributions to the improvement of the report. in particular, the inclusion of the reference to the necessary transparency of the african peace fund and the need to focus on structural reforms rather than on funding african forces, which is one of the main limitations of the fund as it is managed today. we have stressed the importance of security in the sahel-sahara region and called for alternative sources of funding to the european development fund, which should instead be devoted to development. we have also included a strong reference to the link between security and development, recalling the bêkou fund for central africa, which is a clear example of how the union can promote a comprehensive approach to peace, security and development.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on in the committee on foreign affairs aims to take stock of the situation of the european union's peace support operations in africa. it is worth remembering that the european union is not only an economic entity but also a major player on the international scene. the eu is active in africa in the framework of the csdp, in support of un and african union operations. in line with the position of the ppe group, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the report by mr geoffrey van orden on the european union's cooperation with the united nations and the african union in peace support operations. it is important that neither the member states nor the european union act in isolation. the deployment of numerous un-authorised missions in the same regions, sometimes with different organisations at the local level, can make it difficult to achieve the objectives set. coordinated action is therefore needed to meet the challenges posed by war and internal conflict. the successful management of these complex partnerships, by rationalising existing structures and avoiding duplication of activities or missions, is of paramount importance for the success of operations. in this context, i believe that the strengthening of european military cooperation can increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the eu's contribution to un peacekeeping missions.
in writing. ‒ the report harmonises national rules on unfair trading practices in the food sector. the legislation does not standardise practices and is based on the countermeasures put in place by the national states. the provisions contained therein do not therefore harmonise downwards but look at best regulatory practice. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices develop when, within the framework of trade relations, one party finds itself in a position of strength vis-à-vis the other, creating bargaining imbalances. these are behaviours that are extremely damaging to the union economy as they primarily affect small and medium-sized enterprises, thereby losing their capacity to invest and innovate and not expanding their activities in the single market. the czesak report, which i supported today, considers it essential to define the concept of unfair trading practices as a matter of priority, while at the same time laying down appropriate sanctions for anyone who engages in them. the food chain, according to a survey launched in 2011, appears to be among the most affected by these behaviours and therefore one of the first to be addressed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. only by adopting eu rules that ensure the proper functioning of markets and fair and transparent relationships between all parties involved in the food chain will the european economy and smes be truly protected.
in writing. ‒ the report on unfair trading practices in the food chain highlights some of the most important issues hampering the business of our agri-businesses, such as late payments and the strong downward pressure on the cost of goods. i agree with the text on the concerns of the agri-food sector today, for which i have been fighting constantly, and i therefore wanted to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ small producers and retailers of food products are very often victims of unfair trading practices, due in particular to the asymmetry of financial resources between the parties to the contract, a phenomenon which constitutes a major constraint on the ability of smes to invest, expand and innovate. while many member states have developed measures to address this problem, their interventions have developed in a disorderly and uneven way, resulting in an intricate and partly ineffective regulatory framework. to combat this, the eu should take on the task of developing common rules for all member states, in particular by defining more precisely what behaviour constitutes unfair trading practices and by identifying clear and strict sanctions for those who engage in them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question because it allows the italian and european agri-food industry to keep the issue of unfair trading practices on the political agenda of the european union. the dossier takes a strong and unequivocal stance against the abuses of large organized distribution (ldo). some competition authorities have identified specific practices that transfer excessive risk to suppliers and that could undermine their competitiveness. the report also highlights that the dispute settlement mechanism proposed under a self-regulatory initiative (the so-called 'supply chain initiative') cannot go beyond certain limits as trade imbalances are unlikely to be adequately resolved through free trade between the parties. i therefore agree with the european commission's adoption of a proposal for a framework regulation, which would allow member states to adopt, maintain or amend national legislation based on common principles, including a proper combination of voluntary and regulatory frameworks through the control of an independent public authority with investigative powers and the power to impose dissuasive penalties.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a clear framework in relation to the fight against unfair trading practices. it should be borne in mind that there is still no european list of recognised unfair trading practices, which can only be deduced from the countermeasures taken by the individual member states. the report is certainly to be welcomed, as it proposes upward harmonisation, thus referring to those member states which have achieved higher standards of protection. i fully share the approach just outlined and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. in the world i have in mind, farmers pull healthy, good products out of the ground and traders place them on the market. this division of labour includes fair remuneration for all and an equitable sharing of risks. when, for external reasons, one of the two sides of the value chain acquires disproportionate contractual power, the imbalances affect all the other upstream and downstream actors. we are not talking about illegal behaviour, but it is appropriate to draw a line between what is right and what is wrong even in apparently free contractual relations which are in fact marred by particular dynamics. this report is a first step in that direction and i voted in favour of it, firmly convinced that it is in the interests of producers, consumers and, through them, also of traders themselves.
in writing. ‒ delayed payments, difficulty in accessing the market, unilateral changes in contractual conditions, selling below production cost. these are some of the unfair practices that often characterize the commercial sector of the food chain, with increasing difficulties for farmers and lower quality and information for consumers. this is why the european parliament has asked the commission to define as soon as possible measures to ensure greater transparency in a sector so strategic for the european economy and society, especially in relation to the so-called large retail sector, which often, because of its size and its presence in the territory, ends up penalizing small and medium-sized production and sales activities, also limiting the possibilities and purchasing power of citizens. we therefore expect the commission to come forward with an operational proposal to extend and strengthen existing legislation in order to put quality, equal rights and support for work at the heart of european policy, also in this area.
in writing. ‒ delays in payments and reimbursements, unilateral changes to contractual terms, and cost-shifting to trading partners are practices that are creating many difficulties for operators in the food supply chain. nor are voluntary initiatives taken at national and european level sufficient to encourage market operators to respect the principle of fair trading. the increasing fragmentation of rules in the internal market makes it urgent to have a coherent european framework that clearly defines common principles in the fight against unfair trading practices. i am in favour of this report, which is a first step in building a fair competitive environment between member states, which can allow fair and transparent relations between producers, suppliers and distributors. rebalancing the bargaining power throughout the chain will strengthen competitiveness, contributing to sustainable development and a diversified choice of quality food at affordable prices for all consumers.
in writing. ‒ the czesak report sets out the european parliament's overall position on the growing phenomenon of unfair trading practices in the food chain. it calls on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to stem the many forms of misconduct that are increasingly harming consumers and businesses. i have assured my support for this report precisely because its main objective is to safeguard farms and small and mediumsized enterprises in the agri-food sector, which are often forced to suffer unfair practices such as selling at a loss, delays in payments or sudden changes in contractual conditions, to the sole advantage of the large retailers. this is why it is necessary to establish as soon as possible a regulatory framework at european level, defining common rules and effective control mechanisms and ensuring transparent relations and fair contract conditions between all actors in the agri-food chain, in particular the weakest ones. only in this way will our european consumers also benefit from a wider choice of innovative and quality products at fair and competitive prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because delays in payments, limited market access and pressure to reduce prices are just some of the unfair practices, often undertaken 'business to business', which must be brought to an end. the weakest link in the chain is left behind, namely small farmers and retailers in the food chain, a sector which is the beating heart of the italian economic fabric and which employs 47 million people in europe. the eu must define unfair practices clearly and provide for clear sanctions. it is also essential to combat the 'fear effect', which causes companies to accept malicious misconduct by the stronger party, for fear that this will end the business relationship. since 2009, the european parliament has adopted five resolutions and the commission three reports on this issue. we have had enough of analysis, now we must act concretely once and for all.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i agree with the report that it highlights certain unfair practices in the trade chain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this report as we need to renew our efforts in tackling income and bargaining imbalances in the food supply chain. at the moment some farmers and small/medium businesses are operating in an unfair position compared to supermarket chains and larger enterprises and, so far, efforts to tackle these unfair practises have been ineffective. a more open and fair food supply chain would not only strengthen the position of our european farmers; it would also ensure a wide choice of products including new and innovative goods for the common european consumer.
in writing. ‒ protecting smes and strengthening them within the community market is one of my main areas of activity here in the european parliament. that is why i support this report, because decisive and consistent action is needed to eliminate unfair trading practices in the food chain in the european union once and for all. the scale of the problem requires eu rules to ensure that markets function properly and that there are fair and transparent relationships between all parties involved in the food chain. it is necessary to define precisely what unfair practices are and to define the penalties associated with them. it is not enough for european smes, and in particular italian and sicilian smes, to produce quality products and to inform consumers when it is so easy to be deceived, especially in the food sector. the promotion of trade mark protection is likely to be frustrated without an adequate system of sanctions for unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the report on unfair trading practices in the food chain. it is essential to ensure, through policies aimed at combating unfair practices in the food chain, greater protection for small producers and retailers in order to stem the tide of misconduct that is harming an increasing number of consumers and businesses. it is therefore necessary to adopt strong eu legislation that ensures fair and transparent rules and regulations between all parties involved in the food chain to safeguard the sector's businesses and smes.
in writing. ‒ unfair practices in the food supply chain are a growing problem, affecting smes in particular and having a detrimental effect on the european internal market. a march 2011 interview by the european federation of food industries revealed that as many as 96% of respondents said they had been exposed to at least one form of unfair trading practice. increasingly, there are cases of late payments, restrictions on access to the capital market, abusive changes to contractual clauses and pressure to cut prices. as rapporteur for the opinion on the report on access to credit for smes, i am well aware of these problems and have therefore decided to vote in favour of european action to identify measures which go beyond the existing voluntary mechanisms. we must not forget that unfair practices occur where there are imbalances in financial resources and in the power of contract between the parties. the so-called 'fear factor' is increasingly driving weaker trading partners to avoid legal action to avoid retaliation. that is why our coordinated efforts at european level to combat these phenomena must not fail.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of europe's economic and social fabric, and their particular vulnerability to unfair trading practices, we vote in favour of the czesak report. the imbalances and distortions resulting from the abuse of a dominant position are a serious threat to smes and the functioning of the single market itself. this phenomenon, helped by globalisation and the integration of production chains, particularly affects operators in the agri-food sector. in fact, according to a 2011 study, about 96 percent of respondents said they had been the victim of dishonest practices. some member states, recognising the size and scope of the damage, have developed national rules and policies. it is clear, however, that for the single market to function properly, a community and holistic response from the european union is needed, a concrete solution which guarantees fair and transparent trade relations without sanctions. to this end, and given the threat of repercussions, i share the wish for investigations to ensure the anonymity of the companies making complaints.
in writing. ‒ i feel i must support mr czesak's proposal for the definitive elimination of commercial practices in the food chain, since there is no doubt that such behaviour causes serious damage to businesses in the sector. we know that 90% of european enterprises are smes and that they are particularly active in the food sector. smes, by their very nature, are severely affected by unfair competition, which makes it increasingly difficult not only for them to survive in the market but also to develop innovative ideas. despite the efforts of the european union and the member states to combat this phenomenon through regulatory interventions, it should be noted that the problem still exists. i therefore share the view of my colleague that further action is needed and have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report because it proposes the establishment of european regulation to tackle the widespread and growing problem of unfair trading practices in the food production sector, which small producers and retailers suffer from trading partners with a higher bargaining power. the report highlights how self-regulatory regimes have proved insufficient and therefore calls on the commission to introduce mandatory legislation, including control systems and penalties for infringers. in a 2011 survey of the food supply chain, 96% of respondents said they had been exposed to at least one form of unfair trading practices. the most common types are late payments, restrictions on market access, abusive changes to contractual terms and pressure to lower prices. these are practices which are far from good commercial practice and are imposed by a stronger trading partner with greater financial resources. this has a detrimental effect on the european economy because smes lose their ability to invest, innovate and expand their business in the single market. the eu must therefore commit itself to eradicating these practices by providing for obligations and sanctions.
in writing. ‒ unfair commercial practices consist of late payment, restricted market access, unilateral changes to contractual terms (including with retroactive effect), sudden and unjustified termination of the contract, unfair transfer of commercial risk and transfer of transport and storage costs to suppliers. the eu already has legislation to combat unfair trading practices between businesses and consumers (directive 2005/29/ec), but there are no eu rules to combat unfair trading practices between the different operators in the agri-food chain. farmers and smes are particularly vulnerable to unfair trading practices. the aim of this report is to put forward proposals against unfair trading practices in the food chain, so as to ensure a fair income for farmers and a wide choice for consumers. the objective should be to ensure transparent relations between food producers, suppliers and distributors. i voted in favour of this report in order to achieve the objective of fair trade which can in turn help to avoid overproduction and food waste.
in writing. ‒ the report presented aims to assess the most appropriate tools to be given to producers in the agri-food sector in order to ensure adequate protection against unfair trading practices. this is a worrying situation when we consider that a 2011 survey showed that 96% of respondents in the food supply chain said they had been the victim of unfair trading practices. the rapporteur proposed that decisive action be taken to combat such practices effectively and thus protect small and medium-sized enterprises and the interests of consumers. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament called on the commission to take action against unfair trading practices in the food chain, as the initiatives taken so far have not been sufficiently effective. unfair trading practices have negative consequences for farmers, such as lower profits, higher costs, overproduction or food waste and difficulties in financial planning. for example, there are producers who are sometimes forced to sell at a discount because of, for example, heavy sales and discounts in supermarkets. it is therefore necessary to define clearly what unfair trading practices are and then to lay down clear penalties for anyone who engages in them. the most affected sector, both in the food and non-food chain, is smes, which, where there are large financial imbalances, lose their capacity to invest and innovate. we must not forget the 'fear factor' which is manifested when small firms, for fear of seeing their business relationship terminated, are forced to accept unfair behaviour. i therefore thought it appropriate to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. unfair trading practices in agriculture harm the two weak links in the chain: consumers and small producers. the big retailers have too often profited by abusing their dominant position to impose their conditions on others. the european commission, in its report, acknowledges the prevalence of these abuses and notes that only a few member states have implemented legislation to combat them. however, it only supports voluntary resolution initiatives based on the exchange of good practice, such as the supply chain initiative, which have proven to be insufficient to adequately protect producers. in this resolution we have therefore called on the european commission to come forward with concrete legislative proposals to define a minimum and uniform regulatory framework at community level against unfair trading practices in the food chain, so as to ensure a fair income for farmers and a wider choice for consumers. we in the m5s want the relations between producers, suppliers and distributors of food products to be more transparent. i have therefore insisted that we should have common and harmonized rules which avoid a levelling down of standards and instead develop a level playing field between businesses of all origins, while ensuring the protection of the particularities of the culture and history of each territory.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for productivity and export-led agriculture. we cannot help but notice that this is the exact opposite of what is called 'sustainable' agriculture. the argument "we must produce more" is the usual one of the pesticide industries pushing for mass production and the introduction of gmos. i am opposed to an incomplete assessment of the risk arising from the introduction of new substances, as i am opposed to speeding up the approval processes for chemical pesticides. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. the experience of expo 2015 feeding the planet has put one of the main issues for the global future on the agenda. today, the growing population, and the resulting demand for healthy and nutritious food, is being met by a steady decline in the availability of land, environmental loss and degradation, water shortages, increasing energy demands, and the emergence of new pests and diseases - factors that are putting our natural environment under considerable stress. technological innovation, if well used, can certainly provide a valuable contribution to addressing these challenges. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the mcintyre report today. the union must make it more cost-effective to invest in basic and applied research and technology in agriculture, with the primary objective of protecting the genetic diversity of animal and plant species. the benefits of technological innovation must be made available to all european farmers and a holistic approach to developing skills and expertise must be strengthened. only by focusing on innovation and forward-looking scientific development can the fight against malnutrition and the protection of the environment and jobs be kept together.
in writing. ‒ while sharing common ground, the text promotes the idea that innovation in agriculture is a step towards acceptance of gmos. i have always been against the production of genetically modified food and i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, the world's population will exceed nine billion people, placing unprecedented pressure on the natural resources at our disposal. it is important that the european union is prepared for this key challenge by encouraging the technological development of agricultural practices that can promote food security on the continent through greater ecological sustainability. in this context, it is necessary to promote the consolidation of the circular economy as a new reference development model, develop new mechanisms to raise citizens' awareness of sustainable consumption, promote transparency in production and supply chains, and encourage the development of a simpler and more flexible regulatory framework, in particular within the cap, able to adapt to a continuously changing environment. the european union and the member states must invest more in applied research and transnational research and promote open and constructive dialogue between scientists, farmers and industry. in this sense, the horizon 2020 framework programme, with some eur 80 billion of appropriations mobilised, is an encouraging sign as regards investment and funding priorities at european level, which, however, needs to be further developed and encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that innovation has the potential to help achieve sustainable agriculture in the eu. i believe that precision agriculture, which is based on data-driven technologies, including satellite navigation tools and the internet, can generate significant environmental benefits, increase farm incomes, rationalise the use of agricultural machinery and significantly improve resource efficiency, including the use of irrigation water. the commission should therefore encourage the development and spread of precision farming, solving the problem of high costs. i note that the collection and analysis of integrated large data sets have the potential to stimulate innovation in agriculture and are particularly useful in addressing and developing an efficient and sustainable food chain. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to remove the barriers which hinder the development of information and communication technologies (ict) in agriculture. we also need more research on innovative practices in the field of plant-soil interactions, which could reduce the environmental impact and use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and other soil treatments. the commission should allow the sharing of best practice between member states in this area.
in writing. ‒ the general idea of the text is completely opposite to the idea we have of agricultural production in the eu. we do not want to produce more, we want to produce better, including better management and distribution of waste (just think that 30% of what is produced in the eu is thrown away). the report also contains a number of problematic points such as the constant progress in innovative animal and plant breeding (implying a green light for new gmos + clones), new gm products through gene editing techniques, classification of some chemical pesticides as 'low risk' based on an incomplete risk assessment. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the future development of the agricultural sector cannot be left without the technological innovations that scientific research makes available. it is about increasing crop yields and reducing environmental impact, both of which are topical issues in view of the still too widespread malnutrition and the need to deliver a healthier environment to future generations. this report, while outlining the need for a regulatory framework to encourage innovation in agriculture, looks to the future in the sense i have just described, showing responsibility and strategic vision. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ technological innovation is a necessary component for the progress of the agricultural sector. agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable. the european union and the member states should work to make the agricultural sector more attractive to new entrants in agriculture, research and the development of new technologies. i voted in favour of promoting new technological solutions for agriculture because the aim is to make economic tools and facilities available to all european farmers, including small farmers. in this regard, a favourable environment for innovation should be created by removing any unjustified obstacles.
in writing. ‒ innovation in agriculture and in particular in farm management is crucial to creating the right policy framework and tools for the future of agriculture. we are facing changes which, if left unchecked, risk overwhelming us. demographic challenges require adjustments both in the way we produce food and in the way we consume and dispose of it. some technical solutions can contribute to reduced fertiliser use, better use of soil and water, but also to higher yield varieties with better resistance to pests, diseases and reduced environmental impact. this is important. however, their widespread use must go hand in hand with the need to combat food waste at all levels of the food chain, from production to retailers and consumers. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to make the best use of technology, to use it for sustainable agriculture, but i also stress the importance of continuing the fight against food waste and food waste.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural and environmental sectors within the eu are going through a difficult period, also due to issues such as land availability, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and the emergence of new pests and disease. to answer all these problems, technologies must be developed that can be applied to all types of agriculture, from conventional to organic. the report has the merit of underlining the fact that the introduction of a regulatory framework which encourages and does not hinder innovation is essential if european agricultural production is to be sustainable and competitive on the world market.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because, despite some positive steps, there is a risk in this report of over-opening up the use of new technologies in agriculture, for example gmos.
in writing. ‒ agriculture remains one of the key industries for our societies and economies and it is very important that we constantly try to ensure and promote the best possibility for innovation and progress in our agriculture sector. the report highlights several important areas where progress can be made to enable this goal: to improve soil and water management; to ensure genetic diversity; to promote skill development and knowledge transfers; and to develop a long term investment and research plan. moving into the future, it is essential that the european agricultural sector is in the forefront of sustainability as that this could both decrease the negative impacts of agricultural operations and increase the competitiveness and productivity of european farms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu because i believe that the issue of the sustainability of our agricultural production and livestock is one of the central challenges of the near future, given the increase in the world population and the consequent increased demand for food. technology, innovation and new techniques that science offers to producers can therefore be useful in meeting these challenges. i am, however, firmly convinced that increased production and intensive farming are not the only solution: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a very good one. i also share the european parliament's call for the problem of land use, which is also an important challenge for the security of our territories. innovation and research can therefore be a key to sustainable agriculture, with less pesticides and chemical use: i therefore supported the precautionary principle as a guiding principle in the authorization of new plant breeding technologies.
in writing. agriculture is a key sector of the european economy. in recent years we have seen an increasing improvement in technologies which, also for agriculture, guarantee innovation and development. the eu could certainly be a world leader in agricultural technology, and this would allow farmers to benefit from the productivity effects it produces. these instruments also allow progress in the selection process for both animal and plant breeding by means of techniques which prove to be safe for protection against all pests and diseases affecting crops and to benefit from a healthy and reliable system within the market. innovation and progress also mean greater consumer safety. think about precision farming drones, which enable innovative farming management, which also benefits the ecosystem. agriculture remains at the heart of the european political agenda and the major issue of agricultural technologies needs to be addressed through cooperation between the commission and member states in order to achieve full support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the european union. we are at an intense moment given the many challenges we face. it is important to be able to take care of the soil, to produce products which do not harm the health of consumers, and to protect the richness of diversity. there are many production models that the agricultural sector has referred to and there is great potential for improvement and also for sustainable development. investing in precision, reliable and quality agricultural machinery can achieve a remarkable result.
in writing. ‒ the growing world population and the need to ensure quality food for all, together with the shrinking of arable land, environmental loss and degradation and the increasing demand for energy, are posing major challenges to the agricultural sector. the need to meet an ever-growing demand for food, coupled with dwindling resources, forces us to think of new solutions. among these, investing in new technologies is undoubtedly a path that must be followed with determination, but also with responsibility. i believe that a farming system which is both productive and sustainable must first of all consider the quantity and quality of its products. in this sense, investing in new cultivation techniques and plant protection products is undoubtedly important but must be done in accordance with the health standards that must be guaranteed to our citizens. finally, i would remind you that, with 805 million people in the world suffering from chronic malnutrition, optimising agricultural production is not just the eu's task, but everyone's. we have a moral obligation to rethink our lifestyle, to reduce waste.
in writing. ‒ in a context where population growth poses the problem of meeting food needs and ensuring healthy nutrition for all, technology can certainly be a factor to be focused on. technological innovation in the food sector could be the answer to problems such as land shortages, water shortages and environmental degradation. so i think it is of great importance to create conditions where farmers can benefit from technological development to meet the food needs of a world population that is constantly growing. however, this requires greater cooperation between industry and research, through financial investment and more precise european regulatory standards. i am convinced that these measures can be of great help and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ decreasing land availability, environmental loss and degradation, water shortages, increasing energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable strain on our natural environment. as a result, it is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way. technological innovation is a vital part of the solution. agricultural technologies, in particular, have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable. recent investment and new funding priorities at member state level offer encouraging signs. the horizon 2020 framework programme is the eu's largest research and innovation programme, with some €80 billion of funding available over 7 years. i voted in favour of this report and hope that the long-term challenges of sustainable agriculture can be tackled by a joint approach of the commission and the member states to ensure adequate support for technological innovation.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on in the agri committee aims to ensure the development of technological innovations for the agricultural sector, whether conventional, organic or otherwise. i voted in favour of this text, in line with the ppe group. i believe that technological innovation applied to agriculture can bring important results in the challenges faced by many of our farmers, both small and large.
in writing. ‒ declining availability of agricultural land, environmental damage and degradation, scarcity of water resources, increased energy consumption and the emergence of new diseases are putting numerous pressures on agricultural producers and the environment in the european union. the eu is putting forward technological solutions to address these major challenges, especially to create more sustainable agriculture, as population growth and the related demand for healthy food is putting a strain on the entire ecosystem. the report therefore stresses the importance and the need for collaboration between the eu, the member states, universities, industry and above all farmers so that research carried out in laboratories can be applied directly and rapidly in the agricultural sector. this will help to find new technological solutions and implement existing ones to promote sustainable agriculture in the eu. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. with the world's growing population, meeting the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition is one of the greatest future challenges to be met. food demand is expected to increase greatly over the next decade. in this report, however, the solution is found in pushing for intensive agriculture with productivity as the sole aim at all costs. the opposite of what sustainable agriculture should mean for the eu. the european union is already experiencing agricultural overproduction. in fact, 30% of what is produced in the european union is wasted and therefore thrown away. the idea for us in the m5s is not and cannot therefore be to produce more at any cost, but to aim at sustainable and quality agriculture, an agriculture which takes account of the environment and biodiversity. we must start by improving the management and distribution of that large share of production which is wasted and not by opening the door to gmos and pesticides, as this document calls for. since the beginning of my mandate i have fought and will continue to fight for quality agriculture. i could only vote against a report which suggests that the future of european agriculture must be based on practices such as gmos, cloning and the use of pesticides.
in writing. ‒ the report on innovation and the development of european agriculture calls for more agricultural production at all costs. in fact, according to the data we have received, the union already produces a sufficient amount of agricultural products, but it wastes about 30% of the products. the text also essentially opens the way to gmos and so-called 'low-risk' substances, without making a full assessment of the latter and, in fact, neglecting the safeguarding of biodiversity. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the issue raised by the report on promoting innovation and economic development in the future management of european farms is concrete and focuses on the contribution that innovation can make to the agricultural sector. however, the subject is not being dealt with in a clear way which could leave room for future manipulation and criticism, and for this reason i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report adopted today, which stresses the need for innovative and sustainable agriculture to meet the challenges we face today and in the future. the potential for innovation in agriculture is not yet fully exploited and it would be a mistake to miss the opportunity to make this key sector our ally in providing adequate responses to today's problems. the rapid increase in the world's population, together with the challenges posed by climate change and the progressive loss of biodiversity, can only lead us to review and adapt our production models, including agricultural techniques and natural resource management, but also our models for the reuse and disposal of waste, both agricultural and food. one thing is certain: we cannot afford to waste any more and innovation, in this as in other areas, can make a fundamental contribution. it can help to bring about the radical change along the entire production chain that is needed to move to the circular economy model of resource recovery and exploitation, while at the same time putting the role of farmers and the potential of this sector in terms of employment and quality production back at the centre.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, the world's population will exceed nine billion people, placing unprecedented pressure on the natural resources at our disposal. it is important that the european union is prepared for this key challenge by encouraging the technological development of agricultural practices that can promote food security on the continent through greater ecological sustainability. in this context, it is necessary to promote the consolidation of the circular economy as a new reference development model, develop new mechanisms to increase citizens' awareness of sustainable consumption, promote transparency in production and supply chains and encourage the development of a simpler and more flexible regulatory framework, in particular within the cap, able to adapt to a continuously changing environment. the european union and the member states must invest more in applied research and transnational research and promote open and constructive dialogue between scientists, farmers and industry. in this sense, the horizon 2020 framework programme, with some eur 80 billion of appropriations mobilised, is an encouraging sign as regards investment and funding priorities at european level, which, however, needs to be further developed and encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the adoption of management systems based on information and communication technologies, real-time data monitoring, sensor technology and the use of sensing systems to optimise production systems or precision farming is essential for the future management of european farms. i firmly believe that such measures can lead to better control of production phases, higher crop yields and a reduction in energy consumption and greenhouse gases. the european union, as is well known, is the world's largest exporter of agricultural products. this makes the agri-food sector an important pillar of the union's economy. the agricultural sector has seen and will see cycles of change to improve agricultural productivity. this adaptability has contributed substantially to the exceptional economic development of agriculture. the path taken by the modern agricultural enterprise is therefore no longer linked only to the production of goods, but to the concept of multifunctionality, from the processing of products to direct sales, from educational farms to agriturismo.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the own-initiative report on encouraging innovation and economic development in the management of european farms. the report makes redundant references to the fact that the expected considerable growth of the world population by 2050 justifies the need to accelerate and stimulate agricultural production. it should be noted that, contrary to what is stated in the text of the resolution, the european union is already in an agricultural overproduction situation as it stands. the message of the resolution is in total contradiction to my position.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector has always been a priority for the european union as it ensures a quality food supply. it is time to facilitate greater integration of this sector with industrial sectors such as chemical and healthcare. i am convinced that through proper cooperation synergies will be significantly strengthened, pushing farmers towards more efficient production. in addition, these advances will make it possible to produce more with less and to implement more targeted measures to combat diseases and pests. i voted for this report because it is moving in this direction, which i agree with.
in writing. ‒ innovation in agriculture has great potential which has not yet been fully recognised. addressing the main challenges is crucial to stimulating innovation and promoting entrepreneurship in agriculture. the common agricultural policy should focus more on the needs of farmers, with flexibility in view of the strategic objectives, which allows for increased innovation and competitiveness. i voted in favour of the report because it aims to encourage innovation and the economic development of farms by harmonizing the agricultural sector with the chemical, health and technological sectors, through the exchange of knowledge and the use of resources. the final objective is to optimise the interaction and improve the integration of agriculture into the circular economy.
in writing. ‒ the report presented aims to highlight the projected growth of the world population by 2050 and to push for an acceleration and overstimulation of agricultural production. the text states that, given that soils are everywhere exposed to a decline in fertility, it is necessary to intensify and improve soil productivity through innovative ways of ecosystem functions. in fact, the report does not hide, too veiledly, the intention to strengthen and increase the production and innovation of agricultural enterprises. i am totally opposed to the report proposed here, because it is going in the opposite direction to what i think is appropriate, namely to produce less but better, with less waste and better management. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ new technological solutions have the potential to make the agriculture of the future more sustainable, to cope with the world's growing population and to provide food security, increased demand for high-protein products and healthier food. genetic diversity is a possible solution for sustainable agriculture, encouraging the best possible use of resources to safeguard biodiversity and improve plant varieties. however, this report is controversial because it encourages intensive farming as the only solution to the growing global demand for food and does not consider other solutions such as the fight against food waste or other more sustainable solutions. i voted for the resolution, but i believe that only through a balanced use of technological instruments and different policies can we achieve appreciable and sustainable results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the challenges facing the european agricultural sector today, but especially in the future, can only be overcome through entrepreneurial and innovation policies. the eu must have a regulatory framework that supports these policies and not hinders them. i particularly welcome the call for precision agriculture, which will make it possible to achieve important results, particularly in terms of reducing the use of plant protection products and fertilisers, but also in terms of saving water resources.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, despite some interesting elements, the report may pose a potential danger to the deregulated openness to genetic manipulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this report as it highlights several important aspects for the future of the agricultural sector. i support the overall view of the report that improving innovation and competitiveness is essential for the agricultural sector moving into the future and that future legislation should take this into account. i also agree with the report on the need to promote a more prudent use of natural resources, to ensure the biodiversity of our farms, to tackle food waste and to tackle soil degradation. i also echo the report in calling for the commission to provide a more ambitious strategy to align and focus research and innovation on these issues so that the european agricultural sector can retail and even improve its competitiveness in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on promoting innovation and economic development in the future management of european farms, especially for the smart approach to the world population growth perspective by 2050. the fao estimates that the world demographic landscape will change radically in a few decades, necessitating the sustainable development and improvement of food supply technologies. in the last few decades we have seen a sudden drop in the productivity of agricultural land due to drought, land use and adverse weather events, with very heavy economic consequences for farmers who have also had to cope with the crisis. agricultural smes, especially family-run ones, are one of the most vibrant elements in the food landscape of the european union, contributing to the social and economic dynamism of rural areas, and for this reason they need more attention and in terms of better living conditions and employability. new agricultural policies must therefore be developed which take into account not only innovation and research but also a modern approach to corporate governance based on clear and consistent regulation of agri-business.
in writing. this report focuses on encouraging innovation and economic development in the management of european farms, while also providing opportunities for job growth for farmers. european agriculture has major features which could have a major impact on employment in many areas. it is clear that we must do a great deal to make technology available so that the competitiveness of our farms can be increased. the adoption of new technologies would ensure a vigorous rural economy and at the same time improve production performance. furthermore, innovation in agriculture would make it possible to carry out targeted interventions and to provide for an update of the now outdated standards and to ensure greater and proper harmonization with other industrial sectors, in order to optimise the interaction of agriculture in the european economic system. i therefore believe that the agricultural sector is of fundamental importance to our country and that it represents the world reference for high quality products, which is why innovation in agricultural management must be supported and encouraged.
in writing. ‒ considering that agriculture is one of the most dynamic and potentially innovative economic sectors, considering that the cap should be more focused on farmers' needs and promote the use of technology and innovation in agriculture, considering, finally, that the creation of high-quality products requires innovative elements, also in order to enhance the role of the european union in the coming years, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. ‒ the challenges of population growth in the coming years mean that we will have to adapt both our food production and our consumption patterns. this report, which i have supported, focuses on agricultural innovation and farm management, with the aim of providing the regulatory framework and the appropriate instruments for the agriculture of the future. the importance of protecting biodiversity and the high quality of european agricultural products should not be forgotten. the key to sustainable agriculture is improving the management of natural resources. techniques such as precision farming, computerised management systems and real-time data control can help achieve important results such as reducing fertiliser use, water use and soil consumption. the reuse of agricultural waste and the recovery of minerals as organic fertilisers should also be encouraged. the report also stresses the need to tackle the problem of food waste. every year in europe, 100 tonnes of food ends up in the garbage. this waste must be tackled at all levels of the food chain, from production to processing and sale to consumption, as 33% of this waste is dependent on consumers.
in writing. ‒ the european agricultural sector is of fundamental importance to the european union. it guarantees food supplies and is at the same time a vital economic pillar, providing jobs for 25 million people directly involved in agricultural work or employed in the food or retail trade. today, the eu's agricultural sector continues to be the world's benchmark in farming practices that deliver high-quality, high-value-added products while providing knowledge-based solutions to feed a growing and demanding world population. therefore, i believe that if new technological solutions based on innovation and competitiveness in the food supply are integrated, eu agriculture will remain important in the years to come. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ technology for agriculture increases innovation and competitiveness. i voted in favour of the report discussed in the committee on agriculture and rural development on the promotion of innovation and economic development in the management of european farms, because i am in favour of the idea of an increasingly technological agriculture. some areas in italy, such as the po valley, are concrete proof of the positive results that technology can bring to the agricultural sector. much can still be done to improve productivity. the introduction of new technologies will make it possible to achieve this goal using fewer resources and with greater attention to respect for the environment.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector in the eu has always been looking for new production practices, techniques and methods to increase production and improve the adaptability of agricultural practices to new and changing circumstances, as well as to reduce production costs and consumption of the raw materials used. in order to ensure adequate profitability of the agricultural sector, investment should be made in innovation, research and development of new governance and business models. in this context, the report stresses the importance of new solutions to increase the use of innovative methods, goods and resources, which can boost the economic development of the whole sector. i believe that innovation and sustainability are two key aspects for the future of agriculture in the eu, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with today's vote on this report, which saw me play a leading role as rapporteur for an opinion in the committee on the environment. this own-initiative report addresses important issues for the agriculture of the future, such as the need to focus on sustainable agriculture that can ensure an adequate and quality food supply while preserving the environment and resources for future generations, also in the light of the new economic model of circular economy development. at the same time, the report stresses the importance of combating food waste, given that 1.3 billion tonnes of food are wasted or lost every year, while 800 million people suffer from chronic hunger and more than two billion people are malnourished, creating a situation that is no longer tolerable. in conclusion, i would like to thank the colleagues with whom i have worked in recent months and to invite the european commission to adopt our recommendations.
in writing. the world population is estimated to exceed nine billion people by 2050. in order to feed this population, food production, according to this report, will have to increase. the answer to this challenge is to promote technological innovation in agriculture in order to focus on intensive production. the report believes that technological innovations can help us to implement targeted interventions in agriculture. the idea is to produce more by also using precision agriculture in the fight against diseases and pests and thus, once again, allowing and promoting the use of pesticides and fertilizers. the document is intended to promote harmonization of the agricultural sector with other industrial sectors, such as the chemical, health and technology sectors. all things that can only see me against. we at m5s are fighting for quality production, we are for better and sustainable production. the european union is already overproducing in agriculture. we must concentrate our efforts on fighting food waste; 30% of agricultural products in the eu are thrown away. we want an increasingly careful agriculture which respects the environment and biodiversity. we want quality food on our plate. i therefore voted against this report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we've been short-sighted these past few years. we did not see that we were facing a young continent, with so many problems and so much potential, and above all we did not understand that with this continent we could share these challenges. if you think about it, all the great challenges that we face are also facing africa. the fight against terrorism: can we fight terrorism without africa? managing migration flows: can we do without africa? interfaith dialogue is a good thing. economic, civil and cultural development? africa is a partner for us. now finally there's a breakthrough. and there is the breakthrough - we are telling the truth here too - thanks to the italian government and thanks to the european commission. i thank both federica mogherini and frans timmermans and the whole european commission for these proposals. there are two knots, so i'll get right to the point. the first node is the financial resource. you did your best . the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the member states must now do something. we cannot just say so and then not make money available, even from the member states. and then there is the multiplication and leverage mechanism, which we must first of all check the eib well. governance must be done, but it must also change its mission, which cannot be to finance only projects with triple a, otherwise projects with triple a, in africa, are not funded, and we are being mocked. and we can do anything but make fun of each other. projects in africa are risky and therefore not triple a. the second issue is political and cultural. the compact, this program, is not just a security program. of course, it is necessary to manage migration flows properly. we are paying attention to the theme 'african youths are coming to take jobs away from european youths'. this is a story that doesn't even hold up scientifically. let the people who study these problems tell you. the compact, this programme, is designed to provide security, of course, but above all it is designed to create a political, economic, civil and cultural partnership with africa. if this is just a ploy to stop the flows, it's not much. if, on the other hand, it is, as i am convinced it is, a means of finally achieving a great alliance, it is a great thing and deserves to be called a revolutionary breakthrough.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the future of the union, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to decide on the future of the union. you say the deal with turkey saved lives, but the dead just move on. there are a thousand in may in the mediterranean. you say that we must help refugees in their countries, you announce aid to 16 african countries, but you make all economic cooperation conditional on returns and border controls. the promised help is a diktat: either you relegate the refugees to your prison camps or no help at all. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity. you say that refugees need to become more resilient, self-sufficient, by staying in their countries of origin or transit. i wonder if you know what you're talking about when you brazenly psychologize resilience. the people who invented all this and accuse the italian government in the first place think they have clean hands and a clean heart, like lady macbeth before she realized what she had done, but they have dirty hands with systematic violations of international law and a shameful agreement with turkey. you are already pursuing the policies that are being called for in europe by the extreme right, mr timmermans, mrs mogherini.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal is in fact a reworking of the migration compact of the italian prime minister renzi, in which a logic of cooperation prevails, not disinterested, ambiguous, with few new elements, based on exchange rather than on the needs and rights of those who flee and those who welcome. the european union will seek to achieve cooperation in the management of migration flows through yet another billion on billions of euros, on the model of the eu-turkey agreement, which is achieved at the expense of european dignity and the european value system. little is said about the nature of the oppressive and dictatorial governments and regimes that would receive aid, the levels of corruption in those countries, and the instability of governments such as libya, which makes it difficult to think about possible operations. so we are in favour, in general terms, of development cooperation and saving lives, but without hypocrisy. for decades we have been talking about aid to a continent which has been mainly exploited and destabilised by the major western and european powers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the success of european action depends on a number of conditions. first, an effective internal and external migration policy based on legality, solidarity and respect for human rights. secondly, investment in reliable partners, certainly with a realistic policy, but with the awareness - i say this also to my colleague mr verhofstadt - that to have real partnerships we need a new, less liberal approach to trade policies: cooperation and not exploitation. thirdly, we need a genuine and sufficient financial base. we must overcome the shadows still present in the debate between the member states and the absence of the council today on a document which is said to be a turning point gives much to think about. i think that the eurobond route would have been preferable. but if we take your proposals seriously, then it is useful to include a safeguard clause setting a time limit for verifying that it is working and, if not, to put in place the most appropriate financial instruments to solve and deal with the problem.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank, also on behalf of my group, the high representative, mrs mogherini, for her words of condolence and also all the members of this house who have been close to us at this time. beyond that, going back to the subject, i have to say that i think there are two things that should be emphasized. the first is that it is true that there are migration flows. it is also true that these flows are often encouraged and often benefited by criminal organizations, which are also sometimes terrorist organizations that may then carry out attacks in our countries and sometimes ally themselves with european criminal organizations. so we have a moral duty to block these flows. on the other hand, there is a right which i believe is inalienable, which is the right to allow a person to live and grow up in the country in which he was born. so aid to african countries is certainly fine, but let us be careful, because we have to see that these african countries then apply all those policies to make sure that these people can stay in their territories and that perhaps we do not, unfortunately as we have done in part with turkey, make alliances with countries that unfortunately do not respect human rights and create great difficulties even in what are our policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent migrant tragedies off the coast of libya and crete remind us that this phenomenon is still in a state of emergency. after the closure of the balkan route, the only viable option for asylum seekers to reach europe remains the mediterranean. the proposals presented today in this house seek to tackle the migration crisis in a new way, by focusing on new cooperation between the european union and the countries of origin and transit of migration flows. investing in the economies of these countries, through specific infrastructure projects and with resources coming not only from the community budget, is certainly a good starting point for improving european action in this field. italy has long been calling for policies in this direction. the phenomenon of migration flows to europe will certainly not be exhausted in a short time, but the success of the actions announced today will require the contribution of all, because it is good to remember that this is a european issue and not a matter of a few individual states.
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to know, when you say that italy must close its borders, if that means that it must reject to the sea the people who arrive from the sea and who often come, precisely, from places where there are wars, persecutions or other, are children, women, vulnerable people. what do you mean by italy closing its sea borders? push them back?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of hearing the usual lies from the renzi government and the commission, dear mogherini, on the immigration emergency. for years we have been the only ones to denounce the danger of illegal immigration, which is invading italy and europe, and for this you have called us racists, populists, xenophobes. the commission and the italian government have so far been full of talk and no action. even worse, you have buried your head in the sand, you have declared that immigrants are resources and that everyone should be helped. shame on you! shame on you for mocking poor people. shame on you for being complicit in this mass invasion. renzi's migration compact will be yet another hoax, just as the juncker plan for the relocation of immigrants was a hoax. the tragic truth is that the european plans and those of the italian government are in vain and every day thousands of illegal immigrants invade italy. so no more lies. the illegal invasion must be stopped immediately and the only solution is to close the borders and defend our borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the vice-presidents of the commission for this proposal which they have put before us today, and which i believe is going in the right direction. we must start a virtuous process of investment in the countries of origin of refugees, so that they can remain there and that there are conditions for development in those countries which will also slow down the process. we know very well that the african numbers, the increase in the african population, will mean that the flows are likely to increase enormously in the next 30 years. so we have a time frame in which we have to intervene and in which we have to build stable relations with these countries. i don't know if 500 million will be enough, but it's a first step in the right direction. but we're going to have to do more than that. vice-president timmermans spoke of a mix of positive and negative incentives. i would also like to start by expressing some negative feelings about those countries, including those in europe, which are not fully involved in the process and which obviously do not want to play their part. because we are all european countries and there are no countries which, being closer to the border, have to do more, but we must all cooperate in a common effort. so we welcome the negative incentives for those who oppose the process and do not contribute in a practical way to the success of this truly european operation. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. the strategy we are talking about is not a short-term strategy, because investing in african countries is certainly not going to give a short-term return. we have already talked about a programme that must cover several years, and therefore a package of billions, and we will probably have to do even more to make this strategy more efficient and effective. so i agree that this has to be a long-term strategy, because in the short term we have to buffer, and there are other tools for buffer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about the importance of an investment plan for africa which can benefit greatly from a wide-ranging cooperation programme. yet this proposal seems to be focused primarily on strengthening the cooperation and capacity of third countries to prevent people fleeing war and poverty from reaching our shores. the document is based on a conditionality which betrays the spirit of cooperation and which is intended to subordinate the whole relationship with third countries, which should be based on mutual respect and fairness. i am concerned about the diversion of funds for cooperation for border management purposes; it does not create opportunities for young africans, it does not combat inequalities, but increases them, and it does not attack the root causes of migration. the member states must now turn their words into action, because the aid they promised has not yet been delivered. externalising our borders and responsibilities is not the solution, especially since european governments still refuse to put in place those common solutions which alone could tackle the phenomenon.
in writing. i welcome with great pleasure the presentation today by our high representative federica mogherini of the new migration compact. i believe that after an excellent work, we have finally reached a european turning point, thanks also to the contribution of italy, which was the starting point for the request for the preparation of this innovative document. europe has finally developed a clear defence of its borders. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. we must help above all these countries - jordan, lebanon, niger, nigeria, senegal, mali, ethiopia, tunisia and libya - from which otherwise an unstoppable exodus would begin. this reversal is the only way to prevent the death of desperate people in the mediterranean. every euro spent on africa and the mediterranean is a euro spent on europe. another investment we must make is the creation of a border police force, equipped and equipped to quickly identify infiltrators among the thousands of refugees seeking shelter in europe.
in writing. we are discussing this today, on the very day when the un is telling us that in just two years the death toll in the mediterranean has exceeded 10 000 and while these years have been spent in a state of disorder between urgent appeals from parliament and glaring failure to take decisions from the council. today we are faced with yet another debate on a proposal which italy has been pushing hard for, and which has seen more than 48 000 people arrive on its shores, particularly in my region of sicily. the italian approach, the migration compact, which we consider to be no longer deferrable, but rather extremely urgent, is now largely the commission's approach. immigration is not a problem of the member state, nor is it exclusively a european problem. it is a global problem and cannot be tackled without the involvement of a continent like africa, whose pacification we must all contribute to with resources, concrete projects and effective cooperation. but now we need the participation of each member state, without any doubt, we need a new approach and the intervention of each one for solutions that are no longer emergency but structural, real, without giving in to electoral interests and easy populism and demagogy such as those i still hear in this house today.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a new european pact on migration is undoubtedly a step forward compared with the current situation, also insofar as it transposes the italian government's proposal of the same name. to stem the human tragedy that has seen, according to caritas data, as many as 2,814 lives extinguished in an attempt to reach our continent in 2016 alone, it is necessary to act directly in the countries of origin of migrants and refugees. however, it is not only with monetary concessions that we will find a solution to the increase in migration flows. it is good to invest 8 billion in ethiopia, eritrea, niger, nigeria, mali, lebanon and jordan, but we need to control the management of funds, the conditions of migrants and refugees, or we risk an ineffective response. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. only when we recover a spirit of solidarity among europeans will we be able to find a humane and just solution to help those in need.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the communications which the commission has made today in this house on the subject of immigration, from the migration compact to the legal migration package, and i welcome them with moderate satisfaction, in the knowledge that we must act upstream and certainly not downstream. that is why we welcome the extraordinary investment plan for africa, in the knowledge that it can improve the economic and social conditions of those states and, at the same time, enable them to cooperate effectively on the subject of border control and returns, as happened with turkey and as happened a few years ago with libya, when the italian government concluded that agreement which produced exceptional results. some perplexities allow me to put it out there on the subject of legal migration. i believe that we must be absolutely in solidarity with refugees and migrants fleeing war and persecution, but we cannot afford to encourage economic migration in a context of the very serious economic and social crisis which is sweeping our continent. just think of the youth unemployment rate which is 22% in europe, which in my country, italy, has reached 35.9% and in my homeland, sicily, has reached 55.9% unless we are in the presence of some highly specialised figures who cannot be found within the internal labour market, leaving it to the member states alone to identify the maximum number of economic migrants they can take in. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that we can only afford to take in highly skilled workers. it does not matter whether the employer is a large industrialist or a small and medium-sized enterprise. i believe that we cannot afford to take in all of them, but we must limit the possibility of taking in them within our continent to a few highly specialised figures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, no policy, no instrument, no agreement, taken individually, can by itself provide a response to the phenomenon of migration. we reiterated this just a few weeks ago when we adopted the resolution on the holistic approach to migration. to tackle this phenomenon also means, and above all, opening up legal channels of immigration and subsequently ensuring the adoption of ambitious measures and policies aimed at integrating migrants into the social, economic and political fabric of the host countries. the commission is taking a step further towards our demands, recognising that europe can only prosper if it facilitates the mobility of knowledge and people. the legislative proposal on the amendment of the blue card is a good one. however, demographic challenges and multiple labour shortages require europe to go beyond the concept of a highly skilled worker. we must respond to the needs and new demands of the labour market and the various member states by investing in human capital. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. yes, education is a fundamental tool for integration. as i said at the beginning of my speech, no policy, no instrument and no agreement, taken individually, can provide a response to the migration phenomenon on their own.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge posed by the migratory flows to europe requires a holistic and global european approach. the commission's proposals today are therefore welcome, also in the wake of the italian proposal for the migration compact. we will study them and work on them as a european parliament with the greatest possible attention. in the committee on employment we approved by a large majority an own-initiative report on the integration of refugees into the european labour market, which i was rapporteur for and which will be voted on in this house next month. we can start from here. the report makes clear, among other things, the need to extend the blue card to beneficiaries of international protection, in line with what the commission is proposing today. let me say, in the spirit of full cooperation between the various parts of society, refugees and migrants included, that i have a key message to say, also here in the plenary. no to a harmful integration of the social cohesion of our communities, no to social dumping among the vulnerable groups, yes to adequate economic resources, including through the european social fund strengthened in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework that we are going to face, which must be invested in what in all respects must be considered an opportunity. it is an essential test bed, let us not forget, for our values of humanity and solidarity as europeans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that something is very important. education and legal pathways to access training, education and employment are proving to be a win-win strategy, one that allows many of these people, immigrants or even refugees in emergency situations, to have access to a life opportunity, but also to our aging societies to have skills in internationalization and the ability to accommodate the skills we need. i would also like to point out that it was important, for example, to adopt the directive the other day in this house on the possibility, although not permanent, of finally opening the doors to researchers, students, volunteers and trainees. but now it is about making this more structural as a fundamental element of integration and innovation. i think, from this point of view, it was very important to have included in the forms of legal access also the educational corridors for refugee students in our universities.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it was 2011 and the commission was proposing the agenda for new skills for employment. what have we got? i'm not doing anything. we have trashed the rights of workers with the new labour reforms. italy, greece and france are the proof of the result we have achieved. we asked for and you asked for the mobility of workers. the only thing that is mobile in the labour market today is the brain drain from southern europe to northern europe, as well as strong legislation at european level. in fact, we are still unable to get our hands on the directive on the posting of workers, which has been issued, has been revised and has not yet been implemented, and we are already talking about revising it again. unfortunately, there is no fundamental political choice that really protects the interests of workers and deals with them and the social emergencies that are plaguing europe today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate that commissioner thyssen has today brought the new skills agenda for europe to parliament, to strengthen human capital, employability and competitiveness. i also see that the request i made as chairman of the committee on culture in the joint meeting with the empl committee to work towards this goal, in agreement with commissioner navracsics and with an integrated and holistic approach in the framework of lifelong learning, has been followed up and i hope that it will continue. we know that there is a persistent mismatch between the skills demanded and those offered, that we need to strengthen digital skills, but also citizenship skills, key competences, and higher education, that we need to promote knowledge alliances, partnerships between training institutions, education, universities, businesses and research, to promote the education, work and innovation chain and also apprenticeship in higher education. i share the three focuses on the quality of training, the comparability of skills and qualifications and the promotion of informed career choices. the proposal on the skills guarantee to offer and validate personal skills is also interesting, and i would like to have some further details, as is the revision of the eqf framework to include informal and non-formal skills more fully. i am pleased to see that the actions scheduled for june include the launch of a tool for recognising skills for people from third countries, a measure which we had also called for to promote educational corridors for refugee students in european universities and schools. i would like to know more about how the member states are to be helped to strengthen their national systems, their comparability and the mobility of both university and vocational training students. in conclusion, i believe that it is also important to pay greater attention to the issue of strengthening the training tools for teachers and trainers, including through european e-teaching platforms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the concrete proposals for the new skills agenda, starting with the two already presented on the ambitious skills guarantee and the revision of the european qualifications framework, will be in line with the objective of improving access to the european labour market, making it more inclusive of the most vulnerable categories. i would like to stress a few priority points: the development of digital basic skills, the harmonisation of skills assessment frameworks, the review of vocational training systems, the study of early assessment systems for the skills of refugees and immigrants. these results will only be achieved if the measures discussed today are seen as complementary to reforms and investments aimed at protecting the social rights of european citizens and creating jobs. without new jobs, new skills will not be enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the obsession with skills is an indication of a process of reification of the human person which has been going on for some time. young people are seen as a resource of human capital to be exploited. the european commission's approach is wrong in that it is aimed at creating job precariousness, as the recent labour market reforms demanded by the european union from italy and france demonstrate. this precarious situation is reflected in the social and cultural life of european citizens. young people are being turned into objects to be filled with skills, which have little or nothing to do with the development of civic virtues and critical thinking, identified solely in terms of an exaggerated search for infinite economic growth. in addition, it was decided to use an instrument such as the youth guarantee, allocating more than one billion euros, which did not produce any positive results. youth unemployment, especially in southern europe, continues to remain at unacceptable levels. we 're changing course radically . let us abandon these programmes that have come from the top and implement policies that put the territories with their peculiarities and the real needs of the european citizens at the centre!
member of the commission. – mr president, dear colleagues, honourable members, let me be short in my concluding remarks. time is running, as the president reminds us, and i spoke already for longer in my introduction. but let me add this: i am very happy that we agree on the necessity and the importance of a skills agenda. of course improving skills must go hand in hand with macroeconomic politics to stimulate job creation. the two are mutually reinforcing. the european fund for strategic investments is one flagship action which is helping us to do just that, injecting investment into the real economy to create more and good quality jobs. and let me repeat what i said already in the joint committee meeting last april: employability is not a dirty word. education and training must prepare young people to participate fully in society and to be an active citizen, and help them to acquire transversal skills, but people rightly expect that their education and training will also help them to get a good job. good basic skills, having a good basis to build upon for lifelong learning, is therefore in the interest of both the economy and the individual fulfilment of every person. our skills agenda is an agenda for all. it is for young and old, for people in education, in unemployment, inactive people and people in work. the success of the skills agenda will depend on the commitment and the active engagement of many players, member states first and foremost, as well as businesses and trade unions, education and training institutions, workers, learners and many others. the european parliament has a key role to play in raising the political profile of this debate, both in europe and in your home countries and in supporting the implementation of the skills agenda. i want to thank you for your support and for your inspiration. i look forward to cooperating with you and, as i mentioned in my introduction, the documents will be available as soon as possible, that is when they are formally adopted next friday.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in bangladesh (2016/2729 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an extremely worrying escalation in bangladesh. we have to ask ourselves why, why a country that had always been distinguished by the syncretism, by the tolerance of the muslim majority, is now seeing this resurgence. the reason is also and above all in poverty. we know well how much the european multinationals exploit, especially in agriculture, rice and textiles, and even more so the workers in bangladesh. this in some ways prepares and facilitates the work of daesh, of al qaeda, of those extremist groups that are increasingly penetrating this civil society of bangladesh, which was once stronger and more immune to this risk, and are leading it to radicalization. as europeans we must push for reforms in the judicial field, in the functioning of the police, and even more we must demand progress on democracy and freedom of the press. but first we must face up to our own actions. the economic and social stability of the country is the key pillar to prevent radicalisation and terrorism. we must not forget this and demand that our multinationals take consistent action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in bangladesh is a symptom of the poor state of freedom and a sign of the danger of disintegration. the repression and killing of many activists testify to the gravity of the moment, and i believe that we absolutely cannot turn our heads anywhere else. the government is doing too little, and this risks - we must emphasize this - objectively risking to represent a cover for criminal actions by extremist groups. the european union should not just speak, but exert all the pressure necessary to make the bangladeshi authorities take a more decisive action. we must use all the tools at our disposal. i would like to reiterate the position expressed by the european parliament last november and call for everything to be done to put an end to the violence and intimidation against human rights defenders and to put the question of rights at the centre, also in bangladesh.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start also by joining with the members who have expressed their outrage at the killing of the hindu priest, who was hacked to death. on behalf of the council, i would like to offer my condolences to the families and to the next of kin. obviously for us it is also extremely important that those who are responsible for this are brought to justice. let me say a few words about the input that you have brought to the debate tonight. i think we are all quite conscious of the fact that bangladesh is an enormously complex and extremely vulnerable country; in terms of environmental issues it is the most vulnerable country in the world. it is the most densely populated country in the world, and it is a country that has different aspects. on the one hand, it has made some progress in reaching the sustainable development goals, which is actually amazing. if you look at the rise of civil society in bangladesh we have seen that, through very important progress made through civil society in cooperation with the government, enrolment in primary education is now close to 100%. at the same time, we see a reduction in poverty, and maternal mortality has declined by 40% in nine years. that is the positive news. but at the same time, the council joins you today in looking at some of the very negative developments that we have seen. first of all, i think the shrinking space for the democratic and secular opposition comes at a par with all the issues that you have mentioned – the multiplication of terrorist attacks, targeting bloggers, religious minorities – including christians, i would say – foreigners and law enforcement officers. the most brutal murders included a student, a professor, two lgtbi activists, a policeman and a security guard, a hindu tailor, the wife of a police officer, a christian grocer and a buddhist monk. we are talking about a rise in these kinds of very violent human rights violations, and we see at the same time a limiting of political space for political opposition, as well as for civil society. it obviously worries the council, as it does you, and i want to say that beyond all kinds of declarations we give out regularly – and i can give you most of the statements that we have given out in the last couple of months – it is not enough to make statements. all these statements refer to the facts that you have been putting forward, including the violence and the need for justice. it is also important that we work on countering, first of all, the issues that are behind this, including projects to counter violent extremism and to assist in deradicalisation. we will continue, and i will come back to that in a second, this important element in our human rights instruments. we are very worried about the rise of that. it is also very important for the government of bangladesh to acknowledge the risks of this radicalism, including possibly the risks posed by isis. therefore, and this was also in answer to some of the questions, the dialogue in the context of the united nations that some of you have mentioned is extremely important. it is also important that our delegations reach out not only through projects in these areas, but also in the bilateral meeting at the asem summit, to the government of bangladesh on these very disturbing developments. when we talk about human rights, we should talk about the fact that the human rights situation is steadily deteriorating, mainly at the expense of the most vulnerable segments of the population of bangladesh. your appeal should be communicated; the response by law enforcement agencies seems at best too slow and inadequate, for example in the most important and iconic cases, the horrible rape and assassination of a 19-year-old female student in the military cantonment of comilla, which still remains unexplained. i wanted to mention, in the context of this complex situation in bangladesh, the sustainability compact, especially in bangladesh, but also in other countries. we have to talk about human rights in the broader sense of the word, including the social-economic rights and the role of unions and so on and so forth. following the rana plaza collapse where everybody was extremely horrified – and this was already more than three years ago – over 1 100 people were killed and thousands injured. the sustainability compact was agreed between the government and the european union, the united states and the ilo, with commitments on three interlinked pillars in the ready-made garment industry. i would like to support all of you who have said that this is not only a compact that should remain on paper, but needs operationalisation and implementation, as well as the responsiblisation of the business sector in order to ensure that it actually works. it requires some elements. first, respect for labour rights, in particular freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; i think that includes the important role of the unions. second, the structural integrity of factory buildings and occupational safety and health; i think we should also support where we can – bilaterally but also in the context of the european union – the government of bangladesh and others in ensuring this. then, of course, responsible business conduct is absolutely important. the donors fund the ready-made garment industry programme in the context of remediation measures. that goes up to usd 200 million, so it is not small fry, so to speak. canada has recently also joined as a partner. we recognise the progress made by bangladesh, but of course, and i think that was correctly mentioned, the need is there for the government to facilitate trade unions’ registration, to upgrade the directorate of labour with additional staff and resources, and to ensure that the legal framework is also applicable in the export processing zones, protecting freedom of association and collective bargaining. i think these are important points. what do we have as instruments? first of all, we have the dialogue with the government of bangladesh, and i think it should focus especially on these areas. continuing progress in the sdgs, at the same time making it apparent that we are worried about a deterioration in the political space and the degradation of the security situation. we must also see where we can assist, because this is a major issue. it is the responsibility of all actors, including the government first and foremost, but also other actors – terrorist groups, responsible and irresponsible political parties – to play their role in ensuring that this political degradation does not continue. certainly, through our european union assistance –and we have development assistance on the dci up to eur 690 million to ensure that our programmes are up to date as regards the present situation and developments. there was one question on sanctions. i am not such a great fan of sanctions towards bangladesh at this point, speaking obviously also on behalf of the european council. i think we have three lines of action now in the context of what i have just said regarding the sdgs, the human rights dialogue and political dialogue on the critical issue we just discussed, and the compact. that would be better than formally suspending trade cooperation negotiations. that would most likely be detrimental and hardly facilitate any improvement in the political, human rights and security situation in bangladesh.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part (05431/2015 - c8-0061/2015 - 2013/0441 ((nle)) (a8-0149/2016), the recommendation by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the resolution on the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part (a8-0148/2016), the legislative proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, on the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, on the proposal for a draft council decision on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the republic of the croatian republic of croatia to the european union, on partnership and its member states, of the one part, of the one part, of the one part, on the one part, and the european union, and the one part, and the european union, and the european union, and the one part, and the one part, and the european union, and the one part,
the s&d group is therefore calling for the adoption of a new framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. as the s&d shadow rapporteur, i thank all my colleagues, but especially mr brok, who took account of our amendments with great balance and intelligence, and thus reached compromises which were supported by a large majority. this approval of the agreement confirms the impetus that we europeans want to give to trade and its freedom, also as an opportunity for the development of democracy and human rights, which are decisive conditions for concluding any agreement in the field of trade. however, the particular significance of this agreement is that the proposal covers a region of the world which is undergoing enormous expansion. southeast asia has countries that are growing much faster than europe and have young, active, life-hungry populations. among these countries are the philippines: a great and beautiful land, with an ancient history and a traditional relationship with the west. the philippines, like many other countries, still has serious problems of crime, corruption and abuse by law enforcement, but it should not be forgotten that it is a great democracy, with a constitution that defends the fundamental principles of freedom and respect for people. that is why the calls we have made for improvements in human rights, poverty and climate action are part of a desire for cooperation, support and friendship with the philippines, and are not destructive. i hope that in the coming months this cooperation with the philippines will go a long way, also on the cultural and political level more generally, and i hope that this government which has been elected by a large majority can really improve the situation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can only welcome the idea of a partnership agreement with the philippines, although there are also some very important criticisms which must necessarily be stressed. the granting of gsp+ human rights status may also have been a bit too hasty, in light of the fact that, as reported by many reports, including amnesty international, there is still torture and degrading treatment, mainly by the police, enforced disappearances, impunity and attacks on freedom of expression, as well as abuses by irregular armed militias. i also stress how inappropriate it is for us to uncritically interfere in the tensions in the south china sea, the frontier of the confrontation between blocs between china and the united states, exemplified also by the signing of the tpp. we must instead prepare a different kind of trade defence against chinese aggression against our products and not get involved in territorial disputes which are a direct continuation of the geopolitical priorities of others. we expect this new government of rodrigo duterte to make real and consistent steps forward with what he promised in the election campaign.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of this agreement is somewhat clouded by the consequences it may have, consequences which i consider to be heavy and damaging for some important sectors of european production, particularly that of my country, italy. for example, the agreement which allows the philippines to export duty-free 66% of its products, including footwear and textiles: this is certainly not going in the direction we want. the european union's objective for the philippines also seems to be to reach a free trade agreement. but in the report, in the agreement, they consider that today, if you wanted to do business in the philippines, perhaps from europe, you would be forced, whether you wanted to or not, to make agreements with a local partner, who by law must have a majority. and that with the freedom of enterprise and free trade is punching, in my humble opinion. president duterte has announced big projects, big investment plans, public works, but will our small and medium enterprises be able to participate? i doubt that very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the philippines is a strategic partner in a crucial region of the global chessboard with very high development potential. the cooperation agreement is a tool for deepening the dialogue on economic and trade matters, as well as for strengthening cooperation on human rights and strategic cooperation. the partnership and the opening of trade negotiations will have to be based on a greater coherence between economic interests and democratic principles, in line with the gsp+ system in force. the cooperation agreement and the future free trade agreement are the evolution of a natural path which sees the european union alongside the philippines. given the economic dynamism of the philippines and the importance of establishing new and close links with the country in the region, the whole strategy should aim at creating a common ground, made up of shared values, from which citizens and workers on both sides can benefit, by reinforcing cooperation and enhancing exchanges.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: some people have already said it: it is a real shame, it is a shame to admit that after 15 years, after a resolution was adopted in this parliament a year and a half ago, not a single leaf has been moved. no investigation has been opened. the member states continue to hide behind the regulatory framework or even behind state secrets. this is not acceptable at all, because if we accept that in our member states - as happened in romania, as happened in poland, as happened in lithuania, as confirmed by the us senate report - acts of torture, inhuman and degrading treatment are being carried out, we are accepting that they can happen to any of us. so i think it's really time to raise our voices and demand that the guilty pay, because going on like this really doesn't get us anywhere.
in writing. the fight against terrorism must not become a pretext for impunity and a cover for the crimes of those who do not respect the rule of law, human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms. despite the unanimous condemnation of the cia's secret interrogation and detention programme, which has involved abductions, torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, arbitrary and unlawful detention, much remains unclear about the involvement and complicity of the authorities of some member states. in some countries the investigations are going on, in others they are stopped, in others they are not even started. we have seen how the study by the ad hoc committee of the us senate has not led to any kind of assumption of responsibility by the us, while in europe, despite the recognition of violations of fundamental rights and cases of torture, much remains to be done with the investigation and the bringing of those responsible to justice. invoking the concept of 'national security' to conceal abuses and accountability represents an intolerable constraint on transparency, democratic control and fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i appreciated your speech, especially for the commitments you have made for the future. industrial and space policy is fundamental to the growth of our union. this is a sector which is and will be crucial to achieving the 20% target of gross domestic product from manufacturing by 2020. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which has been very helpful and has been very helpful in the past. i would like to emphasize three themes. the first: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life. second point: the cooperation between the european commission, the european space agency, the national authorities and the galileo agency must be strengthened and the institutional apparatus must also be simplified. third point: we must speed up the time to get galileo up and running. i hope that we can really start at the end of 2016 for partial services and in 2020 for full operational capacity. we all believe that space services can provide essential services. galileo, egnos and copernicus also demonstrate the union's ability to manage large financial projects. i believe, commissioner, that if you go ahead along the path you have indicated, you will find the support of the large majority of this parliament. so he can count on us if he is to go ahead and stick to the commitments he made to the members of the european parliament this evening.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that we are at a crucial moment in the definition of a long-term european space strategy, which will maximise the social, employment, economic, scientific and technological benefits of space investment in the european union. a strategy which will be able to guarantee europe, in the short and long term, independent access to space and a dominant position on the global markets in the field of space technologies and services. a great many of these cases have been cited. this will only be possible with consistent and massive support for research and the galileo and copernicus space programmes. it should be remembered that the technologies developed in the context of space research have added value in many other areas. transport, agriculture, humanitarian aid, climate and energy have already been mentioned, but we could talk about all the materials science, electronics, astronomy. the space industry is undergoing profound changes, driven in particular by technological innovations that create opportunities for citizens and a renewed interest in space by the public and private sectors. it is therefore essential to identify possible technical and legislative obstacles and to focus on establishing a coherent and stable regulatory framework to facilitate the commercialisation of services based on spatial data. it is also necessary to give adequate support to the european space industry - i agree with my colleague tajani here - to support entrepreneurship and to promote internationalisation. i'm thinking about financing small and medium-sized businesses.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members of the european parliament for joining us in this debate. hopefully there are a few more meps around because the topic is so important, boosting investments and by doing so strengthening job creation in europe. i will not go to the root causes as to why we are lacking investments. everybody knows many of the reasons, but i would just like to raise some points on what we have already done in order to promote investments and strengthen job creation in europe. as everybody remembers, in the investment plan for europe we had three different parts which are mutually reinforcing. the most important part of the plan is the removal of barriers to investments. there we have national barriers but also european-wide barriers. the commission has paid more attention than before to investment barriers at national levels. for instance, in annual growth surveys and when analysing member states’ economies, we have identified national barriers for investments and some of those findings ended up in the country-specific recommendations. so we are encouraging member states to carry out structural reforms which will boost an investment environment at national and local level. at the same time, we are putting more focus and emphasis on deepening and widening the internal market. the internal market and the whole third pillar of the investment plan, in my mind, is the most influential part in terms of job creation. we have some major projects like the digital single market, the energy union, and the capital market union but one should add to this list also the circular economy package which the commission proposed last year and also decarbonisation of transport. they will all reshape the internal market in europe. just to give you some ideas of what we have already done in terms of creating a better investment environment, we are lowering capital charges for insurance companies investing in long-term infrastructure. we are also making it more possible to find venture capital in europe for small and medium-sized enterprises by launching a new venture capital fund of funds later this year. we are giving guidance on what constitutes state aid. we are making it easier for service providers to expand to the other member states and creating a digital single market. so lots of things are happening on this front and i hope parliament will support these projects. the faster we can deliver on the internal market side, the faster we can get a better business environment and a better investment environment. a second pillar of the investment plan consists of two major initiatives. the first one is an investment advisory hub which is providing technical assistance and advice to private investors, but also to public entities. this is functioning quite well. we already have more than 100 requests, mostly from private companies. they are asking for advice and technical assistance to improve the quality of the projects. for instance, some of the investors are asking for technical assistance on how to benefit from various eu funds. so this is a very elementary and important part of the investment plan because it makes it easier for member states to use the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) but also the other funds and also to create investment platforms collecting together smaller investments, and by doing so it is easier to get financing for smaller projects. the newest creation under the second pillar is the european investment project portal. the idea came from the uk. i visited london and the financiers, for instance investment banks, said that they are able and willing to invest more in european infrastructure but it is sometimes very difficult to find good projects from different countries. their idea was to create a transparent open portal to which both public and private project promoters could send their projects, and the promoters could get better visibility for their projects. so it is some sort of dating service for project promoters and financiers, and it is up and running now. we disclosed it at the beginning of june and i am quite excited to see how well it functions. we have designed the portal together with the private sector in order to make it as pragmatic and practical as possible. so over time there should be thousands of investment projects, and hopefully it functions as we have planned. finally, the first pillar of the efsi plan is also up and running. so far we have used efsi to the tune of eur 12.8 billion for the infrastructure and innovation window but also for sme financing. this eur 12.8 billion is expected to trigger mostly private investment, or public-private partnership investments worth eur 100 billion. of this, 80%, in other words, eur 80 billion out of eur 100 billion, comes from the private sector, so efsi seems to function as planned. it provides risk financing mostly to private investors and by doing so it crowds in private money, which is currently peacefully resting in bank accounts. so there seems to be a lack of risk financing in europe. there is plenty of liquidity everywhere, this is not a problem at the moment, but because we have changed banking regulations this is one of the reasons the banks cannot take as much risk as they did a few years ago. that is why efsi is providing something which is lacking, at least to a large extent, in the market. we have around 65 projects, i mean infrastructure or industrial investment projects, which have got financing from efsi. in addition to this, and i would say more importantly, we have 185 agreements between the european investment fund (eif) and intermediary banks, between the fund and private banks, on sme financing. these 185 agreements between the eif, which has support from efsi, and banks, will provide financing to approximately 150 000 european smes. in italy alone we have 28 banks which have made an agreement with the eif, and 44 000 italian smes will get financing because of these agreements. this is sometimes the fastest way to stimulate the economy. there seems to be a lack of sme financing, especially equity financing, everywhere in europe, even in the most developed markets. that is why i think in the future we have to pay special attention to this sme window, especially in equity financing, because this is something which the market does not offer that much at the moment. of course, we are developing the capital market union in order to improve the capital market environment in europe, but it will always take some time and meanwhile we have to address the market gap by providing efsi financing. the uk has been very active on this issue. the uk is a country which is familiar with financial instruments and that is why british banks have been actively contacting the eif and providing more financing to british businesses. the commission will present a new proposal to prolong efsi later this year. we have to analyse efsi, its achievements and possible weaknesses, and once we have done the analysis we will make a new proposal, which will continue efsi beyond the expiry date which we have at the moment. the main issue in this is to focus on addressing market failure. the main issue is not to make it larger. the main thing is to focus efsi financing on the areas where market does not function properly. also one thing on which we have to be very careful is to provide financing for new innovations which will strengthen the sustainable development of our economies in social terms, in environmental terms, and for instance provide financing to the investments which will promote the circular economy. we are also going to propose some kind of external investment plan. efsi has functioned very well in europe, but we could use the same model also for external financing, especially when trying to achieve development goals. so the commission is looking at the opportunities, how we could use existing development resources in a more efficient way by establishing a new fund which could function in a similar way as the efsi functions but in third countries. the aim is to address the root causes of migration. having said this i do not want to oversell the idea; we cannot address the root causes for migration overnight, or very fast, but anyway we could use our development resources more efficiently and by establishing a new external investment fund we could encourage private investment in third countries and by doing so strengthen economic structures and address the root causes of migration. this idea is at the initial stage but we will come with a proposal hopefully later this year. honourable members, i will stop here and i am very interested to hear your views, how you have seen the investment plan as a whole and maybe the final word here is that we need to cooperate very closely, because meps are representing the european people. you are representing our regions, and the more you are raising awareness amongst investors about the opportunities that efsi can offer, the better. even though we are working very hard every single day advertising efsi opportunities, we are never as efficient as you are if you are meeting local investors, local entrepreneurs and bankers explaining how efsi can help the situation in the regions.
on behalf of the s&d group: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, economic growth, social cohesion, the transition to a sustainable economy, the energy transition, the environment, deficit and debt reduction through growth: that is what europe needs. it is not a blind discipline, it is not suffocation, but oxygen for small and mediumsized enterprises, answers for the unemployed young people, greater competitiveness for our enterprises in the world. that is why we socialists and democrats asked president juncker to provide for a european investment plan and voted for this commission on the basis of this commitment, above all. there have been important results, why deny it? but more can and must be done! there are three critical issues that need to be addressed. first, additionality is a very important aspect. these funds must be additional, not substitute. it cannot be business as usual, the normal work of the eib, otherwise we would not need an investment plan and a special fund. secondly: you have to take a higher risk. i say to the eib that triple a must not be a dogma, otherwise we would not need an investment plan if the projects with the highest risk cannot be financed. thirdly, relations with parliament. you recognized that a moment ago, vice-president katainen. we are the elected citizens, and this plan comes from our intuition and our request. we need a constant relationship with the commission and the european investment bank. we need more listening. we need to work together on the points of suffering, on the points of greatest need for change. we need to work together to get more information from local realities, who need to know and need to be able to apply for these opportunities. in conclusion, we must make this plan a reality by means of an extension, but it must not be an extension for its own sake, it must be an extension aimed at making this plan a serious, convincing and concrete response to the economic and social crisis which europe is deeply experiencing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what i witnessed this morning was a complete celebration of the commission. he said that 44 000 small and mediumsized enterprises had been financed in italy. i went to the commission's website and there are eight projects, many of them unsustainable from an environmental and also social point of view. i can tell you that there is an extension of a motorway, the a4, and explain to me how it is environmentally sustainable to still rely on the automobile, the refinery in milazzo, then oil, then the arvedi steelworks, steel, and the gas network. gas does not seem to me to be a renewable source, and so i cannot understand why the greens are also applauding it. the commission's concept of smes, if we look at the definition of what is an sme eligible for efsi funding, also covers companies with up to 3 000 employees. i want to see how many companies of this type there are in italy. so a total self-celebration for a project that is a failure. now you want to do something similar for developing countries. well, i want to see transparency on this kind of system, because we always sin there: we go to finance projects and then we see that the subcontractors always split the usual. transparency is the first watchword.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the data, i think we can say that on the one hand the efsi formula can work and, in many cases, it is working. for example, there is no doubt that the sme window is producing very high additionality, leverage, and is producing positive results. but it is also true, especially if we look at the infrastructure and innovation window, that we can and must do better and do more. i would like to stress the following. first of all, i believe that the involvement of the national development banks should be strengthened. secondly, we need to see more platforms created in different countries and even transnational. finally, we must do more to help combine the structural funds with efsi funding. we have examples, the nord-pas-de-calais case, of intermediate and junior tranches with european funds, but these are still isolated cases. this combination, together with the national platforms, i believe is the key to enabling efsi to really address market failures across the european territory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the juncker plan we are finally focusing on investment. we finally talk about development, which is our real big problem. we see the glass half full, the first results, but it would be wrong to be too enthusiastic, it would be wrong not to see the problems. first of all: environment and sustainable development and the transition to a circular economy must be a clear strategic priority. that's not what we're talking about. secondly: we must finance new projects, additional projects, as they are called. if we only finance projects which are mature and supported by the market, we do not go far enough, we do not make any progress. thirdly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, i will be the rapporteur for the regi committee on the mid-term review of the efsi. as other colleagues have said, we think that the cooperation between the efsi and the esif, the structural funds, is still insufficient. in particular, where there are market failures, there is a need for greater cooperation with the structural funds and, in particular, with the 'grants' part of the structural funds. the commission has also been able to demonstrate that the poorest regions are those where the efsi is still limited and has not had a pulling effect. secondly, we need more ambition: 100 billion activated in a year of investment in europe is a drop in the bucket. you know very well that with the crisis, investments have been greatly reduced. there's about 500 billion left in the appeal, and so i think we have to move forward if we're going to have a really big impact.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am going to cut to the chase. two points: the plan does not have a predefined geographical and sectoral location, because there is a high concentration of investment in a few countries, including those less affected by the crisis, and when you invest in renewable energy, you do so by favouring large companies, and not self-production and self-sufficiency. second point: lack of clarity and transparency on the operation of credit lines and funds granted to banks and large financial groups. i remember there were several private equity funds. commissioner, you say that the 12.8 billion figure is 100 billion. are you expecting us? be transparent and precise. how much money did you get? - who? where? where? under what conditions? are you funding the real economy or creating a new financial bubble? what happened to leverage? one for fifteen: but 12.8 billion times 15 is not 100 billion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the investment plan, which certainly needs to be extended, has among its priorities, i would remind you, education and the cultural and creative industries. but these two sectors have hardly noticed it, as your sectoral analysis shows. apart from a few countries like my own, italy, which has launched an ambitious 'digital school' plan where the efsi is actually in addition to public resources and the deposit and loan fund, there are few projects around. as we have already said to mr navracsics and the european investment bank in the committee on culture, the commission and the eib must play a proactive european leadership role in this extraordinary plan, as a great opportunity for employment, innovation and transition, not just waiting for projects that do not arrive. national and european platforms should be promoted, including those facilitating access to schools, universities, as well as creative and audiovisual smes, with more targeted advice to these actors. i am thinking of some of the proposals we have put forward, such as the e-card for european students, the e-learning platform, the online recognition of skills, and platforms for the promotion of cultural industries.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i will make a few comments. i will try to group my answers to your questions together. first, around 30% of efsi projects are in the energy field and mostly in the renewable energy efficiency field. some of our colleagues said that there were no projects in energy efficiency. that is a complete mistake. efsi provides risk financing for new technologies and innovative projects and that is very good because this is what we all wanted. for everybody who is concerned about projects already financed – or if there are some areas which have not been covered, like the circular economy for instance – i strongly encourage everybody to be active with the people who are operating in, for instance, the circular economy field to raise awareness of what efsi can provide for them. i do this every single day. i go around europe explaining the opportunities efsi has to offer, for instance, new innovations and circular economy projects, but unfortunately the level of awareness varies between the member states. now, i will come to the point concerning why some member states have not benefited very much from efsi already. it is mostly – if you look at it very concretely – because public authorities have not been active in promoting efsi opportunities. as we all know, efsi does not finance pure public projects, but very often regional authorities, national authorities and ministers play a role when raising awareness about what efsi can do among the private sector – private investors – and there are huge differences between member states. some ministers have even indicated very clearly when i met them that if there were not more trains coming to their country, then they were not interested in efsi at all. i asked them, if they were not interested, to please convey the message to investors in the private sector that they could contact the eib directly. private investors in many countries are hearing for the first time, even though we have repeated it over and over again, that they do not need any public sector approval if they want to apply for resources from efsi. we just have to repeat this over and over again. that is why i have repeated here a couple of times that we need your help. in some member states some meps have been very active at regional level, conveying the message that companies can apply directly for resources from the eib. another point is that we have commission representations in all the member states, which are ready to serve both public authorities and regional authorities, but also the private sector, to explain what efsi can do. in most member states too we have eib offices, which are there for technical assistance and advice. in many member states we have seen excellent events organised by the private sector itself or by political parties, for instance, or by public authorities, to which they have invited private investors, entrepreneurs, industrialists and regional leaders, and to which the eib has sent its representatives and the commission has sent its representatives to explain what efsi has done in other countries. we have to do this more in all the member states. so there are some attitude problems. some member states are very passive but we try to contact the private sector directly in those member states where the public authorities have not been the most active. when looking at the projects, there were a few concerns about whether efsi has financed motorways without good reason. actually the few motorway investments which have benefited from efsi have been technically the most difficult, there has been uncertainty about the traffic and it has been very difficult to attract private financing for those projects. before you condemn those projects, i really encourage you to look at them and discuss them, for instance, with the efsi management because they can explain in more detail why they have selected those projects. we are helping – although it is not our primary duty – member states to create platforms for green shipping, for instance. this means that we try to collect together port investment and other green shipping types of investment in order to spread efsi to the areas where there have not been any projects so far. i visited greece for the second time a month ago. i met representatives from the five biggest banks in greece and tried to explain what they could do for smes for instance. in greece too it was the first time that greek banks had heard that they could apply directly for resources from efsi for smes. i understand all the difficulties that the greek banks have, but another idea which i raised there was to build an investment platform, for instance in the tourism sector, which means, basically that the platform could collect together a large amount of small—sized investment – for instance hotel renovation projects or things like that – and the private sector could put some equity in the platform while efsi could provide, for instance, long—term, very low interest rate loans to the entrepreneurs. i am a hundred percent sure that these would function in greece. i spoke about it with the greek authorities and the greek government and we have very close cooperation with the greek government on this issue. so i do want to see this happening in greece. the same thing would also function in cyprus. there were lots of other issues. mr nicholson, you raised northern ireland and why northern ireland has not benefited from the efsi yet. i do not know what the northern ireland authorities have done or have not done, but we have our representation there at the authorities’ disposal. i visited there personally and i tried to convey the message to the private sector in northern ireland that they could apply resources directly from efsi and it would be good to establish a platform for smaller projects. so everything is possible, in northern ireland too. all member states have the same opportunities and in those member states which have been the least active, the commission, and even my cabinet directly, try to help the authorities understand how they could utilise the opportunities we have at our disposal. i will stop here. we have mostly been talking about efsi and this is only one part of the investment plan. i want to underline the importance of the single market project. i will repeat once more that hopefully parliament and the council can adopt and approve the proposals from mr ansip on the digital single market and from commissioner vella on the circular economy, etc. this is even more important than what efsi can do because, when we take down barriers to investment, it has a big impact on growth and on sustainable growth.
in writing. in today's debate in the house, the commission presented a first budget for the juncker plan, one year after its launch; on the one hand, it is possible to say that important results have been achieved over 100 billion investments disbursed, with 65 projects funded and more than 150 000 smes involved on the other hand, i am convinced that more needs to be done. i believe that the efsi should focus on additionality and finance innovative projects with higher risk, which would otherwise not find regular funding opportunities, in order to maximise its leverage and create added value for the european industrial and social fabric. secondly, i believe that the success of the juncker plan must come from better integration with the existing structural funds, with the aim of involving more local authorities and the poorest and most deprived areas. the juncker plan is already providing a tangible stimulus to economic growth, offering vital new oxygen to our companies and smes. it is the most effective response to the economic and social crisis of recent years and to the lack of investment in europe. we must work to make it even more ambitious and effective.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the epp group i strongly support this type of measure. i think there is urgency, i think there is urgency for the reasons that have already been explained. i try to make those reasons count. first of all, the european union's neighbourhood policy, an important policy, an effective instrument, especially when it is intended for a project of democracy, a project of freedom. the effects of this project are certainly necessary for europe itself. this project is about maintaining certain borders, about maintaining the centrality of a drama, of a big problem like migration, on which, in some ways, we continue to postpone decisions, and so we need to concentrate on policies that are effective. on the other hand, there is the great problem of the structural reforms that tunisia needs. the reforms that we are going to need, let us remember, are not 500 million but 5 billion euros. of course, 500 million is a fundamental input of certainty that fulfils the condition of progress in the right direction. the ppe therefore strongly supports it, the ppe has not tabled amendments which would impede it or which are instrumental. but it is clear that the rules and regulations cannot be overridden, and so we say that we are overriding this aspect in the name of urgency and in the name of a european interest, but certainly also in the name of a country like tunisia.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the very serious situation in which tunisia finds itself today. it has been mentioned earlier: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this first aid, and unfortunately this loan of 500 million euros, is not enough. we support it, but we believe that human rights and solidarity should be exported to tunisia, not austerity. we must therefore also give real aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. democracy cannot exist where there are some people rich enough to buy it and some people poor enough to sell it. we must tell the tunisian people this, and if we do not support them we will really risk the whole of the maghreb exploding.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is right to help tunisia to emerge from the serious economic crisis it is suffering, following the attacks which have also affected a key sector such as tourism. we are therefore voting against the commission proposal, just as we have already voted against the measures concerning the tunisian oil quotas. the urgency of the need for support for the tunisian people cannot be translated into an instrument such as the macrofinancial assistance accompanying the international monetary fund programmes and the related structural reform agenda that is being imposed on tunisia. over the past 23 years, tunisia's economic and social policies have been dictated by the washington consensus and the prescriptions of the international monetary fund, prescriptions which have only increased inequalities. we therefore think that this should not be the case, that the debt should be renegotiated, that ben ali's assets should be returned to the country and that development and employment projects should be supported. that is what aid should be for, not a loan to finance other loans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the changes that have taken place in our southern neighbourhood since 2011, tunisia seems to be the only successful example of democratic consolidation. this has enabled the country to acquire the status of a privileged partner and to become a key stabilizing actor in the region, which is being strained by the libyan issue. tunisia has been hit repeatedly by terrorist attacks, which have brought the tunisian economy to its knees, and unemployment remains very high. economic and financial resources are needed to implement reforms and support civil society. of course, tunisia will have to do its part. well, then, the 500 million made available. but, commissioner katainen, this parliament is telling you that we must do more on the facsimile than we are doing for ukraine, in the knowledge that the political stupidity of the nationalists would certainly not understand that tunisia can also play an important role for the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tunisia has managed to strengthen its process of consolidating democracy in a significant way in the space of a few years and is now a real hope in the arab mediterranean context. but economically, it has a crumbling economy. the country has been repeatedly targeted by bombings and terrorist attacks that have affected the tourism sector, the real heart of the tunisian economy. europe must be able to provide adequate support for this delicate phase in the country's history. the proposal to provide additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia to support the economic stabilisation of the country and the substantial reform programme should be welcomed. in this way europe will be able to show its solidarity and determination by giving a boost to the country which gave rise to the arab spring and which is certainly a model for promoting peace and democracy in the middle east, north america and the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a decision setting up a committee of inquiry into the panama papers scandal. the request was submitted by 377 members, including myself, to investigate allegations of infringement and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. these are serious allegations and crimes which have already had a number of political consequences. the 65-member committee of inquiry will have 12 months from this vote to report and shed light on the matter and the allegations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of the commission of inquiry into the panama papers
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the decision to set up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. all too often, the community rules against money laundering are not properly applied. billions of euros disappear every year in tax havens, depriving european citizens of valuable resources that could be invested in education, health, public services and the fight against poverty. that is why we need full transparency and sanctions for those in europe who help european individuals and companies to evade taxes. it is essential that this committee of inquiry can also make any recommendations on the implementation by member states of the commission's recommendations concerning measures to encourage third countries to apply minimum standards of good governance in tax matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i believe that a committee of inquiry can be useful in examining complaints of failure by the commission to enforce and by the member states to implement and enforce the directives that have been decided. i am convinced that such a body can help to achieve better control and organisation and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate possible administrative irregularities in the application of community law in tax matters. the committee will be responsible for examining complaints of failure by member state authorities to apply administrative sanctions to institutions responsible for serious breaches of national provisions. the work of the committee of inquiry will be useful in tackling instances of maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution decides to set up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i voted in favour of the resolution because my vote is intended to support all kinds of activities which can help to promote a better and more harmonized application of tax rules, including through greater transparency in public administration, and to eliminate possible abuses in the application of tax rules which give certain states a competitive disadvantage compared to others.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because it is necessary to clarify this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution establishing and regulating the functioning of a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches and maladministration and the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance, which i was one of the proponents of the institution formulated at the conference of presidents. i fully shared the need to give the committee a broad mandate, including the possibility to examine allegations of non-compliance by the commission and member states in enforcing and implementing all anti-money laundering directives, their timely and effective implementation, to examine potential breaches of the duty of sincere cooperation under the treaties, where relevant, and to make any recommendations it considers necessary also on the implementation by member states of the 2012 commission recommendations on measures to encourage third countries to apply minimum rules of good governance in tax matters and aggressive tax planning. the committee will also be able to assess the latest developments in the commission's external strategy for effective taxation and the links between the eu and member states' legal frameworks. the commission will have 12 months to achieve these important objectives.
in writing. we have approved the creation of a committee of inquiry to clarify the situation of offshore companies and their beneficiaries, following the panama papers scandal. the committee will investigate alleged breaches and cases of non-compliance with eu rules on money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. it will also examine complaints of failure by member states' authorities to apply administrative sanctions to institutions found guilty of serious breaches of national provisions and to examine complaints of failure by member states to enforce the provisions of the tfeu in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i would like to give reasons for my vote in favour of the creation of a committee of inquiry into the panama papers scandal and any responsibilities of the commission and the member states in relation to the implementation of community directives. as i have said on other occasions in this chamber, tax evasion and avoidance and money laundering are practices which, on the one hand, drain economic resources from the state budget, and reduce its capacity to invest in promoting employment and combating poverty, and, on the other hand, undermine citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the setting up of a committee of inquiry into the panama papers scandal, together with the adoption of the new eu anti-piracy directive, is therefore the best way of giving a concrete response to the democratic needs of citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is well known that criminal conduct involving the use of money of criminal origin leads to a disturbance of market economic mechanisms. i believe that the request by 337 members for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance gives the european union a decisive role to play in this area. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ parliament has decided to set up a committee of inquiry into the 'panama papers', the revelations about offshore companies and their beneficiaries. the commission will be responsible for investigating alleged breaches and cases of non-compliance by the commission or member states with community rules on money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. the committee will have 65 members and will have 12 months to present its final report. the mandate of the committee of inquiry was agreed on thursday 2 june by the conference of presidents of the european parliament. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision establishing a committee of inquiry to investigate cases of maladministration in the application of union law. parliament has long been engaged in a genuine fight against evasion and avoidance, ranging from money laundering to tax evasion and avoidance and to the union's competences. the establishment of this committee of inquiry clearly represents the line taken by the parliamentary assembly in this matter and to which i express my support.
in writing. i supported the establishment of the panama papers commission of inquiry which will be mandated to investigate the failure of banks and authorities to apply european laws against money laundering, evasion and avoidance. the spotlight will be on the role played by banks in creating a parallel world where they launder dirty money and hide vast sums of stolen money from the public, with the support of thousands of eu-based consultancies and law firms, at the intolerable complaisance of european governments and regulators. it is precisely in the obscure banking system protected by europe's false transparency and 'banking secrecy' that the origin of the problem and the solution must be sought. this will suffice: introduction of exemplary sanctions, up to the withdrawal of the banking licence, for banks that are complicit in abuses; maximum transparency, traceability and publicity of financial flows and tax information; effective and seamless anti-money laundering legislation, including trusts, and introducing a mandatory publicly accessible register of ultimate beneficiaries. these are obviously simple measures whose implementation depends solely on the political will to change. the problem is that the status quo is too convenient for this europe that is subservient to the interests of big business and the banks.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a step forward in relations between the european union and the state of palau. i voted in favour of the possibility of reducing the bureaucratic burden on the free movement of persons when travelling for business, tourism or family reunification. this vote is a further sign of the strengthening of economic policy relations between these states and the union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report approving the agreement between the eu and palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and palau who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. this is an important agreement which will help to intensify relations with the pacific state and to develop a more regular political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the text of the eu-palau agreement on short-stay visas is well structured and has no problems. i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the republic of palau is now a democratic country with a strong rule of law and respect for human rights, and has been very active in recent years in promoting and defending the principle of equality between men and women. in this context, i believe that the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and that territory on the reciprocal exemption from the visa requirement for short stays is an important instrument which, by promoting trade, investment and the development of tourism, can further strengthen cooperation between the two political entities and encourage the promotion of these principles at international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is to be seen as the crowning achievement of the good relations between the european union and the republic of palau. relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the short-stay visa waiver is, in my view, of great political significance in the cotonou agreement and is a concrete instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and facilitating political dialogue on various issues still on the table, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement can have a positive effect by simplifying travel conditions for businessmen and facilitating tourism. i would like to point out that palau's economy is mainly based on the service sector, which accounts for 86% of gdp, with a growing tourism sector, also thanks to the increase in the number of flights serving the island.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver has important political significance and marks an important milestone in the eu's relations with other countries. it is also an instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the state of tonga has fulfilled the requirements for access.
in writing. ‒ the visa waiver agreement was signed in brussels on 7 december 2015 and will be fully implemented after the approval of the european parliament. the document provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay. the agreement excludes stays, even if short, for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. the political and economic stability of the republic of palau and the absence of situations of repatriation or irregular immigration by palau citizens are the basis for the conclusion of the agreement which can have positive effects for both parties. the simplification of visa procedures will facilitate investment in the island which, together with the increase in the number of flights to this destination, will be able to promote the development of tourism, which is an important part of the territory's economy. for the reasons i have just given, i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the strengthening of the number of flights serving palau has allowed the development of a strong tourist economy which is still growing. i am convinced that the short-stay visa exemption for the republic of palau can really simplify the conditions for many entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and stimulate tourism. this exemption would also further strengthen relations between the european union and the republic of palau by strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues. moreover, the country poses no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. i strongly believe in this initiative because it shows europe's willingness to make agreements with third countries in order to facilitate the movement of those who would have had unpleasant difficulties before. i therefore voted in favour for the reasons stated above.
in writing. ‒ the proposed agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an important tool for strengthening relations between the european union and the republic of palau. the agreement would strengthen economic and cultural relations and help develop political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of the project also because of the benefits it would bring to tourism, investment and entrepreneurship. the agreement would also provide an opportunity for the republic of palau to invest more in its resources, such as fisheries and tourism, and to enhance the diversification of the economy in order to reduce its dependence on external assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and the republic of palau, as it is a key instrument for strengthening economic, political and cultural relations between the two parties. palau is a democratic republic which fully respects human rights as enshrined in its constitution. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership and to travel more economically and conveniently.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as it contains no critical elements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this agreement as it aims to strengthen the ties between the eu and the republic of palau and deepen the cooperation between us. palau shares many of the values of the european union; such as democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance; and i hope that this agreement can serve to be a step towards a more enhanced political dialogue between the eu and the republic of palau. the agreement would also make business travel easier and serve to facilitate investment and boost tourism between the eu and palau.
in writing. the purpose of the eu-republic of palau agreement is governed by the cotonou agreement, the objective of which is to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas. it shall take into account both the situation of member states which do not implement the schengen treaty and the exemption from the visa requirement for citizens of the eu and of the republic of palau travelling to other territories for a period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this exemption applies to all categories of persons, irrespective of the reason for their stay, except for persons staying for the purpose of carrying out an activity as an employed person. it will simplify travel and investment, stimulate tourism and strengthen economic and cultural relations, as well as political dialogue on sensitive issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. for these reasons, i agree to the implementation of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the eu-palau agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement is the result of the intention to deepen relations between the european union and the republic of palau, thus intensifying cultural and economic relations. the simplification of travel conditions facilitates and encourages investment and thus generalises improvement. these are some of the main reasons why i am in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver for those intending to travel between the eu and palau is a further confirmation of the policy of rapprochement between european citizens and pacific citizens, as stated by my colleague in her report. i also note that the measure will allow for an increase in travel which will bring benefits both in terms of investment and tourism. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the republic of palau are governed by the partnership agreement, known as the 'cotonou agreement'. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the republic of palau to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for those for the purpose of gainful employment. i voted in favour of this agreement because it represents the conclusion of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau, and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of both countries when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. i am in favour of this type of measure which, as the report presented to the plenary underlines, will simplify travel conditions for businesses and citizens in general, thus stimulating economic investment and the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a step forward in relations between the european union and the state of tonga. i voted in favour of the possibility of reducing the bureaucratic burden on the free movement of persons when travelling for business, tourism or family reunification. this vote is a further sign of the strengthening of economic policy relations between these states and the union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report approving the agreement concluded between the eu and tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of tonga who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the agreement will allow for the intensification of the partnership with the kingdom of tonga, fostering future cooperation on issues such as the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against violence against women and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the report on the granting of tourist visas between the eu and tonga is well-articulated and coherent, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the new agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver as a privileged instrument to support cooperation, trade and the development of tourism in both territories; the european union is also a tool for strengthening ties and promoting greater mutual understanding between the peoples of europe and the peoples of the pacific.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that the short-stay visa waiver is a further step towards intensifying the eu's political dialogue with tonga. tonga's economy is based mainly on agriculture and fishing, which account for 20% of gdp, and the services sector, which accounts for 60% of gdp, with a tourism sector that is gradually developing. although the eu is currently of little relevance to tonga in terms of trade, trade has considerable potential for development. the kingdom of tonga, let us not forget, has considerable wind power capacity and is putting considerable emphasis on renewable energy and energy efficiency. the agreement on visa exemption will, i am sure, have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourist sector. this important measure constitutes a concrete support for the country concerned and rewards the many efforts undertaken. to this end, i would point out that tonga has made considerable progress, most notably in its decision to ratify the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver has important political significance and marks an important milestone in the eu's relations with other countries. it is also an instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the state of tonga has fulfilled the requirements for access.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga have strengthened considerably over the past decade. tonga's economy is based mainly on agriculture and fishing, as well as the services sector, which accounts for 60% of gdp with tourism-related activities being progressively developed. although the flow of investment between the eu and tonga has remained fairly limited in recent years, there is a strong potential for development. the country has made great progress recently, particularly in the protection of human rights, by promoting awareness-raising activities on issues such as the death penalty and freedom of religion and belief. the political and economic stability achieved in recent years in the country provides the right guarantees for granting short-stay visa-free travel to citizens of the kingdom of tonga in europe, an opening which will help to strengthen relations between the two parties, boosting trade and tourist flows. the absence of asylum applications and the low visa refusal rate led to the conclusion that the country poses no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of public security and order. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ although the eu's trade with tonga is small in numbers, the kingdom of tonga has considerable potential for development, particularly in the tourism sector. i am in favour of this proposal for a short-stay visa waiver which highlights the good relationship between the parties. i am convinced that the exemption agreement will bring benefits by facilitating tourism. in addition, it can be concluded that the country poses no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of public security and order. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of visa-free travel for eu citizens and tongan citizens who wish to travel to each other's territory for short periods of time. the aim of this agreement is to promote relations between the eu and the state of tonga, to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. in addition, such an agreement would promote the tourism sector for the kingdom of tonga and bring benefits to its economy based on the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and the kingdom of tonga, as it is a key instrument for strengthening economic, political and cultural relations between the two parties. it will encourage people-to-people contacts between these countries, providing new business opportunities through increased tourism and facilitating the promotion of eu-tonga trade relations.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as it contains no critical elements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this agreement between the eu and the kingdom of tonga as this agreement serves to deepen the economic and political relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga. i also believe that this agreement could send out a strong message of support for the progress that has been made in fundamental freedoms in the kingdom of tonga since the country’s first democratic elections in 2010 and allow the eu to influence future progress in the country.
in writing. as in the case of the eu-republic of palau agreement, we vote for the strengthening of economic and cultural relations with the kingdom of tonga. its economy is based on fishing, agriculture and the export of unprocessed agricultural products, and it also has considerable capacity to generate electricity from wind power. it is therefore stated that the envisaged visa exemption will bring positive improvements both in investment and in the development of the tourism sector; it will also bring the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together and enable citizens to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership by ensuring that they can travel more economically and more conveniently.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the eu-tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement is the result of the intention to deepen relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, thus intensifying cultural and economic relations. the simplification of travel conditions facilitates and encourages investment and thus generalises improvement.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement, which sets out the framework for relations between the kingdom of tonga and the eu, is a partnership agreement whose main objectives are poverty eradication and sustainable development. i believe that the short-stay visa waiver can strengthen the dialogue between the parties on the above issues, thus supporting a consolidation of cultural and economic ties. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the kingdom of tonga is a young country that is increasingly developing its tourism sector, which is gradually replacing the agricultural and fisheries sectors, once the state's main resources. the agreement will thus strengthen relations between the two parties, give new impetus to trade and boost tourism. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement because it represents the conclusion of the deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, and it has an important political and economic significance in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ similar to the agreement with the republic of palau, the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the exemption from the visa requirement for nationals of the contracting parties travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for short periods represents an important opportunity for economic recovery and the deepening of good political and cultural relations between the countries concerned. that is why i voted in favour of the recommendation put forward by mr gabriel.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a step forward in relations between the european union and colombia. i voted in favour of the possibility of reducing the bureaucratic burden on the free movement of persons when travelling for business, tourism or family reunification. this vote is a further sign of the strengthening of economic policy relations between these states and the union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report approving the agreement concluded between the eu and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of colombia when they visit the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the agreement will also make possible future cooperation on politically relevant issues such as human rights, impunity and the protection of the rights of children and women in particular in armed conflicts.
in writing. ‒ the text of the eu-colombia agreement on short-stay visas contains unclear passages, which convinced me to prefer an abstention vote.
in writing. ‒ the drafting of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver is an important instrument for deepening economic relations and cooperation between the two territories in question, while supporting the development of european soft power in the world. it will also strengthen cultural relations between the two areas and intensify political dialogue on a wide range of issues, in particular respect for and protection of human rights and the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. only by working closely and in a timely manner, through an inclusive process, with a context such as that of colombia, which is the origin of many of the flows of illegal products into the european union, can we hope to tackle the complex transnational issues mentioned above more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of colombia when travelling to each other's territory for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the agreement will help to strengthen economic and cultural relations between the eu and colombia and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. it will also help to strengthen the regional coherence of eu policies, as colombia is one of the few latin american countries whose citizens still require a visa and remains a significant factor in bringing the european and colombian peoples closer together.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver is an important step in the deepening of relations between the european union and third countries. colombia has the characteristics (i.e. fulfils certain conditions) to allow this measure to be introduced without problems.
in writing. ‒ colombia is a trade partner with great potential, as it has a dynamic and fast-growing economy, thanks also to its availability of natural and agricultural resources that attract a lot of investment. although there are still risks from the point of view of irregular immigration, it can be seen that the situation has improved considerably and i believe that europe can benefit from this agreement in many ways. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of an agreement with the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver would be an important achievement for the european union's relations with colombia and an opportunity to strengthen economic and cultural relations. the agreement would also open up a political dialogue on the protection of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. i voted in favour of approving this agreement, which would also bring mutual economic benefits from the intensification of trade and economic relations between the european area and the republic of colombia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and the republic of colombia, because it is a key instrument for strengthening economic, political and cultural relations between the two parties. colombia has become a key partner for the eu in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, especially drug trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because colombia is a country with a high emigration and not yet stable.
in writing. ‒ i voted to adopt this agreement between the eu and the republic of colombia on short-stay visa waiver as i believe that this agreement will serve as a good stepping stone to further political, economic and cultural cooperation between the eu and colombia. the colombian economy has experienced rapid growth during the last years and the eu is its second largest trading partner while itself being the eu’s fourth largest trading partner in the region. allowing visa free travel will serve to achieve closer business links and facilitate investments and tourism in both the eu and in colombia. lastly i believe that an intensified political dialogue with colombia could allow us to deepen our cooperation on several other issues such as security issues and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the eu-colombia agreement, and also of the similar recommendations on the council decisions concerning the agreements with the kingdom of tonga and palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreements underlying these decisions provide for visa-free travel for nationals of both parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period and cover all categories, regardless of the reason for their stay, except for those for the purpose of gainful employment. i very much welcome the conclusion of these agreements, because they certainly represent an important opportunity to deepen relations between the european union and the countries mentioned, as well as a further instrument for improving economic and cultural relations through an open and frank political dialogue on the main issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open the visa waiver agreement for citizens of the european union and for citizens of colombia travelling to other territories for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner and for this reason this agreement completes the relationship established between the two states and is also an appropriate instrument for strengthening economic, cultural and political relations and will tend to strengthen economic links between the different enterprises, also facilitating investment. i also believe that colombia can become a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, with particular reference to drug trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement is based on the intention to deepen relations between the european union and colombia, thus intensifying cultural and economic relations. the simplification of travel conditions facilitates and encourages investment and thus generalises improvement. colombia is also an important trading partner and this treaty certainly also encourages closer dialogue on issues such as human rights. finally, it can become a key partner in the field of security and the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver will allow the political dialogue between the parties to develop; the dialogue is governed by the 1996 rome declaration and the memorandum of understanding signed in 2009. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states regarding the lack of transparency in the application of the schengen acquis. i feel i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of colombia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. colombia is the eu's fourth largest trading partner in the region, with a trade volume of eur 11.884 billion. the eu is colombia's second largest trading partner. foreign trade accounts for about 20% of gdp. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, strengthen economic links between businesses and facilitate investment. i voted in favour of this agreement because it represents an opportunity to develop economic relations and tourism, another key sector for the development of this country which could attract many european citizens both as tourists and as investors.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver for nationals of the countries concerned in the territory of the contracting party represents an important milestone in the history of relations between europe and colombia and an instrument for intensifying the political, economic and cultural dialogue between the two parties. for all these reasons and in line with the position of my group, the epp, i voted in favour of the recommendation put forward by mr gabriel.
in writing. ‒ the first ita was concluded in singapore in 1997, with 29 countries initially joining and 82 now joining. the main purpose of the agreement is to reduce and then eliminate tariffs on a number of computer products, such as telephones, computers, and machinery. the catalogue of goods has been expanded over time. the benefits of the ita, such as cost reduction, improved interactions and development, will be even more visible in 2019, the deadline for the complete elimination of duties. however, there are criticisms in the text which have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the quisthoudt-rowohl report approving the agreement on the enlargement of trade in information technology products. the aim of the text is to eliminate customs duties on all information technology products such as computers and telephones, but also on inputs, components and machinery for the production of computer goods. the first ita, signed in 1996, had to be expanded to include 201 new products whose trade value was estimated at over usd 1.3 billion a year, about 10% of total global trade today. the enlargement of the ita is an important milestone and will have enormous potential for job creation and for boosting gdp growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote is unbalanced and not acceptable. i think that this text raises criticisms of our companies, which would have to fight even harder against the often unfair competition of third countries. the eu should protect the production and interests of its own producers and not those of the rest of the world. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today gave its approval to the extension of an important, though little-known, agreement, the information technology agreement (ita), concluded in the wto. the agreement, signed in singapore in 1996 and entering into force the following year, has expanded over time to include more and more participants, from the original 29 signatories to the 82 of today, representing over 90% of world trade in computer goods. after more than 20 years, in the light of the rapid and many developments in this field, the agreement needed to be revised in a comprehensive way and this is what the european parliament has said today. the extension of the agreement agreed by the strasbourg assembly provides for the liberalization of 201 new articles, including gps, touch-screen, telecommunications satellites and medical equipment. in addition to strengthening the multilateral trading system in the information technology sector, the enlargement of the agreement should encourage exports of these products from the eu, to the benefit of our manufacturing sector, and translate into greater supply and lower prices for consumers.
in writing. ‒ improving the ability to source and sell ict products at lower prices is certainly a positive thing, but for the agreement to be of real benefit to the eu and its member states, it is necessary to ensure that the removal of customs barriers is actually done in a fair way by all contracting parties. it is also necessary to exercise caution in phasing in the application of the agreement and in encouraging the accession to the ita of as many third countries as possible in order to maximise the union's trade advantage as a world leader in the sector with over eur 189 billion of annual exports to non-european countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i consider it of great importance and timeliness for the eu to conclude an agreement on the enlargement of trade in information technology products (ita). i believe that this agreement will result in lower prices for both consumers and producers. the first agreement on information technology was concluded at the ministerial meeting in singapore in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. today the ita has 82 participants. during the almost 20 years of application of the agreement, technological progress has radically changed the it sector, while the products covered by the ita have remained unchanged. the products covered by this agreement include next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products, printed circuit board machine tools, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. it is expected that by 2019 almost all imports of the products concerned will be duty free. the enlargement of the ita is crucial because it represents the first real agreement aimed at tariff reduction since the world trade organisation was established.
in writing. ‒ the agreement seems to be generally accepted worldwide without any particular protests. the wto itself considers it to be one of the best agreements ever negotiated at international level. however, the ituc had expressed criticism about this in 2013 so i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is the progressive abolition of customs duties on a certain quantity of information technology products. it is a matter of updating the old agreement, which was concluded 20 years ago and is now full of obsolete products and still lacking in everything that has been invented since then. trade in these products is now estimated at over $1.3 billion, representing 10% of global trade today. in addition, this agreement will result in lower prices for consumers and greater choice. for these reasons i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the information technology agreement is a step in the right direction towards the progressive reduction of customs barriers and the promotion of trade in information technology products. the exemption from data requirements granted to ita participants has already demonstrated the benefits in terms of expanding trade in information technology. the agreement will also promote more competitive prices for consumers and producers who rely on imported components. however, it should be borne in mind that progressive technological development implies constant change in the it sector, which should update the products contained in the ita agreement, which are unchanged at the moment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution, which i voted for, authorises the council to conclude the international agreement on the enlargement of trade in information technology products. this agreement aims to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products worth over $1.3 billion a year. the economic benefits of the agreement will accrue to european and third country consumers and producers and will result in a greater boost to the european manufacturing sector which will enjoy easier access to new markets, in the creation of new jobs, lower costs for consumers and a boost to innovation.
in writing. ‒ the declaration on trade in information technology products (ita) is one of the major outcomes of the 10th wto ministerial conference last december, in a context that remains difficult for the advancement of the doha development agenda. in nairobi, 82 wto partners agreed to amend the ita agreement to include some 200 additional high-tech products. these include components for computers and telephones, television screens, as well as gps navigation systems and medical equipment such as scanners and mri machines. the agreement, which covers 97% of trade in this sector, will see the gradual elimination of duties on each product, with an estimated global economic value of over $1.3 billion. the most important result, however, will be the direct impact on consumers: the commission has also concluded that the measures under investigation are in line with the principles of the common fisheries policy. the hope is that the european union, together with its partners, will be able to keep pace with one of the fastest growing sectors in world trade over the last decade, with policies that foster innovation and the development of the digital economy and protect citizens and consumers. that is why i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itp) because i believe that the expansion of itp is essential for the growth of trade in it products. this is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the wto was set up, and it could bring immense benefits in terms of job creation and gdp growth.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it could be a danger to our production system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itp) so that all countries belonging to the world trade organisation can benefit from this agreement, which represents a valid and decisive step forward for the technological development and growth of trade volumes in europe and which fully reflects today's economic realities. the liberalization of trade in high-tech goods, albeit gradually, is a necessary prerequisite for progress.
in writing. this recommendation on the expansion of trade in information technology products aims to provide for the elimination of tariff lines by 10 july 2016. this is the result of what was discussed at the wto ministerial conference in nairobi. the subject of this agreement is gps navigation systems, 200 tariff lines, medical instruments such as magnetic resonance imaging, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. most of the tariffs not considered sensitive will be eliminated upon entry into force of the said agreement. the first tariff reductions are planned for 1 july 2016 through an expedited authorisation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the expansion of trade in information technology products (ita). the agreement provides for duty exemption for all information technology products. the products covered by this agreement include next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, printed circuit board machine tools, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. this exemption from customs duties, granted to ita participants, has played a decisive role in the expansion of trade.
in writing. ‒ twenty years after its signature, the agreement on trade in information technology products (ita) was in danger of becoming obsolete, given the incredible technological advances in the sector. we therefore welcome the dismantling of tariff lines for a further 201 products, many of which did not exist in 1996. europe, with 196.7 billion in exports between 2011 and 2013 and a positive trade balance, is a net exporter and a global leader in the production of technology goods. the ita will also benefit consumers and intermediate producers with significantly lower product prices and will of course support exports. the agreement will therefore benefit european businesses and workers with increased growth, better access to foreign markets and support for employment. the agreement, reached at the world trade organisation ministerial conference in nairobi, strengthens the multilateral system, the only instrument capable of responding effectively to major global problems. we also share the commitment of the parties to meet and update the agreement by january 2018. the promise of updating is a good sign of the aim of transforming the ita into a 'living' agreement, capable of adapting to developments and discoveries in the information technology field and, above all, of dismantling non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology (it) agreement was concluded in 1996 in schengen, and since then there have been a number of changes. although it concerns some 200 tariff lines, including computers and machinery for the production of computer goods, it is easy to argue that the ita played a key role in the expansion of the economy. however, technological advances are not part of the agreement and are excluded from the products covered by the ita. i think that enlargement is necessary and therefore i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ita (information technology agreement) provides for each participant to abolish, on the basis of the most-favoured-nation principle, customs duties on all information technology products. the duty exemption granted to ita participants has played a decisive role in the huge expansion of trade in the it sector. during this period, technological progress has radically changed the it sector, while the products covered by the ita have remained unchanged. for this reason, several countries belonging to the ita have started negotiations to extend the scope of the products covered by the agreement. the european union exported eur 189 billion of products covered by the ita enlargement, a figure which is expected to increase significantly after the tariff reductions. the agreement will result in lower prices for consumers, but also for manufacturers who rely on imported components. for all that, i gave my approval to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the expansion of trade in information technology products. the agreement signed by the european union in december 2015 in the framework of the world trade organisation provides for the elimination of customs duties on a wide range of information technology products, worth more than one trillion dollars a year in terms of trade volume. by 2019, all these duties will be eliminated, facilitating the free trade of these products, including gps navigation systems, medical products such as magnetic resonance imaging machines, printed circuit board machine tools and touch screens. these are technologies that improve the lives and everyday lives of european citizens, from the service sector to healthcare and entertainment. in view of the benefits that this type of technology brings to the lives of all of us european citizens, i can only be in favour of expanding their trade.
in writing. ‒ on 16 december 2015, at the wto ministerial conference in nairobi, 53 members reached an agreement under the second information technology treaty (itt), which includes a programme to phase out tariffs on 201 it products. in 2015, the european union exported eur 189 billion of products covered by the ita enlargement, a figure that is expected to increase significantly after the tariff reductions. the agreement will result in lower prices for consumers, but also for manufacturers who rely on imported components. i therefore consider it essential that i have voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidinyl) -1-pentanone (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone; α-pvp). i voted in favour of the proposal which calls on the commission to ask the member states to take control measures on this substance.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the boni report on the control measures for α-pvp. this is a new psychoactive substance, 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidinyl) 1-pentanone (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone; α-pvp), which is to be subject to control measures and criminal sanctions under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. only 16 member states currently apply such measures, so action at union level is needed to harmonise control measures. the draft council decision provides for the strengthening of judicial cooperation and the removal of obstacles to crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the boni report is acceptable and free of criticism and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2-pyrrolidinyl-1-pentanone (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone; α-pvp) should be subject to control measures. the evaluation of the risks posed by the consumption, manufacture and trafficking of the new psychoactive substance α-pvp is of paramount importance. they also agree to arrange for further investigations to ascertain whether criminal organisations are involved in the trade in this substance and whether there are any consequences of the control measures to be applied. α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant, detected in all 28 member states as well as in turkey and norway. the drug is imported into the drug market mainly from china and then distributed throughout europe. in eight member states that reported α-pvp, 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute intoxication were recorded. at present, no reliable information is available and no studies have been published to fully assess the health risks associated with α-pvp, i.e. chronic and acute toxicity. however, observations in animals indicate that this substance would have effects similar to those of other stimulants.
in writing. ‒ the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of this new psychoactive substance and, on the basis of the final report, the commission calls for control measures to be taken across the union. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ studies carried out by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) and europol have shown that α-pvp (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone) is a potent psychostimulant. this substance has been detected by police forces on drug markets in the 28 member states of the union mainly from china. the use of this substance in powder or tablet form has already resulted in 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute intoxication in eight eu countries. at present, only 16 european countries, in accordance with the obligations arising from the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances, control this substance and provide for sanctions under their national legislation. in order to avoid obstacles to cross-border cooperation between police and judicial authorities and to protect citizens from the risks posed by the availability and consumption of α-pvp, it is necessary that it be subject to control measures throughout the european union. the legislative resolution voted in plenary, on which i voted in favour, gives the council the mandate to make monitoring compulsory for those states which have one year to comply with the text of the european decision to take measures to criminalise the use of the substance.
in writing. ‒ psychoactive substances in general should be controlled to reduce their impact on the health of citizens and their costs to the health system. i voted in favour of this proposal because i am in favour of increasing the constant controls on these substances in order to reduce the chance that european citizens will remain victims of intoxication from substances whose dangers are not always known.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i voted in favour of the council's proposal to take control measures in respect of the new psychoactive substance in question.
in writing. ‒ a-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant used in the manufacture of a variety of products, often in excessive and harmful quantities. the widespread consumption and trafficking of this substance would have long-term repercussions on the health of european citizens. i therefore support this report, which aims to subject the substance to control measures in all member states. the eu has a duty to protect its citizens, especially by preventing the use and abuse of suspect substances.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of more control measures for this new psychoactive substance used in the creation of new types of synthetic drugs which are very dangerous and harmful.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution of the ep on the council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidinyl) -1-pentanone (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone; α-pvp) to control measures, because i believe it is important to take action at eu level to ban the spread of these dangerous psychotropic substances. the tests carried out on animals show the toxicity of these substances. in addition, a total of 115 deaths and 191 cases of poisoning have been recorded in the eight countries where the substance has been detected. i therefore support the european commission's proposal to subject this substance to common control measures at union level, because this decision will avoid problems linked to possible crossborder controls and investigations, which are necessary given that these substances are mainly imported from china. given that 16 member states already have control regulations which respect the 1971 convention on psychotropic substances, i believe that european intervention has the advantage of standardizing these sanctions regimes.
in writing. the proposal endorsed by the council on control measures for the new psychoactive substance α-pvp is intended to urge member states to subject this substance, as a potent psychostimulant, to strict control measures and criminal sanctions, in accordance with the obligations laid down by the united nations convention. to date, a number of cases of death and acute intoxication have been reported in eight member states, although no reliable information can be provided to assess concretely the risks that α-pvp is capable of producing, namely chronic and acute toxicity. however, animal studies indicate that the substance would have effects similar to those of other stimulants. based on these results, we believe that there are good reasons to subject the substance to appropriate control measures across the eu in order to protect the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision subjecting the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidinyl) -1-pentanone (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone; α-pvp) to control measures. the substance is a potent psychostimulant, detected in all 28 member states, and is imported into the eu drug market mainly from china and subsequently distributed throughout europe. despite this, there is no information on the actual health risks associated with α-pvp, i.e. chronic and acute toxicity, although many deaths and intoxications have been reported in many states where the substance has been reported. it is therefore necessary to activate control measures in the union to assess the actual toxicity of this substance and the possible harm it may cause to health, and thus to protect citizens from the risks posed by the consumption of α-pvp.
in writing. ‒ on the draft council decision subjecting the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidinyl) -1-pentanone to control measures, i support the draft resolution. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the council decision on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new narcotic drugs and new synthetic drugs has so far proved to be a useful tool for member states. during the debate in the libe committee, the european commission and the council underlined that the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- (1-pyrrolidinyl) -1-pentanone (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone α-pvp) has already caused a large number of deaths and intoxications. the report supports the position of the two institutions, agreeing on the dangerousness of this new substance and the need for greater controls. i therefore support its approval by parliament and reiterate my absolute opposition to all forms of drugs, without any distinction between so-called 'light' and so-called 'heavy' drugs.
in writing. ‒ in line with the ppe group and the majority in parliament, i voted in favour of the report by mr boni on the measures to be taken on a new psychoactive substance (α-pvp). α-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant imported into the eu drug market mainly from china. in eight member states that reported α-pvp, 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute intoxication were recorded. no information is available and no studies have been published to fully assess the health risks associated with α-pvp, but animal observations suggest that the substance would have effects similar to those of other stimulants. both the commission and the council have taken a strong position on this matter, in fact, on the basis of the results of the partial risk assessment report, they consider that there are grounds for subjecting the substance to control measures across the union. according to the risk assessment report, the acute toxicity of α-pvp is such that its consumption may seriously harm human health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today approved the proposal calling on member states to subject α-pvp to control measures and criminal sanctions under their respective legislation. the need to assess the risks posed by the consumption, manufacture and marketing of this new psychoactive substance, the consumption of which has caused a total of 115 deaths and 191 cases of acute intoxication in eight member states, has emerged. in view of the possible impact on the health of citizens, i have therefore advocated that careful control measures be taken for α-pvp throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ parliament is called upon to approve the accession of the member states to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns) with regard to aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. accession to the convention is desirable as it offers more specific rules and much more specialised and effective legal instruments. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure the accountability and payment of adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund. it is obviously an important legal instrument, but only states are allowed to ratify it. i voted in favour of the svoboda report because i share the need to ensure certainty in the application of legislation which, with the council's decision, could be compromised. the interim report adopted is therefore intended to put pressure on the council to amend the proposal submitted to request a uniform ratification of the hns convention, without leaving the uncertainty about the timing of the first formulation.
in writing. ‒ the svoboda report appears to be well structured, coherent and uncritical, and i therefore intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the 2010 hns convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances for damage resulting from an event related to the transport of such substances by sea on board. there are limited exceptions to the owner's strict liability, which is related to the owner's obligation to take out insurance or other financial security in order to cover his liability for damages in accordance with the provisions of the convention. the establishment of the special compensation fund to compensate anyone who has suffered damage resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, to the extent that such person has not been able to obtain full and adequate compensation for the damage from the ship owner and his insurer, up to a maximum of 250 million units of account (approximately eur 310 million), on the basis of a system of contributions paid to the hns fund by the recipients of dangerous and harmful substances in each contracting state is also positive. it should nevertheless be noted that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime applicable to environmental damage: the council and the commission must therefore follow the instructions of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which deals with the aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters of the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. the report highlights in particular the clear overlap of the convention with directive 2004/35/ec on the liability of professional operators. applying european legislation to the accidents covered by the convention would effectively amount to the eu's repudiation of the international maritime organisation's approach, which could have considerable negative repercussions. the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the safety of ships and for the development of a european standardisation system for the safety of ships.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr svoboda concerns a council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns). in the absence of a reio (regional economic integration organisation) clause in the text of the convention or the protocol, member states should conclude such an international agreement on behalf of the union, subject to authorisation by the council and approval by the european parliament on a proposal from the commission. the rapporteur believes that parliament should not give its consent until the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of the conferral of eu competences have been guaranteed. accession to the international convention on harmful substances is desirable because it offers more specific rules and legal instruments that are much more specialized and effective than those offered by the community regulatory framework. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the release of toxic substances into the sea can cause both damage to human health and significant economic losses to those working in the fisheries and maritime tourism sectors. i therefore believe that the public authorities must take steps to limit such phenomena, to punish them and to ensure that those who are harmed receive just compensation. i voted in favour of this proposal because i share the aim of creating a fund which would guarantee the injured citizen just compensation even for damage which exceeds the limits of the liability of the ship owner or his insurance.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea should be ratified, as the risks of maritime transport have a major impact across borders. the current community legal framework lacks a uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in relation to accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous and harmful substances throughout the european territory. i voted in favour of the report on ratification and accession to the convention in question, in view of the international maritime transport regime, which needs to be harmonised in order to ensure that uniform and effective measures are taken to establish liability and to provide for any compensation for damage to victims of accidents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary in the interests of the union to provide for a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a more homogeneous solution for a sector with a natural crossborder impact.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council decision on the ratification and accession by the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters, because i believe it is important to send a signal to the council about the importance of the timely implementation of the protocol by all member states. i believe that the council's proposal to leave it to the member states to decide when to ratify this convention is a step in the wrong direction, since it risks creating legal disparities and legal uncertainties, differentiating the conditions of operators in those countries which have ratified the convention from those subject to european legislation alone. the 2010 convention overlaps with existing legislation on civil liability for environmental damage, with the aim of strengthening the 'polluter pays' and precautionary and prevention principles and introducing compulsory insurance. it is important that parliament exert pressure on the council to have all the states ratify it at the same time.
in writing. parliament was invited by the council to approve its draft decision on the ratification and accession of the member states to the hns1 convention. the convention on the safety of life at sea governs the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and noxious substances and also governs the liability of the owner of the ship for damage resulting from the incorrect carriage of the same substances on board. the commission has also proposed the creation of a compensation fund for those who have suffered damage. it is considered that the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage resulting from accidents caused by ships carrying harmful and dangerous substances. given the danger that maritime transport can create by carrying harmful and highly dangerous substances, i support the proposal under consideration.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the interim report on the draft council decision on the ratification and accession by the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, with the exception of the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and noxious substances for damage resulting from an event related to the carriage of dangerous and noxious substances by sea on board that ship. the existence of international standards, rather than regional solutions, on liability for non-contractual damage arising from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea is of fundamental importance, especially in view of the high number of dangerous and harmful substances in the transport of goods by sea worldwide. it is in the interest of the union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which is effective and fair and which does not undermine the effectiveness and uniformity of the common rules of union law and does not create excessive disparities for the victims of pollution.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, 1996, is the last of the international maritime organisation's conventions on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea not yet ratified, nor has the 2010 protocol been ratified. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. i approve of my colleague's interlocutory report and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr svoboda. the text in question concerns the accession of the european union to the 2010 protocol to the convention on dangerous and noxious substances and on damage caused by the carriage of such substances by sea. accession to this convention will allow for the harmonization of international action to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage caused by ships carrying such substances.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the hns protocol introduced liability and compensation for damage resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, including liquefied natural gas (lng) and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg). the main objective of the hsn convention is to enable international cooperation to protect the marine environment from harmful and hazardous substances. in addition, the hns convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying dangerous and noxious substances for damage resulting from an event related to the transport of dangerous and noxious substances by sea on board that ship. as this convention is very important for the environment of the european union, i have decided to vote in favour of this interim recommendation which is intended to open a dialogue on this subject with the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ parliament is called upon to approve the accession of the member states to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns), with the exception of the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. accession to the convention is desirable as it offers more specific rules and much more specialised and effective legal instruments. the evaluation of these reports was therefore positive.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure the accountability and payment of adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea through a specialised international hns compensation fund. it is obviously an important legal instrument, but only states are allowed to ratify it. i voted in favour of the svoboda report because i share the need to ensure certainty in the application of legislation which, with the council's decision, could be compromised. the interim report adopted is therefore intended to put pressure on the council to amend the proposal submitted to request a uniform ratification of the hns convention, without leaving the uncertainty about the timing of the first formulation.
in writing. ‒ the report is well-written, interesting and uncritical, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the discussion on the subject, the positive contribution of the relevant commissions and working groups, and in the light of the significant share of dangerous and harmful substances in the transport of goods by sea, the worldwide nature of the shipping industry and the possible cross-border impact of accidents involving dangerous or harmful substances, we believe that it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime applicable to environmental damage resulting from the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, which can only be achieved if, as already stated and hoped, the council and the commission take due account of the recommendations of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because it provides valuable insights and constructive criticism with a view to the ratification by member states of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. the file notes that the above convention and directive 2004/35/ec operate in the same field as regards the liability of professional operators, with clear differences. in particular, eu legislation is not binding on third countries, including those that are important flag states, which could prove problematic when dealing with complaints about leakages of hazardous and noxious substances with international aspects. moreover, if countries neighbouring eu member states were parties to the convention and an accident occurred involving both an eu member state and a neighbouring country, the claimants and the ship owners would be subject to different (and contradictory) regimes. the ep also calls for the commission to be given the right to adopt a new directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the second report by mr svoboda concerns a council decision on the ratification and accession of the member states to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns). in the absence of a reio (regional economic integration organisation) clause in the text of the convention or the protocol, member states should conclude such an international agreement on behalf of the union, subject to authorisation by the council and approval by the european parliament on a proposal from the commission. the rapporteur believes that parliament should not give its consent until the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of the conferral of eu competences have been guaranteed. accession to the international convention on harmful substances is desirable because it offers more specific rules and legal instruments that are much more specialized and effective than those offered by the community regulatory framework. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ justice wants, as the italian civil code states, that any damage obliges the one who caused it to compensate the one who suffered it. and that's where we all agree. however, there are cases where the amount of damage is far beyond the means of the person who caused it. i voted in favour of this proposal because it provides a concrete answer to these cases and is a step towards a just solution.
in writing. ‒ in view of the significant share of dangerous and harmful substances in the transport of goods by sea, the worldwide nature of the shipping industry and the possible cross-border impact of accidents involving dangerous or harmful substances, i consider it appropriate to proceed with ratification and accession to the protocol in question. i voted in favour of the report because it promotes a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous substances at sea and provides for a system of compensation for damage caused by the transport of dangerous and toxic substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary in the interests of the union to provide for a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of improving the uniformity of judicial cooperation in matters of liability and compensation for environmental damage arising from the transport of dangerous or harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council decision on the ratification and accession by the member states, in the interest of the european union, to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea as regards aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters, because i believe it is important to send a signal to the council about the importance of the timely implementation of the protocol by all member states (ms). i believe that the council's proposal to leave the ms free to decide when to ratify this convention is a step in the wrong direction, as it risks creating legal disparities and legal uncertainties by creating different jurisdictional regimes in the event of accidents caused by ships carrying dangerous substances. the 2010 convention overlaps with the brussels 1a regulation with regard to jurisdiction and recognition of decisions, introducing a more stringent regime than eu law in order to limit the phenomenon of 'forum shopping'. it is therefore important that parliament exert pressure on the council to ensure that all member states ratify the international legislation at the same time.
in writing. the 2010 hns convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful substances, while regulating the liability of the owner for damage resulting from improper transport. the convention itself lays down rules on the jurisdiction of courts and the recognition and enforcement of judgments, superimposing itself on the application of the rules contained in the brussels i regulation. we therefore believe that the conclusion of this protocol will ensure the full application of the rules on liability and compensation for damage in respect of accidents occurring during maritime transport. we will also engage in a dialogue with the council and the commission to develop a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the convention on dangerous and noxious substances with regard to aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. this convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying substances which are harmful or dangerous, where damage is caused by such transport, and establishes a special compensation fund to compensate anyone who has suffered damage from the transport of such harmful substances. it is in the interest of the european union that there should be a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ given the large number of dangerous and harmful substances carried by sea, the global nature of the shipping industry and the possible cross-border impact of accidents involving such cargoes, i believe it is essential for the eu to have a uniform system of liability. i support my colleague's interim report, which seeks to establish a dialogue with the commission and the council, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ratification and accession to the 2010 protocol to the convention on hazardous and noxious substances and liability for damage caused by maritime transport of such substances. i am in favour of the adoption of a uniform liability regime applicable to environmental damage resulting from the transport of these substances. the harmonization of legislation in this field can only have positive effects.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 hns (harmful hazardous substances) convention is the last of the international maritime organisation (imo) conventions dealing with liability for damage arising from the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea to have not yet been ratified. the 2010 protocol also sought to ensure adequate, prompt and effective compensation to ensure that accident victims can benefit from clear procedural rules to make their claims for compensation before the courts quicker. parliament made recommendations to the council and the commission on the uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in respect of accidents caused by ships carrying harmful and dangerous materials. the committee also calls for the obligation for all member states to ratify the 2010 hns convention as soon as possible. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the brok report approving the protocol to the eu-philippines agreement allowing croatia to accede to it. this is an important act that allows croatia to become a party to the framework agreement with the asian country, whose initial draft dates back to 2010, three years before croatia's accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ although the measure is purely technical and is necessary as an adjustment following croatia's accession to the eu, i believe that there are some passages in it that are unclear and not fully acceptable, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the eu, should also participate in the eu's global partnership and/or cooperation agreements with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ with the favourable vote on the recommendation, croatia was also included in the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. this is because croatia joined the union in 2014 and the draft framework agreement dates back to 2010. the philippines has made considerable progress in the field of human rights in recent years, but it is necessary to continue to encourage the country to continue on this path. on the basis of the agreement reached, the eu will continue to provide financial support and assistance to the philippines for poverty reduction, social inclusion, and peace promotion. the recommendation calls on the republic of the philippines to continue to improve investment conditions by increasing transparency and good governance, implementing the un guiding principles on business and human rights and further developing infrastructure, where appropriate through public-private partnerships.
in writing. ‒ believing that the philippines needs eu support to address the many challenges and emergencies it is facing, i voted in favour of the possibility of the eu concluding a partnership agreement with the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it represents only the extension to croatia of the agreement concluded between the european union and its member states and the philippines. i believe that croatia, which has become a member of the european union, should take part in this agreement like the other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the protocol to the convention allowing croatia's accession as an integral part of the agreement, as a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ there are many reasons why europe must continue to provide support and assistance to the philippines in developing its potential. the eu has a key role to play in promoting peace, security, judicial reform and in assisting the philippines in its response to frequent natural disasters. at the same time, the philippines is very active in the functioning of an international coalition against terrorism.
in writing. parliament considered that the european union should continue to provide financial support to the philippines to combat poverty, promote respect for human rights, peace and security, and assist in disaster prevention and preparedness and climate change. the agreement also encourages the government of the philippines to continue to promote progress in the eradication of corruption, to develop systems for collecting data on trafficking in human beings and to strengthen legal instruments for labour migration, ensuring their dignified treatment in third countries. in order to facilitate cultural and commercial exchanges between the islands of the archipelago, the government of the philippines is encouraged to invest in new technological tools. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of implementing this recommendation, as i believe it can play a key role in the european framework.
in writing. ‒ the path to eu membership taken by the republic of croatia is corollated by international agreements necessary to join the international organisation. considering that croatia's accession to the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation is necessary, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu. the act of accession of the republic of croatia provides that the republic of croatia is to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union and its member states by means of a protocol annexed to those agreements.
in writing. ‒ the republic of the philippines is one of the 10 members of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), as well as the fifth largest economy in the region and the second largest market within asean. since 2014, the eu has granted the philippines gsp+ status, making it the first country in the area to benefit from duty-free treatment for several types of products, such as coconut oil, footwear, fish and textiles. partnership agreements, which generally aim to establish political cooperation, are based on shared core values such as democracy and human rights. the acp has, in this connection, made respect for these values an indispensable condition for the maintenance of political dialogue and trade relations. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a framework agreement with the republic of the philippines is an important step forward in strengthening the union's role in the region, fostering the development and consolidation of democratic processes. at a time of historical change, with the chinese presence in the south china sea becoming particularly strong, and with tensions in the area rising, it is increasingly necessary to establish partnerships and cooperation that foster a collaborative approach. my vote in favour of the brok report, which approves the eu-philippines agreement, is motivated by the conviction that it is essential to strengthen relations with the archipelagic state, paying particular attention to the environmental dimension and climate change. the european union cannot ignore the serious difficulties facing the country due to the threats and risks associated with the occurrence of extreme weather events in the area, which are linked to climate change. in addition to providing humanitarian aid and technical support to deal with natural disasters, the union must support the authorities in the country in the fight against islamist terrorism. a real threat that is fed by a widespread consensus among certain social strata, particularly vulnerable to jihadist appeals and isis propaganda.
in writing. ‒ while addressing common themes, this resolution opens up steps that could prove critical and a barrier for eu companies wishing to operate in that country. i therefore did not feel i could fully support this text and i voted in favour of abstention.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in exchange for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for citizens on both sides and has increased the range of influence of eu soft power. the philippines is today one of the few countries in east asia where the transition to the new globalized market conditions of the third millennium has come in a modern democratic form, looking to the west and the development of the rule of law despite still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems, difficult relationship with minorities and pockets of guerrilla still active in some marginal areas. the philippines is a friendly democracy which europe can look to as a whole and which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation.
in writing. ‒ today i am in favour of the conclusion of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. the eu is a major foreign investor and trade partner of the philippines. the philippines is increasingly affected by extreme weather events that are becoming a barrier to the country's development. the world bank recently declared the philippines the third most vulnerable developing country to climate change, and that this will have adverse effects on the country's agriculture and marine resources. the european response must therefore include substantial humanitarian and emergency aid for the victims of the tropical storms in the philippines. i would remind you that the eu can also support climate action in the philippines through the european commission's investment fund for asia. there are growing concerns that isis is gaining a foothold in affiliated groups in southeast asia, as it is spreading propaganda in local languages and some extremists in the region are reported to have already pledged to cooperate. i therefore invite the eu and its member states to engage in a dialogue with the philippines with a view to facilitating the exchange of intelligence information in order to cooperate and support the strengthening of the government's capabilities in the international fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ believing that the philippines needs eu support to address the many challenges and emergencies it is facing, i voted in favour of the possibility of the eu concluding a partnership agreement with the country.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the european commission's solution to conclude the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. i think it is important that the union continues to provide financial and assistance support to the country in order to reduce poverty, promote peace and human rights but above all to support them in the fight against terrorism. i therefore share the commission's view on the agreement with the philippines and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of the philippines, as it is intended to promote the promotion of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, the fight against terrorism. the agreement is of great relevance because it covers areas such as disaster risk management and the peace process.
in writing. ‒ there are many reasons why europe must continue to provide support and assistance to the philippines in developing its potential. the eu has longstanding relations with the philippines, which have been significantly deepened in recent years. the eu has a key role to play in promoting peace, security, judicial reform and in assisting the philippines in its response to frequent natural disasters. at the same time, the philippines is very active in the functioning of an international coalition against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the resolution because, despite many positive points, it does not take into account some important elements such as the current unfavourable conditions for those who want to do business in the philippines.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the philippines and the eu should conclude the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. i also agree with the position of my fellow rapporteurs that the eu should continue to provide financial support and assistance to the philippines for capacity building for poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and assist the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery operations and the implementation of effective policies to combat climate change. i believe that this position is also consistent with what the union has already done in recent years, granting the country gsp+ status and thus making it a stable trading partner with favourable conditions. i also urge the union to trust the country not only with regard to goods but mainly with regard to the rights of mobility of people, with emphasis on the opportunities for cultural and scientific exchange that this would bring.
in writing. as regards the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of this agreement. it aims to manage risk, promote respect for human rights, peace and security and strengthen cooperation in areas such as migration, taxation, the environment and the fight against criminal activities. this is an important instrument for a country which is making important progress.
in writing. ‒ the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation broadens the scope for economic and trade engagement between the parties. the agreement also marks a significant development in that, apart from the purely commercial clauses, it contains references to human rights, the fight against terrorism and the international criminal court. i therefore support the agreement and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the acp (partnership and cooperation framework) with the philippines replaces the current legal framework established by the 1980 cooperation agreement between the european economic community and the member countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean). politically, the acp-philippines association is a significant step towards strengthening bilateral relations and the eu's role in south-east asia, based on shared universal values such as democracy and human rights. the agreement paves the way for greater political, regional and global cooperation. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ in line with the epp group and the parliamentary majority, i voted in favour of the report on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (fpca) between the european union and the philippines. the agreement contains provisions on human rights, non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism and the international criminal court. the acp is strengthening cooperation in a wide range of areas, including migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, transport, tourism, culture, but also the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption. the conclusion of this agreement is positive for relations between the contracting parties and for the possible influence of the eu in this state.
in writing. ‒ the european union has longstanding relations with the republic of the philippines, which have been significantly expanded and deepened in recent years, especially in terms of trade and investment. one of the main points of the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement calls for a meaningful human rights dialogue in the form of a working group, given the communist and islamic-inspired unrest and insurgency that has been ongoing since 2007. as i consider this agreement to be very important for the future relationship between the eu and the philippines, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent framework partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines has enabled the philippines to strengthen its political and economic dialogue with the eu. as the third most vulnerable developing country to climate change, the eu has committed to providing support and assistance to the philippine government, including to tackle poverty, reform the judiciary and promote respect for human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. for these reasons, and because i felt it was essential to examine the matter in greater depth, i decided to abstain, hoping for a future european commitment to a clear and prompt protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a framework agreement with the republic of the philippines is an important step forward in strengthening the role of the european union in the region, fostering the development and consolidation of democratic processes. at a time of historical change, with the chinese presence in the south china sea becoming particularly strong, and with tensions in the area rising, it is increasingly necessary to establish partnerships and cooperation that foster a collaborative approach. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu-philippines agreement because i believe it is essential to set out the priorities to be followed in relations with the archipelagic state. the eu's action must be directed primarily at strengthening existing economic links, pushing for greater commitment by the asian republic to the consolidation of democracy and human rights. the philippines should continue to improve investment conditions, increase transparency and good governance and further develop the infrastructure system. investment in new technologies and the internet must be seen as a key factor in facilitating not only trade but also cultural exchanges between the many islands of the archipelago.
in writing. ‒ the report on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines contains some criticisms which have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ relations with the philippines are of great importance to the european union. on the trade side, the eu is the fourth largest export market for the philippines and the country is a key trade partner, but not only that. the country is a positive model in the region in terms of human rights legislation and its strategic position cannot be ignored. for these reasons, i welcome the resolution adopted today, which establishes a framework for partnership and cooperation between the eu and the republic of the philippines. it is important that the eu continue to provide support to the philippines in the framework of the partnership, in particular to support the fight against poverty, the achievement of full social inclusion and the building of capacity to adapt to climate change and to respond to natural disasters, to which the country is highly exposed. it is also essential that eu-philippines cooperation in combating violent forms of religious extremism and the commitment to implementing effective measures to counter it continue actively.
in writing. ‒ in line with the european union's efforts to promote peace, freedom and democracy in the world, and following the efforts made by the council and the relevant committees to reach a satisfactory agreement allowing appropriate support for the philippines in the context of the global cooperation that the eu intends to establish with partner countries on the various continents, it is appropriate to support this act which could represent a deepening of the relationship with the asian island state, to which we can only express gratitude and human closeness for its adherence to the fight against global terrorism which also in the territories of the republic of the philippines has shown its hatred of violence, fanaticism and intolerance. the whole international community must respond appropriately.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (resolution). i believe that the eu should continue to provide financial support and assistance to the philippines for capacity building in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, peace promotion, reconciliation, security and judicial reform. the eu should also assist the philippines in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery operations and in implementing effective policies to combat climate change. i am concerned, however, about the continuing reports of serious human rights violations by the philippine military in the conduct of riot control operations, particularly by paramilitary units. i therefore encourage the government of the philippines to continue to promote further progress in the promotion of human rights.
in writing. ‒ while i welcome the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement, i believe that the accompanying resolution could be more in-depth and better address some of the problems of the country in question. that is why i have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the philippines has been a member of the international coalition against terrorism since 2001. however, there are many concerns about the isis front as it is spreading propaganda in local languages. i therefore think it is important that the european union continues to provide financial and assistance support to the country in order to reduce poverty, promote peace and human rights, but above all to support them in the fight against terrorism. terrorist acts in the philippines can significantly affect the european market as the country is located close to the main international air and sea traffic routes. i therefore voted in favour because, as a member of the european parliament, i believe it is necessary to continue to provide our support to the philippines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the partnership agreement with the republic of the philippines, which would bring great benefits to the philippine state in terms of economic development, financial support, poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights, promotion of peace and national security. in addition, cooperation with the european union would include measures to assist the republic of the philippines in preparing effectively for natural disasters and to facilitate the implementation of policies to address climate change.
in writing. ‒ there are many reasons why europe must continue to provide support and assistance to the philippines in developing its potential. the eu has a key role to play in promoting peace, security, judicial reform and in assisting the philippines in its response to frequent natural disasters. at the same time, the philippines is very active in the functioning of an international coalition against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because there could be better ways of helping the philippines.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this report as it highlights several important aspects for the future of the agricultural sector. i support the overall view of the report that improving innovation and competitiveness is essential for the agricultural sector moving into the future and that future legislation should take this into account. i also agree with the report on the need to promote a more prudent use of natural resources, to ensure the biodiversity of our farms, to tackle food waste and to tackle soil degradation. i also echo the report in calling for the commission to provide a more ambitious strategy to align and focus research and innovation on these issues so as the european agricultural sector can retail and even improve its competitiveness in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. i support the need to continue to provide financial support to the philippines so that it can devote itself to the implementation of policies of poverty eradication, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law. in this sense, the partnership and cooperation agreement can strengthen the architecture of philippine institutions in a more democratic sense. i strongly supported the call on the government of the philippines to develop capacity in the fight against trafficking in human beings and calls on the eu and its member states to support the government, and in particular the inter-agency council against trafficking in human beings (iacat), in its efforts to improve assistance and support to victims. finally, i hope that the newly elected president of the republic, mr duterte, will be a guarantor of peace and democratic stability and a moderate promoter of the country's unity and social cohesion, continuing on the path of combating corruption and drug trafficking within a framework of law and legality.
in writing. parliament welcomes the conclusion of the framework partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines. it also considered that the eu should act to provide assistance, support and development to the philippines in poverty reduction, respect for human rights and the promotion of peace. the eu and its member states are called upon to engage with the philippines to cooperate and provide support for strengthening the government's capacity in the international fight against terrorism and extremism. parliament called for regular exchanges with the european external action service and for a system to be set up to monitor the implementation of the framework agreement and the achievement of its objectives.
in writing. ‒ the philippines has had the ability to overcome many obstacles; in fact, there has been a strengthening of human rights in the region. efforts to implement environmentally friendly disciplines have also been stepped up and the development of foreign direct investment, which is necessary for the country's progress, has been supported. the eu is the destination market for some 11.56% of all philippine exports, and the partnership agreement is seen as part of the good relations between the two players. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) with the philippines contains commitments of fundamental importance for the eu's foreign policy. it strengthens sectoral cooperation in a wide range of strategic areas, such as migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption. the acp also greatly expands the scope for mutual economic and trade engagement, as its important section on trade cooperation is expected to facilitate the negotiations on the free trade agreement (fta). i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this agreement can create a comprehensive and coherent economic and political framework for relations between the eu and the asean countries.
in writing. ‒ in line with the epp group and the parliamentary majority, i voted in favour of the report on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (fpca) between the european union and the philippines. the agreement contains provisions on human rights, non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism and the international criminal court. the acp is strengthening cooperation in a wide range of areas, including migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, transport, tourism, culture, but also the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption. the conclusion of this agreement is positive for relations between the contracting parties and for the possible influence of the eu in this state.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the importance of continuing to provide the support needed for development and peacebuilding is underlined. the european union should also assist the country in preparing for disasters and then manage rescue and recovery operations. the resolution refers to the important decision taken in 2001 to join the international coalition against terrorism, but also raises concerns about the possible influence of isis in the country's south east asian region. the call to the philippine government to implement all those international conventions on human rights and environmental protection is also important.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this resolution has a significance that goes far beyond the economic aspect. this is a substantial aid which is of great importance to tunisia, which is going through a very difficult period, but it is also a timely and precise message from the european union to the entire arab world. considerable aid which is intended to ensure, where democratic conditions exist, as in tunisia, the only islamic country with such conditions, real and concrete aid, precisely in order to send the message that the european union is paying close attention to the mediterranean and is doing so at a time when the arab world is torn apart by the fighting between shiites and sunnis and there is no real solidarity in fact, and this also in order to be able to counter in a strong and appropriate way the danger of terrorism and the devastating messages that isis is sending to the arab world. so i think today's vote is extraordinarily important for the many reasons behind this timely and substantial economic aid that the european union has made available.
in writing. ‒ the growing need for external financing, justified by the difficult political situation in tunisia, has prompted the european commission to propose a second tranche of assistance of eur 500 million for tunisia. the intervention, in the form of medium-term loans, is aimed at rescuing the country's budgets and public finances, thus complementing the economic adjustment programme agreed with the world bank and complying with the reforms agreed with the union. the first assistance decision provided for support of eur 250 million, followed by the approval of substantial trade preferences in 2016. i voted in favour of this, considering the importance of providing aid and assistance to help consolidate the political transition in the country.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the only example of democracy that emerged from the arab spring. the process of consolidating the democratic system, threatened by numerous terrorist attacks, has succeeded in establishing itself and in defining a constitutional charter that protects the rights of citizens and constitutes a stable institutional system. the economic crisis affecting the maghreb country, however, represents a serious risk factor, which is combined with the persistence of areas of instability in the neighboring areas, especially in neighboring libya where military formations linked to isis are active. i voted in favour of the de sarnez report because i believe that it is essential to mobilise macrofinancial assistance for tunisia. the european union will be able to provide concrete support to an important country which is successfully embarking on the path of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law through this instrument. the programme, with a budget of eur 500 million, will support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its fiscal situation, balance its balance of payments and create a favourable investment climate.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report and the allocation of eur 500 million to tunisia. i am sceptical about the real usefulness of this type of macrofinancial assistance and even more sceptical about the way in which it is monitored for its correct and transparent use. i am increasingly wondering how it is that the eu is always at the forefront of helping third countries and never our own citizens and businesses. for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in exchange for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. tunisia is now one of the few (or perhaps the only) arab countries where the so-called "arab spring" has resulted in a modern type of democracy, which looks to the west and the development of the rule of law. a friendly democracy, which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to be gradually integrated into the common free trade area.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to tunisia because at the moment tunisia represents a hope in the arab mediterranean context. many problems remain, the country has been repeatedly targeted by terrorist attacks and bombings, which have particularly affected the tourism sector, which has always been a central element for the tunisian economy. it is therefore necessary for europe to be able to take all the necessary steps to support this delicate phase of transition in the country. in this way, by means of concrete actions, we will be able to show solidarity and determination, encouraging the country from which the arab spring began and which certainly represents a model for all those who want to try to promote peace and democracy in the middle east, north africa and the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ in view of the strong impact of the security situation on the tunisian economy and the need for external financing during the consolidation of the political transition, the european commission is submitting to the european parliament and the council a proposal for a second macro-financial assistance to the republic of tunisia of up to eur 500 million in the form of medium-term loans. the new proposal would help tunisia to cover part of its residual external financing needs, estimated at around usd 2,9 billion for the period 2016-17, under the new imf programme and would reduce the short-term vulnerabilities of the economy with regard to balance of payments and public finances, complementing the economic adjustment and reform programme agreed with the imf and the world bank, as well as reforms agreed under the eu budget support operations. i am convinced that the tunisian people must be supported and that the eu must give real aid to tunisia, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that in recent years tunisia has demonstrated its potential by making a great step forward in the drafting of a constitution that safeguards the rights and freedoms of citizens. it has also made substantial progress in establishing a democratic regime and modernising its economy to achieve stable political conditions. however, the multiple terrorist attacks in the country have severely damaged the economic sector. for these reasons, i believe that the european union should contribute to supporting tunisia by providing liquidity through soft loans so that the country can strengthen the security of its citizens and improve the local economic sector.
in writing. ‒ following the changes in the political landscape since 2011, the eu has committed itself to supporting tunisia in the process of economic and political reforms and has increased its financial support to this end. in particular, eur 524 million in grants was made available for the period 2011-2015 under the ordinary convention programme, and eur 155 million under the 'support for partnership, reform and inclusive growth' programme for the period 2011-2013. in my vote in favour, i intend to support macrofinancial assistance to tunisia so that this country can make progress in its economic and social development, close the external financial deficit in the balance of payments and implement structural reforms. i believe that tunisia is a positive example in the post-2011 regional political instability landscape and that it is therefore the eu's duty to concretely support its efforts towards democratisation, especially given that, at this stage, it is a vulnerable target for terrorist attacks. i also believe that the macrofinancial assistance programme can play a proactive role in supporting tunisia's democratization process by making the granting of assistance conditional on certain preconditions, such as respect for the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today approved the report on the proposal for a decision on a eur 500 million loan to tunisia, which will be available for a period of two and a half years. this measure is part of a wider policy of support which the european union is pursuing in this country. it is only a few months ago that parliament voted in favour of the introduction of emergency trade measures for tunisia. the main objective is to consolidate relations with this strategic partner, the only country in the north african region facing the difficult transition to full democracy, and to provide structural support for its economic recovery. the accession of tunisia to the loan is conditional on the signing of a memorandum of understanding with the european commission, which tunisia will have to respect by ensuring the implementation of effective reforms. the appropriation of this loan is all the more important following the heavy blow inflicted by the terrorist attacks of march 2015, which severely weakened a key sector such as tourism, increasing unemployment and instability in the country. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is necessary to continue to accompany tunisia in this transition towards a genuine democratic state.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because the real benefits are not clear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council decision to activate a programme of macro-financial assistance (mfa) for tunisia, because i believe that the mfa is an important european financial instrument through which, in this specific case, the eu can concretely help tunisia to stabilise the important process of democratisation under way. the assistance programme will be instrumental in accompanying tunisia on this complex path and in ensuring the modernisation of economic structures and the strengthening of relations, in particular with the eu, further deepened through the free trade agreement currently under negotiation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the union's macro-financial assistance. this is the second request for amf by tunisia, the first was in 2014. the total amount of the loan is eur 500 million, which is in addition to the initial eur 300 million, and will be granted through medium-term loans on international markets at favourable rates. the european commitment, as strongly desired by the european parliament, should be to share the cost of indebtedness with tunisia itself. it is not a question of subsidies, which has never been considered by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted to adopt this report based on the need for tunisia to receive additional financial support in order to retain stability and to start to solve the huge financial and social issues the country is currently facing. tunisia has suffered severely from the libyan civil war and the regional instability that it has created, combined with a tourist-flight after last year’s terrorist attacks and high unemployment this had put the internal stability of the country in jeopardy. tunisia, as the only state that emerged from the arab spring as a democracy, is in urgent need of our support both economically and politically, and it is in our interest that the country become a role model for democracy in north africa.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the actions the european commission is taking to support tunisia. this was the only country where the arab spring was followed by real improvements in the social and economic conditions of the population, in what can be described as a democratic transition. the country finally has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms, a well-established justice system and media that are able to observe and exercise the right to criticize. as an italian, i cannot help but be concerned about the situation in a country so close to the coast of sicily, where the regional political and security context is unfortunately still extremely unstable, particularly because of the border it shares with libya. this is why europe must contribute to a process of stabilisation in the country, for which macrofinancial assistance is a key instrument, since it directly contributes to improving the quality of life of the population.
in writing. some third countries with which the eu has agreements are experiencing difficulties, including tunisia. in fact, tunisia's economic situation has deteriorated further after the terrorist attacks in 2015. for these reasons, the eu wants to make a concrete contribution to its economic development and to the promotion of the democratic process. the aid consists of a temporary loan of eur 500 million, to be paid in instalments. it is important to remember, however, that financial agreements will only be granted if the country successfully completes the programmes set out in the agreements. in order to improve living conditions in the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, and in the context of a long-term strategy against irregular migration, as proposed in the migration compact, i believe that it is useful to act in this direction.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is going through a period of great economic difficulties, mainly caused by the various terrorist attacks and attacks it has suffered, with a number of consequences, such as negative effects in various economic sectors, first and foremost tourism, the growth of unemployment, mainly of women, instability in the regional political and security environment. despite all these problems, tunisia is trying to respond, but needs support to bring about real improvements in the management of public finances, the tax system, social security, financial sector reform and to improve the regulatory framework for trade and investment. it is necessary to strengthen its relations with its main partners, first and foremost the european union. since macrofinancial assistance is an instrument for a third country which is in a crisis situation and since tunisia has all the necessary conditions for the granting of macrofinancial assistance, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ tunisia, which is in the process of democratizing the country, is now led by a coalition government, elected in full transparency, with an independent media and an independent judiciary. because of this success, supported by an active civil society and a nobel prize winner, the country is now threatened by destabilization attempts, supported by enemies of freedom and pluralistic values. terrorist attacks against westerners in seaside resorts have in fact undermined the tourism industry, the first line of tunisia's gdp which last season saw foreign visits drop by 80 percent. the high levels of unemployment, particularly among young people and in rural areas, the threats of proliferation of weapons in the event of new nato operations in the region and the proximity to libya, which is home to 1.8 million citizens, could ultimately increase the risk of radicalization of the population with clear repercussions throughout the mediterranean area. in view of all these factors, we can only express our most sincere support for the financial assistance measures which, in the form of long-term loans, can contribute to the stabilization of the country and the future of the tunisians.
in writing. ‒ given the considerable steps tunisia has taken in its transition to democracy, i believe that macrofinancial assistance can both support the country and, at the same time, counter those who want to destabilise the situation. the reforms implemented by tunisia fully meet the requirements for the granting of macrofinancial assistance by the european union, and i therefore feel that i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has made enormous progress on its path to democratic transition. it has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms, an independent judiciary and an independent media. the dynamic and modern civil society has actively contributed to this transformation. however, the country is experiencing great difficulties due to terrorist attacks that have targeted its main economic sectors, such as tourism, with the aim of destabilizing it. economic growth has slowed down and unemployment, especially for women and young people, remains very high. despite all these problems, tunisia is courageously pursuing its reform agenda to modernise its economic structures and is strengthening relations with its partners, including the eu. it is therefore important that europe shows solidarity and does everything possible to support its development by taking concrete action to the direct benefit of the population. macro-financial assistance (mfa) is the most appropriate instrument in this context to accompany the modernisation programme. tunisia fulfils all the conditions for the granting of the mfa and i therefore support the commission's proposal, supported by parliament's report, to grant aid.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's economy has been in serious trouble since the beginning of the so-called "arab spring" revolution in 2011. in 2015, the country was hit by terrorist attacks that disrupted tourist flows and worsened its already weak fiscal balance and credit position. the eu provided €300 million in financial aid to tunisia in 2014. in august 2015, the tunisian government requested the eu to contribute eur 500 million to a second programme of assistance and additional loans from the international monetary fund (imf). in order to access the credit, tunisia will have to sign a memorandum of understanding with the european commission, committing itself to implementing structural reforms and to pursuing sound public financial management. it will also have to ensure respect for democratic mechanisms, the rule of law and human rights, under eu supervision. once these conditions are met, tunisia will be able to benefit from the loan for a period of two and a half years. i voted in favour of this report and i believe that these are the kinds of aid that should be pursued by the eu institutions and not agreements, wicked ones, like those concerning olive oil.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mr de sarnez on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to tunisia. the text adopted provides for a loan of eur 500 million to be granted to tunisia by the commission on behalf of the eu, which will cover at least part of the country's balance of payments-related residual external financing needs. the loan will be disbursed in three tranches, the first of 200 million euro and the subsequent of 150 million euro each. as is usual in the case of financial assistance, the aid is not an end in itself, since it is conditional on the successful implementation of the programme envisaged by the international monetary fund. the commission and the tunisian authorities would also agree on specific structural reforms in the framework of a memorandum of understanding.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is a sensitive and complex issue. parliament is called upon to give its opinion on the rules to regulate the circumvention which directly affects the internal market. in the econ committee our members have pushed for precise and binding provisions, better patent legislation and a stronger role for parliament. the final document reports the level of deductions as too high and the rate as too low. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the bayet report on the proposal for a directive on tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. harmful tax competition, often taking advantage of the lack of harmonisation in regulation, is, together with aggressive tax planning by multinationals, one of the most important causes of the loss of resources to states, estimated at between 100 and 240 billion dollars a year worldwide. the need to create a genuine european single market cannot but pass through an agreement on the taxation question, based on fair and efficient taxation of enterprises. we must prevent multinational companies from shifting profits to tax havens without paying taxes where they are made. the text adopted improves the commission's proposal by strengthening the patent proposal and generally strengthening the role of the european parliament as the body responsible for monitoring and evaluating the application of the directive in the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ although it is partly acceptable, there are some passages in this text which i consider contradictory and unclear, and for this reason i have preferred to express my opinion by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ aggressive tax planning and related practices have a high cost to government budgets, resulting in considerable losses in revenue that could otherwise be used to promote employment, more resilient social systems and the realisation of targeted investments. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the taxation of capital, and whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the taxation of capital. the report adopted today aims to define common anti-tax avoidance rules in some specific areas, as well as more general anti-abuse rules. it was important to stress that taxes should be paid where they generate profits and it is good to have introduced precise and binding definitions, such as that of 'stable organisation' or 'tax haven', which make it possible to verify more clearly where a multinational is actually established, so as to oblige companies to pay their taxes in a fair way.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion by multinational companies is a serious act which, besides being immoral, is a real problem for european citizens who see an estimated tax shortfall in state coffers of between 100 and 240 billion dollars every year worldwide. this represents between 4 and 10% of global corporate tax revenues and, above all, a huge loss of income for states, which reduces their ability to invest to promote employment, fight poverty and develop effective universal health systems. this shortfall is often made up by public debt, by cuts in services or by raising taxes on resident citizens: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the area of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ after careful examination of the documentation and discussion in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive because i believe that harmful tax competition, which exploits information lag and the lack of harmonisation in regulation, together with aggressive tax planning by multinationals, cause huge losses of income for states, reducing their capacity to invest and delaying the implementation of reforms for employment, poverty and universal health. i therefore support the report which deals with the delicate issues of introducing definitions of 'stable organisation', 'double deduction' and 'minimum economic substance', because the elements which allow an undertaking to be defined on the basis of factual criteria, taking into account human and material resources, management autonomy, legal reality and the nature of assets, must be established in a harmonized and coherent way, once and for all. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems, such as the internet, to the provision of services in the field of telecommunications.
in writing. ‒ the procedure concerns a consultation of the european parliament following the publication of the european commission's proposed directive against tax avoidance, which is mainly aimed at multinational companies. i voted against the report by the econ committee because i do not agree with the way in which the question of tax deductions and rates is being dealt with: the first one's too high, the second one's too low.
in writing. ‒ several studies by the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) have shown that aggressive tax planning by multinational groups costs member states hundreds of billions of euros each year in lost tax revenues. it is a phenomenon which reduces the resources available to member states to promote employment or improve health systems; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of small and mediumsized enterprises is not distorted. the directive is part of the package of anti-tax evasion rules announced in january by european commissioner moscovici and contains the principle that tax must be paid where profits and value are generated, providing specific anti-avoidance rules in six specific areas: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the draft directive on the taxation of savings income in the event of a tax dispute. today we have taken a major step forward in the fight against corporate tax evasion and in the protection of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that there is a need for a coordinated and determined approach to the implementation of tax systems. i agree with this proposal which aims to ensure that companies pay taxes where they make their profits. to do this will certainly require the introduction of precise and binding definitions of the conditions which will determine whether a multinational is actually established in a given country. i think it is a necessary measure to ensure that multinationals do not transfer their profits to tax havens without paying the taxes they owe. this is a huge waste of money for the states, which will have fewer resources to provide adequate services to all citizens, including those who are absent. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ in order to build a true economic and monetary union, it is essential to harmonise european taxation, with the imposition of fair and efficient taxation. a coordinated and harmonised approach to the implementation of tax systems is therefore needed. however, i believe that the proposal in the report may harm many enterprises with serious investment intentions, as it provides only for a minimal deductibility of interest, which represents the costs of investment projects.
in writing. ‒ every year, european states suffer a loss in unpaid taxes of billions of euros due to aggressive tax planning. the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance is therefore a top political priority, as harmful practices such as aggressive tax planning are unacceptable from the point of view of the integrity of the internal market and social justice. the european parliament's resolution, which i voted for, puts at the centre of the principle that taxes should be paid where profits are generated. it is time for all large multinationals to contribute, as do european citizens, to the welfare of society and to collective services.
in writing. - i'll abstain, the text should have been much more incisive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the council directive on rules against certain tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market because i believe that the adoption of the directive is urgent as it will effectively help to combat tax evasion. parliament has made this a qualifying objective, well aware that taxation is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states, but convinced that the current situation, in which there are companies that can avoid paying their fair share of tax, is no longer sustainable, and the recent panama papers scandal requires that we go further and deeper. i shared the clear message of the european parliament to put an end to double taxation, the mechanism which allows multinationals to avoid paying taxes where they make their profits, or not to pay taxes at all, and to control intra-multinational group lending. the average taxation in europe, according to oecd and commission studies, is 19%, a figure in line with that of other industrialized countries. i hope that the eu will be ambitious and that it can make progress in this area. the european parliament will be a strong ally, because fairly shared taxation can help to support sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the eu's objective of building an economic and monetary union must be a priority, achievable through the harmonisation of european taxation. taxation of businesses, particularly multinational companies, must be fair and effective and must become the cornerstone of the single market. if we want to have a reliable single market, it is imperative that the member states reach an agreement on taxation. a coordinated and harmonised approach to the implementation of tax systems is vital to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market and the success of the capital markets union. the main objective of this report is to ensure that multinational companies pay taxes where they make profits. an oecd study estimated that tax avoidance by multinational corporations costs governments worldwide between $100 billion and $240 billion annually. this represents a significant loss of revenue for states, thus reducing their ability to invest in actions that can promote employment, combat poverty and develop effective health systems for all.
in writing. following the panama papers scandal and in connection with previous work in parliament, a report is presented on the implementation of rules against tax evasion. if we are to achieve a reliable single market and promote the success of the capital markets union, it is necessary for member states to reach agreement, creating fair and efficient corporate taxation. the main objective of the report is to create a strong and harmonised system throughout the union which is capable of combating tax evasion, with the essential participation of member states, companies and international partners. the report envisages the implementation of a system which ensures that companies pay taxes in the country where profits are made, and sets out the parameters for a company to be established in a given country. in response to the practice of multinationals of shifting their profits to so-called tax havens, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as reported in caritas' third report on the impact of the economic crisis in europe, the number of poor people in europe is increasing day by day: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the labour market. at the same time, the oecd points out that aggressive tax planning costs governments between 100 and 240 billion dollars a year worldwide, and that their capacity to invest to promote employment and combat poverty is limited. for these reasons, i support the proposal for eu tax harmonisation and fair and efficient taxation of businesses. we must fight against all forms of tax evasion and avoidance, which, as pope francis reminds us, are the prelude to a corruption that is spreading. i therefore support the idea of introducing precise definitions to ensure that a multinational is actually established in a particular country, since this is the only way to oblige it to pay taxes where it makes its profits. finally, in the interests of greater democratic transparency, i believe that the european parliament should have a clear role in monitoring the application of this directive.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the opinion to be sent to the european council. tax evasion has been tolerated for too long as a normal practice, used mainly by large companies and multinationals. this ploy is costing the european union, and especially its citizens and taxpayers, too much. for this reason, as the present european commission has undertaken to do, strong and, above all, effective initiatives are needed. parliament has been at the forefront for over a year of pushing for a system whereby companies pay taxes where they make a profit; in addition, it is crucial that an agreement is reached to prevent multinational groups from taking actions that run counter to the principle of transparency and contribute to the functioning of the country's services and that generate a comparative advantage over competing companies. the european internal market will only become a single market when illegal practices are also recognized, punished and prevented in all the member states.
in writing. ‒ the creation and strengthening of economic and monetary union cannot be achieved without a uniform fiscal framework. given that aggressive tax planning by multinationals entails huge losses which have a bearing on the distribution of wealth, i support the commission proposal and subsequent amendments which provide, among other provisions, for the tax rules of the place where profits are generated to apply. i therefore feel i must vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ aggressive tax planning by multinationals costs the state budget hundreds of billions of euros every year. the package of measures we are approving today is a clear signal to the member states of the need to make ambitious progress in the fight against tax evasion, on the basis of the principle that taxes should be paid where profits are generated. to this end, it is envisaged that: the introduction of precise and binding definitions of the establishment of multinational companies in a given country, to make it impossible to transfer profits to tax havens in order to avoid paying taxes; the creation of a blacklist of tax havens and countries, including european countries, that distort competition through tax regimes favourable to multinationals; clarification of patent rules and more effective controls on lending between entities belonging to the same multinational to prevent abuse. the present system, in which the vast majority of citizens pay their taxes honestly while a few economic giants manage to evade tax obligations, is intolerable. it is time for everyone to contribute equally to the financing of health care, security, schools, universities and youth work policies. i therefore wholeheartedly support the bayet report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a council directive, which i voted in favour of, aims to adopt rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market. in the face of the deadlock in the member states on tax evasion and avoidance, the european parliament is engaged in a real fight against unfair tax practices, which particularly harm small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers. the report proposes that precise and binding definitions be introduced so that multinational companies pay their taxes in the country where they are actually established, thus preventing the transfer of profits to tax havens.
in writing. ‒ according to an oecd study, aggressive corporate tax planning costs between $100 and $240 billion a year, which equals 4-10% of global corporate tax revenues, a huge loss of income that could be invested to increase employment and reduce poverty. the european commission has proposed a directive to establish rules against tax avoidance practices by multinational companies that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. the initial proposal by the european commission against tax avoidance was very weak. the text was strengthened in parliament. progress has been made on many fronts, but the focus of the negotiations has been on tax deductions and rates for large multinationals. we were initially in agreement with the socialist proposals, but during the negotiations with the other political groups the text was watered down more and more. the result was a downward compromise and not as ambitious as we would have liked. the proposed thresholds were ultimately found to be ineffective in combating tax evasion by multinationals. we have once again put forward our requests in plenary, but since they were rejected we have voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr bayer, from the socialist and democratic group, on new rules to combat tax evasion by multinationals. every year, the aggressive tax planning of multinational corporations costs governments worldwide between $100 billion and $240 billion. this is a huge sum, which is being taken away from public budgets and the ability to redistribute wealth by investing in employment, education and poverty reduction policies. this phenomenon must be tackled at european and world level to prevent unfair competition between countries from the point of view of taxation. in this respect the commission's proposal is a step forward and the amendments tabled by the rapporteur help to improve its substance even further. in particular, they emphasize a principle which i share: multinational corporations have to pay taxes where they generate their profits. only then will it be possible to combat effectively the use of tax havens.
in writing. ‒ the fight against international terrorism has been a priority on the political agenda for the last decade. the succession of attacks in various parts of the world, the increase in damage and casualties, has been a major feature of the history of the first two decades of the 21st century, a factor which has required a wider intervention by states to curb and defeat the terrorist phenomenon. on some occasions, however, this intervention has been dangerous, using instruments which clearly violate human rights. in a resolution of february 2015, the european parliament strongly condemned the use of torture, unlawful detention and inhuman and degrading treatment by the cia, which had already been denounced in a report by the us senate. the failure to act on the requests made in that house is the reason for this new motion for a resolution which i have decided to support. the text strongly reiterates the need to continue investigating and prosecuting the perpetrators of human rights violations resulting from the cia's extraordinary rendition and secret detention programmes and calls on the council and the commission to report on these events by june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i found this text to be biased and not to be shared and therefore did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ as this parliament has already stated, the european union and its member states consider any inhuman or degrading treatment, whether it is directed at its own citizens or any third country national, to be reprehensible and unworkable. the legitimate need to combat terrorism, to prevent it, to study it and to understand its dynamics cannot do away with the safeguards, protections and sensitivities which our culture has built up as a bulwark of human life, its dignity and the right to a fair trial by any human being. it is also necessary to reiterate that there must be full cooperation and information sharing by all eu and nato intelligence authorities in all lawful counter-terrorism operations. it is regrettable that the cia has carried out numerous operations on european soil not only without the authorization of the country on whose soil they were carried out, but without even informing its local counterparts. the european parliament must firmly assert its authority and the rights of european citizens in the face of actions which have often proved to be harmful to individual rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today, which strongly condemns the use by the cia of enhanced interrogation techniques, which are prohibited under international law and which violate the right to liberty, security, human treatment, the prohibition of torture, the presumption of innocence, due process, legal aid and equal protection of the law. the position taken in the 2009 us-eu declaration is clear: common efforts to combat terrorism must comply with obligations under international law, in particular international humanitarian and human rights law. the united states of america plays a crucial role in the fight against terrorism, including in europe. transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism must be preserved for the common good of citizens on both sides of the atlantic and in full respect of fundamental human rights and privacy as guaranteed by eu law. the political dialogue between the transatlantic partners on security and counter-terrorism issues, including the protection of civil and human rights, must therefore be continued in order to combat terrorism effectively.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution, of course. i would remind you that transparency is the cornerstone of any democratic society, the condition for government accountability to its citizens. i am therefore deeply concerned about the growing tendency of governments to invoke national security in order to block public scrutiny by citizens. it is extremely dangerous to disable any mechanism of democratic accountability, effectively relieving the government of its responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i disagree with some of the points in it. i am very aware of the strategic importance of transatlantic relations at this time and i am convinced that these relations must be consolidated on the basis of respect for the rule of law in our countries. i would also like to add that the united states of america is playing a key role in the fight against terrorism, also at european level. i would therefore have preferred a resolution more geared towards greater cooperation between the member states and the united states so that there is a more intensive exchange of information between the respective intelligence services so that full democratic control of these services and their activities is guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the us senate intelligence committee report highlighted the use of torture by the cia between 2001 and 2006 as part of its detention and interrogation programs. the case of the guantanamo bay detention centre, for example, where the treatment of detainees has violated respect for human rights and international law. the previous european parliament had already invited the current parliament in 2013 to continue to fulfil and implement the mandate given to it by the temporary committee on the alleged complicity of european countries with the cia in the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. i support this resolution which condemns the use of enhanced interrogation techniques prohibited by international law and deplores the apathy shown by the member states and the eu institutions in recognising the multiple violations of fundamental rights and torture cases that occurred in the eu between 2001 and 2006, in conducting investigations into them and in bringing those responsible to justice. i believe that transatlantic cooperation, while essential for the us and the eu, especially in the current context of the joint fight against terrorism, must not be without regard to the respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the use of torture by the cia. it is necessary to condemn violent practices which do not respect human rights and it is essential to work to prevent and combat them. however, the european union has no competence in the field of national security, which is why it has no legitimacy to launch investigations within the member states potentially involved in supporting such practices. i believe that the seriousness of the matter calls for an apolitical approach, capable of initiating objective investigations in order to limit as far as possible the inhuman practice of torture.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution as it is too unrealistic.
in writing. ‒ international intelligence relations are now of crucial importance to ensure an adequate level of security in western countries increasingly subject to terrorist attacks. however, in the name of a more effective security system, we cannot derogate from the fundamental rights of individuals or, above all, we cannot diminish the role of this parliament, its committees and the work of its members. i therefore join my colleagues in calling on the council to clarify the alleged cases of transport and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia, in the light of the recommendations already made by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in association with the committee on foreign affairs and, in particular, the subcommittee on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate the importance of human rights and their protection in the european union's legal order and believe that transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism must respect fundamental rights. i therefore believe that cooperation between the european union and the united states, which play a key role in european external action, must be a promoter of freedom and fundamental values. i have said that i support the view of my group.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses space technologies in the context of the union's defence and security strategies. although i share the premise, i have my doubts about the possible privatisation of space services and above all, more could be done to ensure that these technologies are used only in defence and security and to avoid their use in an attack. the commission is also concerned about the absence of a genuine european space authority. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ space technologies and r&d are a crucial sector for the near future, in particular due to high returns on investment and the creation of high-quality software and hardware by-products, which find numerous commercial applications. my vote in favour of the zdrojewski report is motivated by the conviction that investment in space technology must be a priority in the context of foreign and security policy. the use of satellite capabilities already makes it possible to identify irregular migrant flows, their routes and, above all, the areas of embarkation on ships in order to intervene more quickly and save more lives. training camps for terrorist groups can be located and monitored, and interventions in areas ranging from maritime security to transport, agriculture and humanitarian crisis management can be strengthened. the achievement of these objectives depends on a general improvement in access to space capabilities as well as on a genuine european independence in critical space technologies. the text adopted calls on the commission to draw up a white paper which can help to identify a coherent european space policy.
in writing. ‒ the report on space capabilities for european security and defence contains unclear passages and is therefore not fully acceptable. i therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ investing in space means pushing companies and research centres to exceed the limits of their current technical and scientific capabilities and knowledge: it means encouraging them to face new problems and to invent new solutions. this has positive implications for all areas of technology for civilian life, from new materials to telecommunications, from satellite positioning systems to energy efficiency. many of the great inventions we use in our daily lives are the products of investments in space research and security and defense: the internet, smartphones, microwaves, many heat-resistant polymers, gps navigators and much more. investing in this sector is therefore investing in the future. it also means investing in the protection of the security of our citizens, because already today and even more so in the coming decades, european states must be prepared to deal with long-range and mixed threats, and any progress in prevention, satellite monitoring and missile interception capabilities is essential to prevent disasters and save many lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe it is essential that the european union strengthens its role as a guarantor of security within and beyond its borders, thereby ensuring the necessary stability in its neighbourhood and in the international arena. at this particular juncture in history, terrorist attacks are making the eu's internal and external security more challenging. we must have the necessary confidence in the space sector's ability to curb terrorism and terrorist organisations. this is possible, for example, through the skills of locating and monitoring training camps. the eu's objective of ensuring autonomy in space facilities is of vital importance for both the civil and the security and defence sectors. it is estimated that in western countries between 6% and 7% of gdp is directly dependent on satellite positioning and navigation technologies. the copernicus programme and its excellent contribution to security should be particularly commended. its useful application can be seen in crisis prevention, humanitarian cooperation and maritime surveillance.
in writing. ‒ i followed the report on the use of space technologies in the context of the european union's security and defence strategy as a member of the european parliament's sede committee. i agree with some of the points made in the draft report, such as the reference to the need for the union to encourage all actors involved in the provision of technology and knowledge to pay attention to space capabilities and services, and to pay attention to the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises. however, i voted against the report both in the commission and in the plenary, because i found a number of criticisms that were not overcome even in the drafting of the compromise. firstly, there is no clear position on the possible risks associated with the privatisation of the space sector. in addition, there is no mention that space instruments should be strengthened only for defence and prevention purposes and that they should not be seen as instruments that can be used by member states in the event of armed attacks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on space capability for european security and defence, because i believe it is crucial to strengthen the common security and defence policy at a time when the security environment, inside and outside the european union, is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging. the new challenges of terrorism and wars on europe's borders require us to make the union's defence and security policy a more effective political instrument and a real guarantee for the security of citizens and for the promotion and protection of european norms and values. i would also like to point out that satellite capabilities can also be used to better assess and identify the flow of irregular migrants and their routes, as well as to identify the boarding areas on ships, so that we can intervene quickly and save lives. the copernicus space-based earth observation programme can help prevent conflict, promote humanitarian support and cooperation, and represent a major scientific advance.
in writing. ‒ in the current international context, deeply destabilised by terrorism and various armed conflicts, space programmes can become an important element of the defence and security policies of the member states. in particular, i believe that european aerospace expertise should also be used to monitor the ground and provide information on the location of strategic targets such as training camps for terrorist groups. the eu has developed an important satellite policy over the years and therefore systems such as copernicus and galileo could play a role in the common security and defence policy (csdp) and, thanks to their versatility, could also be used to identify the routes used by irregular migrants to identify boarding areas on ships and thus prevent further massacres in the mediterranean. however, activities in outer space need to be in line with an international code of conduct to enhance protection and sustainability in space. i share the european union's multilateral initiative in this regard, not only to protect space infrastructure but also to avoid the militarization of space, a risk which we must avoid. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the creation and development of the european space sector, in my view, will bring multiple benefits in the field of security and defence. it is possible, for example, to control borders, illegal immigration and transport by sea and air. these are very sensitive issues and difficult to control without the appropriate means, but i am convinced that the creation of such an autonomous sector, developed and tailored to the needs, can really increase the security of european citizens. this space programme also includes not only the european level but also cooperation between the european union and its member states in order to develop this area as much as possible. these are the reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ independence, competitiveness and work. investing in space policy means giving a boost and launch to one of the most important industrial sectors for our continent, also in relations with all international partners. this is the conviction of the european parliament which has called on the commission, with a view to the adoption of the new european space strategy by the end of the year, to implement the resources for space research programmes. not only that: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also how we will achieve the great goal of growth and development set by europe for 2020.
in writing. ‒ we are all still affected by the events of the past few months which have called into question security in the heart of europe and beyond. ensuring the safety of citizens is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging: terrorist attacks, hybrid wars, they test our defenses every day. i believe that europe must respond by adopting a common strategy and a coordinated response. these security challenges require the strengthening of a common defence policy, in order to make it a more effective political instrument to safeguard citizens, interests and values, as enshrined in the treaty on european union. the space sector is an essential strategic component which the european union must continue to develop in close connection with the common security and defence policy, in compliance with the provisions of the treaty. for example, satellites could become a tool to better assess and identify the origins of illegal immigration flows and areas of embarkation, to ensure a faster way to secure more lives. i think that this effort should be supported, in the exclusive interest of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the effectiveness of this report is not predictable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on space capabilities for european security and defence because i share the importance of space services with regard to both civilian services and the eu's common security and defence policy. space technologies can indeed be important tools in addressing a range of challenges related to the security of citizens, while maintaining the principle of non-militarisation of space as called for by the s&d group. i therefore share parliament's call for the integration of space technologies and space policy into the eu's security and defence strategies. i believe that the sector's contribution to job creation, technological innovation, research and the control of natural disasters is crucial: i therefore share the need to work to bridge the current technological gap with the united states and develop an aerospace industry that can become world-class. the good results of the galileo and copernicus programmes confirm the potential of the sector, and research funding under horizon 2020 can play an important role in addressing the problem of high costs: i therefore share the call to member states, the commission and industry to work together to design the future of the european space industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the security environment, both inside and outside the union, is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, characterised by terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states, in relation to which states need to adopt a common strategy and a coordinated response. these security challenges call for strengthening the security of the union by constantly developing and supporting the eu's common security and defence policy, in order to make it a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantor of the security of eu citizens and the promotion and protection of european norms, interests and values. i believe that the eu needs to strengthen its role as a guarantor of security within its borders and abroad, ensuring stability in its neighbourhood and globally.
in writing. i gave a favourable opinion on the report of the space sector for european security and defence. today more than ever, also as a result of the migration crisis and the terrorist attacks that have undermined the security of our countries and the eu, it is necessary for the member states to work together to establish a harmonised system of national and european border controls. in this context, space policies are essential for maintaining security, and the report highlights the economic importance of developing these skills. i believe that it is essential to promote capacity in these areas and we are working together in the eu to achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the implementation of the common security and defence policy must be pursued with ever greater commitment. in this context, i imagine that the development of space policy is a necessary objective in order to achieve two further objectives: planetary security and security in outer space. i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of data collection and analysis for the european space programme.
in writing. ‒ the security environment, both inside and outside the european union, is becoming increasingly dangerous and difficult to manage, characterised by horrific and asymmetrical wars, terrorist attacks and mass killings. all member states must deal with these threats and the best way to deal with them is certainly to adopt a common strategy. it is therefore essential to continue to work on developing and strengthening the common european security and defence policy, developing more effective instruments to ensure the security of european citizens and the promotion and protection of european norms, interests and values. as regards space technologies, satellites could make an important contribution in certain areas, such as the location and identification of the routes of human traffickers, which in situations such as that in the mediterranean would save many more lives by enabling rescue operations to be launched more quickly. the eu, as also called for by the european council of june 2015, needs to achieve more systematic cooperation in the field of defence, including through a more efficient use of european funds. space policy would also give a major boost to technological innovation in the civil field. for all these reasons i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the space sector, which is the subject of the report discussed and voted on by the afet committee, is a strategic area not only for defence and security, but also one that can bring important benefits to other sectors. the benefits of innovation in this area have repercussions in other economic areas, such as transport, agriculture, climate and energy. concern for space therefore means concern for the citizens of europe. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report presented to the plenary, which stresses the economic importance of developing space capabilities and the necessary cooperation that the european union must establish with the member states in this field.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the own-initiative report on increasing europe's space capability in its security applications. a common space policy, with the implementation of a european satellite system, will in fact be able to guarantee greater security for european citizens, particularly in the fight against terrorism. i particularly appreciated the focus on humanitarian crises: information from space will make it easier to bring aid to areas affected by natural disasters or to people in emergency situations. this potential may prove useful especially in response to the recent migrant crisis, as the text shows. finally, i am convinced that this sector represents an important opportunity for the european economy. investing in space means investing in our research and in our large industries and smes.
in writing. ‒ one of the key elements of the strategy should be the market uptake of space data, services and applications in order to maximise the socioeconomic benefits of european space programmes. the internationalisation of space companies, including smes, is also promoted through improved access to finance and adequate support for the competitiveness of the european space industry. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ space technologies and r&d are a crucial sector for the near future, in particular due to high returns on investment and the creation of high-quality software and hardware by-products, which find numerous commercial applications. my vote in favour of the zdrojewski report is motivated by the conviction that investment in space technology must be a priority in the context of foreign and security policy. the use of satellite capabilities already makes it possible to identify irregular migrant flows, their routes and, above all, the areas of embarkation on ships in order to intervene more quickly and save more lives. training camps for terrorist groups can be located and monitored, and interventions in areas ranging from maritime security to transport, agriculture and humanitarian crisis management can be strengthened. the achievement of these objectives depends on a general improvement in access to space capabilities as well as on a genuine european independence in critical space technologies. the text adopted calls on the commission to draw up a white paper which can help to identify a coherent european space policy.
in writing. ‒ the potential of italian entrepreneurship in the field of space technologies is extremely important. i think it is essential that europe should devise a strategy which will enable it to establish itself in a dominant position in this field and in this market. the return for our enterprises and our territories will certainly be important. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european space strategy currently being developed will have to ensure support, coherence and continuity for the galileo and copernicus programmes, but above all accelerate the process of transferring satellite data into services and applications. we need to make sure that the use of this data is actually useful to society, to research and to entrepreneurs, and i am thinking in particular of innovative start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises. the commercialisation of services based on satellite data covers a wide range of sectors and represents an opportunity that europe cannot afford to lose. it will be essential to have an increasing number of european companies able to exploit the great potential of this data and to make the most of these technologies to provide new value-added services, without forcing the same companies to move outside the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution today because i believe that an ambitious global strategy is needed to ensure that europe has a leading position in space technologies and services in the short and long term. it is of key importance for the galileo and copernicus programmes to use an innovative approach to technology implementation to strengthen european autonomy. the duplication of the programmes mentioned above must be developed and attention must be given to both civil security and defence. space is a highly investment-intensive industry with very long development cycles. although the space industry is a niche sector, it generates a first-class annual turnover. it is estimated that over the next 20 years, the eu's global navigation satellite system will generate economic and social benefits worth between €60 and €90 billion. i am also convinced that there is considerable potential for the commercialisation of space technologies in terms of addressing the recent challenges posed by migration, border management and sustainable development. finally, a future strategy will have to pay particular attention to simplifying access to finance for european start-ups and smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of commercialising space technologies, as i did not find any particular criticisms.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the possibility of having autonomous access to space will bring many benefits to the european union and its citizens. space activities are of considerable importance for scientific progress, innovation and economic growth. in addition, the use of satellite navigation and communication services, in my view, has a significant importance in the implementation of several union policies. i therefore think it is important that the commission presents a comprehensive strategy to ensure that europe has a strong position in the field of space technologies and services so that it can eventually have independent access to space. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution calling on the commission to ensure that europe has a leading position in space technologies and services.
in writing. ‒ given the strategic interest of space programmes, of autonomous access to space in particular, and the economic importance of the aerospace industry, we vote in favour of the resolution. research, investment and related discoveries in this sector, in addition to being an important source of employment and technological development, generate a multiplier effect on other industrial sectors. in particular, noting the remarkable performance and the forecast growth of services in the field of earth observation, we share the call to the european commission to develop a broad strategy to ensure the development of the sector in the long term. we therefore call for the development of a holistic industrial policy, capable of ensuring the competitiveness of european operators. we would therefore support measures to further integrate data exchange systems and to simplify bureaucracy and institutions in order to create a more favourable environment for the actors involved.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the space sector both in terms of technical progress and economic growth, i would stress that open access to space activities would have a significant positive impact on the european union's economy. in this regard, the commission has included in its 2016 work programme the will to act in the framework of a 'space strategy for europe' and this resolution will allow the european parliament to provide its vision. i therefore feel i must vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in line with the epp group and the parliamentary majority, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commercialisation of space technologies. the space sector is a major driver of growth for the european economy. it is not just the preserve of large multinationals, but also of a large number of smes, which help to make this sector one of the most technologically advanced and cutting-edge. this is why non-tariff barriers must be removed, markets expanded and research and development programmes strengthened.
in writing. ‒ venezuela has been facing a deep humanitarian crisis for years, where the lack of food and medicine is accompanied by a stellar increase in the poverty rate, which practically doubled from 2013 to 2016. the high crime rates and complete impunity in the country have only exacerbated the social, economic and political crisis. these factors have contributed to the further deterioration of respect for values such as democracy and human rights, which are seriously undermined in venezuelan territory. the resolution tabled in plenary does not, unfortunately, provide an effective and appropriate action plan to combat these phenomena. for these reasons i voted against, hoping that in future the member states would take decisive action to ensure respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the bolivarian republic of venezuela, led by its president maduro, is today in a situation of serious economic, political and institutional crisis. the motion for a resolution which i have supported today expresses deep concern at the deterioration of the situation in the south american country. the breakdown of the rule of law, human rights violations and the breakdown of the rule of law are alarming factors linked to a worsening humanitarian, health and food crisis. the european union must support the efforts of high representative federica mogherini to restore democracy and dialogue between the democratic opposition and the government. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the death penalty from being abolished in the country. the government and the national assembly must act in concert to implement the reforms needed to lift the country out of its dire economic situation and put an end to the shortage of food and medicine once and for all.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote is balanced and acceptable. the situation in venezuela is untenable. it is necessary to change course as soon as possible and restore the democratic framework of the country, which now seems to have been lost, and at the same time to put an immediate end to the violations of human rights. for all these reasons i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently on the verge of a dramatic crisis that could escalate into serious social disruption, leading to a humanitarian emergency with unforeseeable consequences. the european union, as the world defender of values such as pluralism, the rule of law, cooperation and moderation, must make a strong contribution to the effort to promote dialogue and confrontation between the warring parties, working for a stable, secure and respectful of fundamental human rights venezuela. in this context, i welcome the resolution tabled by the s&d group calling on the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to draw up a cooperation plan with venezuela in order to meet the most pressing needs of a population in distress, and calling on the european council to become an active promoter of mediation between the venezuelan political forces in conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela because the conditions in the country are very worrying. gdp is expected to contract by 10% in 2016. on january 15, the central bank of venezuela after more than a year of no official communications reported that in 2015 inflation was 141.5% and the contraction of gdp was 7.1%. the venezuelan crisis is therefore likely to be explosive and it is necessary to avert a possible economic collapse with the consequences of a humanitarian crisis. the european union must urge the venezuelan government to establish an effective dialogue with the other political parties. i believe that a dialogue that allows all political actors to discuss the serious problems facing the country is the only way for venezuela at this stage to find lasting and decisive solutions to improve the current conditions in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i did not agree with the majority groups who, in my opinion, produced a partisan resolution whose clear intention was to encourage a change of government in venezuela. i would have preferred a more balanced text which, while acknowledging the responsibility of the venezuelan government, did not hold it solely responsible for what is happening. questions arise about the interest that certain parties might have in a change of government in venezuela, with particular reference to the country's wealth of natural resources.
in writing. ‒ venezuela has been suffering from serious internal imbalances lately, both politically and economically. there have been several political conflicts within the country which have even led to the arrest, for political reasons, of two thousand people including prominent politicians. i am deeply concerned about the situation in the country which is not only experiencing such political conflicts but is also facing a serious crisis due to lack of food and medicine. i am convinced that the european union must help the country by urging the government and the public authorities to restore normal social relations, respect the constitution and release political prisoners. i voted in favour of the resolution because that is what it says.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it illustrates the serious state of affairs in venezuela, its democratic deficit and the terrible economic conditions. i also believe that it is a matter of the utmost priority to reduce the current high levels of impunity, which exacerbate and fuel the growing violence and insecurity in the country, and to ensure that the legal order is respected.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is facing a situation of serious violation of the rule of law and a consequent humanitarian crisis due to the boycott action of the national government. more than 2,000 people are in prison, under house arrest or on probation for political reasons. in addition, the level of impunity is very high: the city of caracas has the highest violent crime rate in the world, with over 119.87 murders per 100,000 inhabitants. i believe that the use of state power by the executive to control the supreme court and the national electoral council, to obstruct the implementation of laws and initiatives adopted by the national assembly, is a particularly dangerous fact in the current social and political context already marked by great instability. i voted in favour of this resolution so that the european parliament can help to put pressure on the venezuelan government to respect the separation of powers, release political prisoners, allow humanitarian aid access and enforce the laws to prevent and punish the increasingly widespread criminal acts.
in writing. ‒ venezuela's economic, political and institutional crisis is having a profound impact on the lives of its citizens. according to an encovi survey, the poverty rate has doubled from 30% in 2013 to 60% in 2016, and there is a lack of basic goods such as food and medicine, as well as a very high crime rate. the imf also estimates that the venezuelan economy will shrink by 8% in 2016 and that inflation will increase exponentially, making it difficult to buy basic necessities. my vote in favour of this resolution is a vote to support the mediation of former presidents zapatero, torrijos and fernadez under the aegis of the unsar union of south american nations in the search for solutions to the venezuelan crisis, including through the involvement of the commission and the high representative for foreign affairs of the eu. the failure to respect the principles of separation of powers, the freedom of political opponents and the impasse between the president and parliament are in fact preventing a constructive dialogue between the powers of the institutions, which is now more necessary than ever for the good of the citizens and the country as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela. the deteriorating climate of the rule of law, democracy and socioeconomic situation in venezuela must be a matter of concern and action for the eu, calling first and foremost for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we must engage in a dialogue with the democratic opposition in venezuela, which controls parliament, and bring the crisis to a more peaceful solution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution calling for respect for the opposition and for respect for human rights, especially in relation to opposition politicians.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this resolution on the situation in venezuela as the situation in the country has deteriorated further and the eu needs to make its voice heard on this matter known and to put political pressure on the government of venezuela. venezuela is in great need of restarting an internal political dialogue and to this end i hope that european political pressure can do its part. venezuela is running the risk of falling into a socio-economic abyss, which would create immense regional instability, as so the eu most use all avenues of political action to try to find a solution to the crisis as well as to keeping up pressure on the venezuelan government to address the current concerns on human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the situation in venezuela must be taken seriously, in its entirety, and with the aim of building the basis for a genuine mechanism of dialogue and national reconciliation. the venezuelan authorities have a duty to restore the rule of law, ensure the security and free exercise of rights of all citizens, in particular human rights defenders. i hope that the presence of the delegation has laid the foundations for a real analysis of the situation in the country but above all has made the government aware of a concrete and timely change by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is facing a critical institutional situation, given the high crime rate and political instability in the country, and an economic one. i believe that in order to reach a common solution, a dialogue between the government, the democratic opposition and society is necessary. i support the request in the resolution to send a delegation of the european union to define the issue and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by members of the ppe group on the situation in venezuela. the text in question is intended to express parliament's profound solidarity with venezuela, a country suffering from a serious economic and social crisis. the recession that has hit venezuela has been described as the worst in the world, which seems unheard of for a country that holds the largest oil reserves. parliament also expressed its concern at the institutional impasse in the country, where the rule of law and human rights are not recognised by the incumbent government. by voting for this text, i join the rest of the house in urging the venezuelan government to restore respect for democratic principles and the fundamental freedoms of the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for the commission to adopt delegated acts for the establishment of scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors has been over for more than two and a half years. it was a clear, precise and unconditional obligation. however, as early as march 2013, an ad hoc scientific committee set up by the commission itself had made a comprehensive proposal on the scientific criteria based on three years of work by experts. however, the commission has never taken this into account because the commission, in open violation of european law and the treaties, felt the need to carry out an impact assessment, a socioeconomic impact assessment only, an absolutely inadequate instrument for deciding on a scientific issue affecting health and the environment. we cannot tolerate this arrogance of the commission for much longer. that reason fully supported the motion for a resolution voted today. parliament is a democratic expression of the will of the european citizens and it is its duty to condemn the commission for failing to fulfil its obligations and we ask that it be determined as soon as possible what is an endocrine disruptor or not, and only on the basis of sound scientific criteria. we must protect our citizens and above all we, their representatives, must do so.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation has identified endocrine disruptors as a global threat, with particular reference to the increasing trend of many endocrine disorders in humans and animals. the hazardous nature of these chemicals would require rapid regulatory action to define scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties. the commission, which was to have fulfilled this role by the end of 2013, did not do so, and the court of justice of the european union ruled last december that the commission had breached eu law by failing to adopt the appropriate delegated acts. the motion for a resolution which i have voted for today condemns the commission for its failure to comply with the directive and calls on it to submit scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties by the summer, thus putting an end to this dangerous lack of legislation.
in writing. ‒ under the biocidal products regulation, the commission was required to adopt delegated acts by 13 december 2013 concerning the definition of scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances and biocides. however, it has not yet adopted such acts, despite a judgment of the court of justice. this is scandalous and i certainly do not intend to support this resolution with my vote, which sounds like little more than a slight reproach from this parliament to the commission.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to condemn the commission's delay in publishing the scientific criteria needed to identify and reduce exposure to hormone-disrupting chemicals, which are considered a global threat by the world health organisation and the un environment programme (unep). the commission's continued delays in publishing those criteria, which were due to be made public by the end of 2013, constitute a breach of community law and its institutional obligations under the treaties. i would stress that, according to the judgment of the court of justice of the eu of 16 december 2015, the determination of these scientific criteria by the commission can only be made in an objective manner on the basis of scientific data relating to the endocrine system, independently of any other considerations, in particular of an economic nature. endocrine disruptors pose a danger to the health and well-being of citizens. the commission must start protecting european citizens, not the chemical industry.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to send an important political message to the european commission. the latter has not yet fulfilled its obligation to adopt specific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances and biocides. the court of justice has also ruled on this failure. i therefore voted in favour of the report which expresses parliament's dissatisfaction with the commission's failings and calls on it to do its utmost to comply with eu law.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european institutions must stand by the citizens and try to give maximum attention to their health. there are some active substances which are considered to have endocrine disrupting properties capable of producing harmful effects in humans and which are not, for obvious reasons, approved. however, more than 2 years after the expiry date, the commission has not yet adopted those acts concerning the definition of the scientific criteria. i therefore agree with this resolution, since there is no doubt that the commission has not yet complied with the judgment of the court of justice, and i hope that it will comply with its obligations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ following the judgment of the court of justice where it is recognised that the commission had a clear and precise obligation to adopt delegated acts concerning the definition of scientific criteria for the detection of endocrine disruptors in the context of the implementation of the regulation on plant protection products and biocides, it is recognised that the above criteria are not yet in place. i therefore support the call on the commission to honour its commitment and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 528/2012 required the commission to adopt delegated acts by 13 december 2013 concerning the establishment of scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products. sweden, with the support of, inter alia, the european parliament, has sued the commission for failure to adopt those delegated acts. the court of justice of the european union has held that the commission has breached eu law in this area, has not yet complied with the judgment of the court of justice and continues to breach eu law. the judgment of the court of justice emphasises that the determination of scientific criteria must be made only in an objective manner on the basis of scientific data relating to the endocrine system. i, along with other members from various groups, had proposed that the juncker commission should be discredited: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the resolution voted today is less strong but has the merit of bringing together large and small groups and of sending a political signal to the commission that parliament still does not believe it has fulfilled its obligations as 'guardian of the treaties'.
in writing. this resolution, which i voted in favour of, condemns the european commission's delay in publishing the scientific criteria needed to identify and reduce exposure to chemicals that interfere with hormonal activities in humans and animals. the report of the united nations environment and world health organization calls endocrine disruptors a "global threat", referring to the trend of increasing numbers of endocrine disorders in humans and wildlife. it is considered that there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate the harmful effects on reproduction (infertility, tumours, malformations) caused by exposure to these substances, which could also affect the normal functioning of the thyroid gland and brain, and interfere with obesity, metabolism, insulin and glucose homeostasis. the european court of justice ruled in december 2015 that the eu executive had breached community law by failing to publish these criteria, which were supposed to be made public by the end of 2013 under community law. the commission is therefore guilty not only of failing to comply with the obligation to adopt scientific criteria but also of failing to comply with its institutional obligations as laid down in the eu treaties.
in writing. ‒ president juncker promised to democratize the process of marketing gmos. the authorisation concerns a transgenic maize resistant to two pesticides with active substances glufosinate and glyphosate. glyphosate in particular is a product that is potentially dangerous to human health and there is currently no consensus in the scientific community. that is why i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the objection to a commission delegated act authorising the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21 maize. one of these maize contains the pat protein, which gives tolerance to herbicides and is found to be based on glyphosate, a substance considered to be a potential carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer. in view of the potential health hazard, i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection, reiterating the need for the commission to draw up as soon as possible a comprehensive proposal on gmos and gm-based feed in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21
in writing. ‒ the widespread use of gm products is a very worrying practice, which i believe needs to be carefully limited, because of the risk of significant adverse effects on natural ecosystems and human health resulting from their use. the gradual and growing use of gm crops is in fact the cause of an increase in the use of herbicides (such as glyphosate or glufosinate) which can seriously affect the delicate biological balance of nature, while threatening the human health of consumers. several authoritative studies have highlighted the high risk of carcinogenicity following the use of many herbicides (including glyphosate), a risk which increases significantly in the event of cultivation of gmo products. i therefore believe that the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize and cloves should be strongly opposed. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the draft measures, which it considers to be a manifest error of assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection in question today, which calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing act authorising the placing on the market of products containing a particular type of genetically modified maize. i am of the opinion that as long as there are concerns about the harmful effects on health resulting from the consumption of food containing genetically modified organisms, the commission should not authorise the sale of such food. in these cases, the precautionary principle must always prevail because the primary objective of the european union is to protect the health of all citizens. the objection relates to the fact that the maize in question has been treated to tolerate glyphosate-based herbicides. a few months ago the european parliament voted in favour of another objection which opposed the renewal of the approval of the active substance itself on the basis of the opinion of the international agency for research on cancer which classified it as probably carcinogenic to humans. in the light of all these factors, i thought it appropriate to oppose the marketing of this maize.
in writing. ‒ the authorisation concerns a transgenic maize resistant to two pesticides with active ingredients glufosinate and glyphosate. the dangers of glyphosate are the subject of a controversy between the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) in lyon, which classifies it as a probable carcinogen, and efsa, which does not. the degradation products are also likely to interfere with the proper functioning of the endocrine system. i therefore oppose this authorization. the aim is to put pressure on the commission to come forward with a new proposal to democratize the process of marketing gmos as promised by mr junker at the beginning of his mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am in favour of stopping trade in this product. or at least i think the eu should act more consistently when it comes to gmos: it is not sensible for our domestic production to allow trade and not allow cultivation. until this inconsistency is resolved, i think it is appropriate that trade should not be allowed either.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution which challenges the placing on the market of a gmo.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft authorisation concerns the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize, resistant to two pesticides with active ingredients glufosinate and glyphosate. it should be noted that despite the divergent opinions on the matter, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), part of the world health organization (who), has classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. opposition to this and other gmo authorizations issued by the commission without the support of the majority of either the member states or the european parliament is intended as a form of protest against the current authorization system and an invitation to the commission to suspend the decision in the event that the technical committee does not issue a majority opinion. i therefore oppose this authorization as well, pending a substantial democratic change in the current system for the authorization of gmos.
in writing. ‒ president juncker promised during his election campaign to democratize the process of marketing gmos. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionising radiation. that is why i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4)
in writing. ‒ the widespread use of gm products is a very worrying practice, which i believe needs to be carefully limited, because of the risk of significant adverse effects on natural ecosystems and human health resulting from their use. the gradual and growing use of gm crops is in fact the cause of an increase in the use of herbicides (such as glyphosate or glufosinate) which can seriously affect the delicate biological balance of nature, while threatening the human health of consumers. several authoritative studies have highlighted the high risk of carcinogenicity following the use of many herbicides (including glyphosate), a risk which increases significantly in the event of cultivation of gmo products. i therefore believe that the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize and cloves should be strongly opposed. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the draft measures, which it considers to be a manifest error of assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection in question today, which calls on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing act authorising the placing on the market of a particular type of genetically modified carnation. i believe that the precautionary principle must always prevail when environmental protection is at stake. the efsa studies state that the potential for pollen spread by lepidopterans of this particular type of carnation cannot be excluded and that its stems cut with vegetative shoots may spread into the environment by rooting or micropropagation. in addition, once their ornamental function is over, gm carnations become waste which, in accordance with the principles of the circular economy, can be disposed of by composting and used as fertilisers. in the light of all these factors, i have considered it appropriate to oppose the placing on the market of this carnation.
in writing. ‒ the authorisation in question concerns the marketing of a transgenic carnation intended for cut-up sale. although many of the reasons for opposing the risks posed by gmos are missing in this case, since these are cut flowers and not intended for human consumption, the request not to authorise the product remains a form of protest against the current authorisation system. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the trade in genetically modified carnations must be stopped. this trade is a major handicap for the main carnation-producing countries, such as italy and france. i do not think that this trade is fair, and it is a serious threat to small producers. they would find unfair competition because producers of gm carnations can benefit from high production at a much lower cost to the small business owner. carcinogens have also been found in the genetically modified carnation which could cause problems in humans and animals if consumed intentionally or accidentally.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of this resolution which is against the inclusion of a gmo.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing decision concerns the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation for ornamental purposes. from a substantive point of view, there are some problematic aspects. for example, once the ornamental function of carnations is over, they become waste which, in accordance with the principles of the circular economy, can be disposed of by composting. however, efsa has not yet examined the impact of these emissions on the environment, nor has it assessed the possible consequences for humans of the intentional consumption of carnations. from a formal point of view, opposition to this and other gmo authorizations issued by the commission without the support of the majority of either the member states or the european parliament is intended as a form of protest against the current authorization system and an invitation to the commission to suspend the decision in the event that the technical committee does not issue a majority opinion. for the reasons stated above, i am also opposed to this authorization and support this objection, hoping for a decisive democratic change in the current system of authorization of gmos.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on legal affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the presentation requirements for certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012 (14956/2/2015 - c8-0129/2016 - 2013/0119 ((cod)) (rapporteur: madyva delux) (a8-0156/2016).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the work done by mrs delvaux and her collaborators, the shadows who worked with her, is excellent. the regulation is a step, however modest, in the right direction. the foundation of the european union and its cohesion is free movement. without it the european union would not have the possibilities which objectively still lie before it. so it was important to simplify, to give the individual citizen the possibility to move around without the obstacles they face today. there are two things, however, that need to be done just as quickly. one is the one you already called: it is very important that the member states work to make this measure known. there is nothing worse than doing the right thing and then not being able to present it and not making it known, because then it loses its value, whereas we need this regulation to be implemented and applied quickly. the second theme is one which has already been mentioned by some of my colleagues, most recently by mr zwiefka. there are other elements which need to be added to the regulation, information which is not there today, but which is very sensitive because it gives a strong idea of citizenship, from those which concern businesses, and which have economic value, to those which concern individuals, i think diplomas, training certificates, certificates of disability, in other words everything which makes everyday life a life worth living. that's what regulations and laws are for.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mady delvaux, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council conferring jurisdiction at first instance on the court of justice of the european union to rule on disputes between the union and its servants (n8-0110/2015 - c8-0367/2015 - 2015/0906 ((cod)) (a8-0167/2016).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the umpteenth stage of what our rapporteur, mrs delvaux, has also called the 'controversial reform of the court of justice'. last october this parliament unfortunately endorsed the doubling of the number of judges at the court of first instance from 28 to 56. now parliament is about to approve the abolition of the civil service tribunal, a decision whose constitutionality has been questioned by eminent jurists, including university professors and judges of the same court of first instance. i want to make this clear: in addition to the waste of public resources, in addition to the negative considerations about the effects of the reform, it seems to us very questionable that the power of the union legislator to create new courts also includes the power to proceed to their abolition, thus changing a judicial architecture that is certainly constitutional and written in the founding treaties. we believe in the rule of law and therefore cannot approve a reform which ignores the treaties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a few months ago i expressed my opposition to the doubling of the number of judges here, for reasons which have been repeated by other members. that measure was unfounded, had no objective reasons and risks becoming a further dislocation of a very delicate and important structure for the european institutions. mrs delvaux's work is valuable and important, and it seeks to remedy some of the distortions that were already easily foreseeable. it will now be very important to ensure that the civil service tribunal, which will be absorbed by the rest of the court and which has acquired in the course of these years very valuable powers, does not see these powers being cancelled, because if that were the case, we would not only be harmed but also be ridiculed. i would add that the issue of the recognition of the role of women in this work, which has been raised repeatedly, and that of gender equality in the creation of the future court, is not just a matter of good intentions, but also of constraints. otherwise we will continue to talk about the value of women's work, about the necessary presence of women, but we will not achieve anything. so if this issue remains a topic that is being raised and is not translated into concrete action, i believe that it will lose value and credibility in the eyes of the european citizens. i therefore believe that quotas are binding and that they must be introduced in the desirable integration of the standard.
(the end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure) we thank commissioner avramopoulos for following the debate in its entirety, but the commission has informed us that it does not wish to intervene in this debate which is based, as has been repeatedly stated, on a proposal from the court of justice.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2016. (the sitting was suspended at 4.25 p.m. and resumed at 4.50 p.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the proposal is to abolish a so-called 'special' court (one dedicated to settling disputes) because its functions would be carried out by the court of justice, as the staff of the latter is expected to increase considerably, up to the doubling of the number of judges. however, the reason behind this necessity is not clear, and it will certainly require a considerable outlay of public money. in addition, a function which was previously entrusted to judges highly qualified in the subject-matter in question will now be transferred to more 'generalist' judges, with a consequent reduction in quality. efficient and effective justice is a fundamental right of all european citizens, and this must be the sole objective of any action in this area.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is above all the absence of border controls. if you don't believe us, ask austria, which is not by chance guarding the brenner border. this common database doesn't work because it can't work, it's basically an empty database. no state sends the data, it is impossible for the states to give content to these databases in the absence of effective controls for example on the communities of islamists in general, on the clandestine people who continue to flow, even now to lampedusa through the italian coasts, without any effective control, as they have entered tens, perhaps hundreds of thousands in recent years alone. since 2014, foreign fighters from iraq and syria have more than doubled. it is currently estimated that there are about 6 000, of which two thirds have returned to europe, but only 60% have been reported to europol. this is your data, not mine. the calculation is made on the basis of only five countries. the databases do not work if the external borders, in addition to the internal borders, are a crossroads and are a crossroads: we go there to get the illegals, we can't control them, we don't control them, we don't want to control them. what does our authorities need to know if mohammed or abdul are foreign fighters if they can freely enter and leave the borders. the perpetrators of the recent attacks have already been identified and reported, but no action has been taken against them. they are free to roam around like wild birds, to go back and forth from brussels and to go to paris and back again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels a few months ago have made it even clearer, if need be, that there is an urgent need for coordinated action at european level, without which it will be difficult to combat terrorism, international terrorism, a phenomenon which transcends the borders of individual member states, as is the case with organized crime, effectively. this too, and we are finally beginning to realise this, is a phenomenon of transnational crime sometimes linked to terrorism or to more serious crimes, such as human trafficking, and for which only full crossborder cooperation between law enforcement authorities can make the fight against this phenomenon effective. after the tragic events of terrorism in europe, we have learned a sad lesson: the exchange of information between national authorities has not worked. we have learned later that in some cases the perpetrators of these crimes were already known in some member states. we are not here today, of course, nor is this the place to find out what went wrong, but we are here to give appropriate responses to the threat of terrorism and the most serious transnational crimes. the house recently approved the new europol regulation and the pnr directive, which are also instruments to be used to prevent and combat international terrorism. the revision of the ecris system is also welcome in this respect. these and other existing instruments, however, will not be effective unless member states provide adequate data base provision with a willingness to pool information, a requirement which is also being considered in the update of the counter-terrorism directive. finally, the commission's communication of 6 april on improving the interoperability of information systems is important both for better border management and for external security. however, even here, the right balance must be struck between the information provided for security purposes and the fundamental requirement of respect for rights and privacy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism knows no borders. only a joint effort by the european union and the member states can bring about an effective response. the european union, in particular, must provide the necessary tools to address the cross-border nature of the threat. national authorities should be informed of the movements of terrorists and this data should be shared with member states and european union agencies through europol's european counter-terrorism centre. member states' intelligence services should facilitate the exchange of useful information by establishing the conditions for making the most of all existing platforms, databases and alert systems at european level, such as the schengen information system and the passenger early warning system. we also need more effective operational cooperation between member states and third countries through the use of existing instruments such as joint investigation teams, the financial transaction monitoring programme and the pnr. joint actions and the sharing of databases at all levels, but with appropriate safeguards for the protection of data and the privacy of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have reminded us, the use of a common information system and databases is essential to combat crime, but all crime. there is a lot of talk, as you have heard, about terrorism, and it is understandable. but i would not like this to lead to a marginalisation, to a reduction in the very widespread phenomenon of serious crimes involving the economic dimension. so, you have to standardize the data to make it comparable, you have to coordinate everything that you have available. all information must be measured and built into a system which makes it possible to verify the different conditions in each country. we need confidentiality, but i would add that we also need timeliness. time is a very important variable: early action is effective for several reasons, including that it has a deterrent effect on criminals. that's why we have to hurry.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of voting in turkey now? the question will probably be asked by the turkish people, since the ratios of forces and the numbers in the turkish parliament are bound to change with the entry into force of this liberticidal choice and the opening of trials against hdp parliamentarians. erdogan's stated aim is to distort the constitutional charter to further concentrate power in his hands. the indictment and arrest of 138 - i repeat 138 - kurdish parliamentarians will create the same vacuum of representation that brought turkish kurdistan to the brink of civil war in the past, and that is the situation today, if we see the terrible bulletins that come from ankara every day. this is yet another act that erdogan is carrying out in front of a weak and silent europe, which does not have the courage to denounce him as it deserves. how can we still talk about the accession process not with turkey, but with this turkey, which is trampling on the rule of law? you can't take away this immunity! the real tragedy, the real danger to democracy is not so much the authoritarianism of erdogan, but the silence of europe, and we do not want to remain silent any longer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's amendment of the constitutional amendment tabled by the akp for the selective lifting of parliamentary immunity is a very worrying act, aggravated by president erdogan's comment that it was a historic moment for the country. it certainly marks an increasingly clear break with the rights and values that the european union protects and promotes, as stated in the appeal letter that i signed with many colleagues a few weeks ago in an attempt to counter this serious measure. the proposal put forward yesterday by the minister for defence to give disproportionate legal cover to the army and the intelligence services deployed for security operations against terrorist groups is undoubtedly yet another step in the wrong direction beyond the just condolences for the terrorist attacks already mentioned in this house. we really hope that the turkish government will back off, otherwise it will not be possible to continue cooperation with the european union on the various issues under discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the lifting of the immunity and after the constitutional court rejected the appeal of the pro-kurdish hdp party, the objective is clear: 55 of the 59 members of the hdp are to be tried. this is a clear attempt to change the parliamentary make-up in order to concentrate power in the hands of president erdogan. the european commission must get out of the contradictions which characterize its relations with turkey. we have a duty and a responsibility to use all our negotiating power to prevent this from happening. we cannot, on the altar of stabilization, give funds for the management of migration flows to a country with undemocratic ambitions. it is necessary to insist on the application of the principle of conditionality, respect for human rights and the rule of law in the further development of any type of relationship and dialogue with turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the lifting of parliamentary immunity in turkey, more than 100 opposition members of parliament are at risk of being arrested and leaving parliament. clearly, the country is still in a state of authoritarianism. doubts are raised by several parties about the independence, impartiality and efficiency of the judiciary, the separation of powers and respect for the rule of law. criticism is recorded in relation to the press and the media. reporters without borders ranks turkey as one of the countries where journalists are most exposed to threats and physical attacks. the strict authoritarian nature of the institutional system requires the european union, in the face of these serious violations of the rule of law, to give serious thought to its future relations with turkey and the continuation of the negotiations for the accession of this country to the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has been waiting for two years to hear the council's position on the modernisation of the trade defence instruments, the so-called tdi. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing rules to include the possibility of a new regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union, in particular the principle of proportionality. unfortunately, none of these instruments would be effective if china were to acquire market economy status. if it is necessary to intervene on certain technical aspects, such as the time limits for procedures or the lesser duty rule, it is all the more essential that the commission be able to guarantee their impartial application in order to protect a genuine common and european interest. in fact, in the past, in the practical application of the rules, the commission has often been an arbiter inadequate to the context of the economic crisis and today some member states feel that on essential aspects, such as the determination of the profit margin, it can proceed without the involvement of this parliament. parliament has expressed clear positions which point in one direction only. it did so two years ago on trade defence instruments and it did so a month ago on the china esm. we now await to see how the council and the commission will respect our work.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another proof that the european union is a cage from which we can get out the sooner the better, because it does everything but defend the interests of the european citizens. summary for our followers: if a manufacturer of toys, shoes, furniture, textile machinery, ceramic products finds that his product is copied and counterfeited, for example in china, the european union does nothing, does not move a finger. in fact, perhaps after a year and a half, when the italian company has already closed and has already failed, they will perhaps intervene. does it seem normal to you that we have been debating for three years something that a child in a nursery school thinks is urgent and necessary, namely to defend our products? the commissioner, the minister, go outside an italian steel company and explain to the workers that this building is doing nothing in the face of their dismissal. the solar panels, the steel, the textiles, the tunisian oil, the rice from burma. the big news today is that for the first time in history europe will pay its farmers in october, not march, not april, not may, not june, but october, with thousands of farms already in crisis. some people here should be ashamed of themselves, some people here are paid by european citizens to serve the interests of others, of multinationals, bankers, financiers, to make secret deals with the united states, to make secret deals with china, while hundreds of thousands of jobs are being lost in italy and europe. every day hundreds of firms close their doors, while the commission reflects, assesses and opens a table. shame on you. the sooner we get out of this nuthouse, the better for everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to repeat the reasons which have already been given for the need for the council to take note of the urgent need, which is now indisputable, to adopt the commission's proposal. we must have trade defence instruments which are designed to protect first and foremost the system of our small and mediumsized european enterprises, which are the most exposed to the dangers of unfair competition. of course there is a problem of european industry which we want to bring down to 20% of gdp, and of course these are facts which the council cannot avoid in relation to a situation which parliament has increasingly proposed, enhanced and strengthened in the direction indicated, especially with regard to the issue of the recognition of the status of china. the role of parliament cannot be overlooked. parliament has already expressed its position on this matter on several occasions. we therefore ask the council to act urgently with a favourable opinion on the commission proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago and today there is a very large majority in this parliament for a reform of trade defence instruments. the council should take note of this. we have not said that we want a closed, protectionist, isolated europe. the instruments of trade defence are precisely those of defence: they intervene when unfair behaviour is detected. we have clearly asked that any wto pluses be consistent with the principle of full reciprocity and that they be decided always within the world trade organisation. today, however, we find that the main issues on which parliament has expressed itself clearly, for example the lesser duty rule, the application of which was to be limited also in cases of social and environmental dumping, have been reopened in the council. we say it clearly, other colleagues have said it: the commission and the council must work in close cooperation with the european parliament. the starting point must be the position expressed by parliament at first reading. the council cannot continue to be held hostage to opposing views, as the present steel crisis shows, because the consequences, the costliest price, are paid by our workers and our undertakings.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all let me say that i very much sense the degree of unrest, impatience and worry that exists in this house regarding the issue of the unfair trade practices. i think it is a very important signal also for the council and for the presidency work and i will come back to that in a second because i do understand very much the sense of urgency, not only for the people, the workers, in europe, but also because we have a time limit because of some aspects that you mentioned regarding the wto. first of all, let me also say that i do not think it is a debate here between free traders or fair traders or protectionists. i think we all share the concerns regarding the issue of the strengthening of our trade defence instruments in order to tackle unfair trade practices and distortions of competition, as well as to ensure a global level playing field for the european union. so the signal from this parliament is very clear and i definitely take note of it and we will benefit from it at the presidency of the european union. secondly, let me also say that, at the council of 13 may, trade ministers had a debate on the commission’s latest ideas on how to strengthen the eu’s trade defence instruments and i see exactly the same differences here in this house on this as i see in the council. let us not assume that we always all agree in the same way. i am not a president who believes in institutions blaming each other. i hear massively that it is the council. yes, i said honestly that we disagree there. that is not good. we have to speed it up and i am very honest about it. but it is something else to just simply say that the council does not work. i think one of the members out of frustration – which i fully support and understand – even said that we should even change the rules and the parliament should rule and not the council. well, congratulations, we will see if we have a unified position quicker then. but the signal is very clear. i think all of you have mentioned issues that are very, very crucial to us. we have a community of law, we have a qualified majority on this issue and therefore, because of the reasons that you mentioned – and i therefore share your frustration on this because the world economy continues and the issue of overcapacity remains, and our people are waiting for us – in the light of the changed context resulting from chinese dumping practices and the crisis in the european union steel industry, the presidency has reopened a discussion in the council on the draft regulation on the modernisation of the trade defence instruments. this was proposed by the presidency. we will continue to do that. we have just announced the intention to start an examination again on 14 june of those issues in the trade defence instruments modernisation package which could in principle be accepted by a majority of the member states. there are quite a few different forms on that regarding anti—dumping and anti-subsidy investigation proceedings and improving the methodology of calculating the injury and profit margins. i think we have to realise that, in a europe where we work together and the issue of the qualified majority is there, it is not always easy to find a consensus, but since we are one economic bloc and one trading bloc, we will have to succeed quicker on this, and there i share some of your frustrations as well. but let us not assume that this is just a problem only in the council. this is something i think we have to work on together in an effective manner. let me put one other issue on the agenda in that respect. we need to ensure that the benefits of the global economy are widely shared, also in europe. that includes – yes – countering unfair trade practices, but it also includes fighting protectionism and making the argument for trade as a means to create economic opportunities for workers, consumers and companies. some of you have mentioned that. especially in those choices – the political, economic choices we have to make right now – it is true that it is frustrating that we do not yet have a consensual position from the council. i think we have time limits in front of us. as i told you, the presidency has taken a few initiatives. we will also again bring the signals from this parliament to these working groups and i think we have to work here in the parliament, in the commission and in our respective national contexts on finding a solution to this problem.
in writing. after 20 years of intense macroeconomic change, aided by increasing globalisation and the emergence of new economic players, it is essential that trade defence instruments are reformed so that they can respond more effectively to changing conditions and thus restore fair conditions in the internal market. we therefore welcome the renewed attention to this sensitive subject but we reiterate here that any negotiations with the council and the european commission will have to start with the european parliament's report. on 16 april 2014, parliament rejected the commission's reform proposal by a large majority, considering that the eu should not make concessions that go beyond the provisions of international regulations, in order to protect the interests of european workers and businesses. in fact, following the wto+ approach, the unilateral granting of more favourable conditions would give a competitive advantage to trading partners and thus seriously harm european industry, which does not enjoy such privileges abroad. we therefore take this opportunity to express our deep regret at the impasse created within the council. the seriousness of the situation, as demonstrated by the crisis in the steel industry and the continuing loss of jobs, calls for urgent action.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr katainen, vice-president of the commission, mr minister, i am presenting the oral question on behalf of the committee on the environment. as you know, in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency informed the international whaling commission that they had resumed whaling under a new program. the plan, which will run for 12 years, would lead to the killing of 333 humpback whales during the 2015-2016 season and a total of around 4 000 whales over the 12 years of the programme. in this decision to resume whaling, japan clearly ignores the ruling of the international court of justice which, in its decision of 31 march 2014, ordered japan to stop its annual killing of whales in the antarctic ocean. whaling is a very old tradition in many countries, and in japan it has been practiced for thousands of years. but in the 1980's the need to stop the indiscriminate killing of whales became apparent, and it was banned in order to prevent the extinction of the species. since 1986, when the moratorium of the international whaling commission came into effect, commercial whaling has been illegal in japan as well. but the following year japan continued to kill these animals, in defiance of the court's ruling, by misusing a loophole in the international whaling commission's policy of allowing scientific research programmes to be used as a motive for killing whales. but as you all know, the international court of justice has concluded that, in this case, the whaling is not being conducted for the purpose of scientific research, as the japanese authorities and government have otherwise claimed. the resumption of whaling by the japanese authorities therefore constitutes a violation of international law and threatens the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. the same exception as japan would no longer be valid today, since scientific research itself no longer permits the extermination of whales. in this context, we would therefore welcome a reply from the commission and the council to the following questions: in addition to the steps which will be endorsed by the european union delegation in tokyo, do you intend to condemn more strongly japan's decision to resume whaling and to hunt and kill 333 specimens of humpback whales during the 2015-2016 season? are you considering other means of putting pressure on japan through bilateral or multilateral channels? if this does not produce the desired results, will you take legal action to ensure that japan complies with the judgment of the international court of justice?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly one year ago in this house we were discussing the same subject and condemning whaling in japan. we have just learned that this country is going to resume this practice as part of a new 12-year plan which will allow the killing of some 4 000 whales. in the recently concluded summer season of scientific whaling - my colleague said this too - on whales in the antarctic seas, japanese whalers brought home 333 minors killed, of whom about 200 were pregnant. the international court of justice in the hague had deemed it necessary to suspend this practice, as it had no scientific purpose, also because, as we know, so-called scientific evidence often ended up on the shelves of japanese supermarkets. by resuming whaling, japan is clearly ignoring this ruling and the international commitments it has signed to stop the annual slaughter in the southern ocean. japan's intention is in clear contradiction to the international moratorium on commercial hunting of sea giants, and is a continuing violation of international law and obligations to protect biodiversity and marine ecosystems. europe must stand up and it cannot allow commercial interests to always take precedence over environmental interests. i was also disappointed to hear at the last g7 that our leaders were not ambitious enough in demanding that japan honour its international obligations to protect wildlife and, indeed, asked for the agreements to be accelerated. i hope, i mean, that there is still some ground to be found for discussion on this. we therefore call on the commission and the council to do everything possible to ensure that japan stops this nonsense. and i remember today is international oceans day.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said, a year ago we were here talking about the same things, making the same statements, discussing this absurd whaling, and it is strange that in 2016 we are still talking about whaling. this time japan has surprised us even more because it presents us with a plan that goes even beyond 12 years and includes the capture of 4 000 whales. the international court of justice has already said that this is not scientific research, that the apology made by japan makes no sense. but there was no need for the international court of justice, you just ask any scientist who works on whales to know how many alternative methods we have, and none of them involve killing so many whales, in fact not even one. we're talking about a species that has very complex behaviors, we're talking about a species that has high, high social affinity, and we're talking about a species that is declared intelligent, a species that has high sensitivity. and yet we are here again talking about it and we have not and we are not finding the tools to be able to put a stop to this. we are asking ourselves what the european union can do and we have not really had any answers because the answers probably do not exist. let's try another way. in japan, the japanese whale research institute tells us that in 2014, out of 1,200 tons of imported whales, 900 were not sold and remained in the refrigerators. japanese culture is changing, japanese consumption is changing. in 2015, the average japanese person ate 30 grams of whale meat. it means that very few people eat it and it's a tradition that is disappearing, but japan continues with its tradition, it doesn't want to hear the voice of the international community. we are now asking the european union to speak up. it is the only thing it can do, because we have no other means, and we are trying to go and strike, if not the politics, if not the institutions, the japanese consumers. we must have their support too to stop this senseless slaughter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard my colleagues say - and it is very important that this is a view from different and even very distant political families - our intentions are positive. pending a formal proposal from the commission, we have tried to work around this regulation not to replace the existing legislation but to supplement it, to fill in the gaps, and above all to give greater certainty to those who then use these instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are two things on which we must concentrate our efforts, and it is no accident that they have been mentioned here several times. first, legal certainty is essential: have rules that are easy to interpret and effective in their implementation. on the other side is transparency. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the people who are most in difficulty look to institutions with the spirit of those who need the intervention of institutions and with the doubt of those who believe that part of the difficulties in their lives stem from the uncertainty or the incapacity of institutions. so this is a very useful job, which we would like to do together. we can, as things stand, supplement the rules that are available. but you must help us quickly to complete the work we are doing. if we can have legal certainty on the one hand and transparency in the conduct of the institutions on the other, we will defeat all those who think that europe is an institutional and essentially useless place.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, if the union is to play a leading role on the international scene, it must promote its competitiveness through strategic sectors such as industry and energy. to achieve this, the union must have a genuine economic diplomacy with three main objectives. the first: i am thinking of latin america, africa and the far east, and of consolidating in the traditional markets. secondly: promoting initiatives to internationalise enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, through missions of economic operators to developing countries, business forums or b to b meetings; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the relocation of our companies. objective three: attract productive investment and tourist flows to europe, which will help to promote the growth of our continent. the european commission has already developed effective instruments to support this dimension. i am thinking of the growth missions, which have already been carried out in some 30 regions or countries and which have proved very useful in extending the activities of our companies beyond the borders of the union. but improving and strengthening these initiatives is critical to tackling economic challenges and seizing opportunities globally. the external action service needs desks at its headquarters to support small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to go international. our diplomacy, unfortunately, has not been sufficiently renewed and has not developed that economic reflex which would make it much more effective and useful for growth. i hope that we can have new missions for growth. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the views expressed by the honourable member.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the dimension of economic diplomacy is an integral part of the nature of our continent. our continent is made to stand up for itself, and the economic sphere has always been the sphere through which europe has told the world about a strong, solid, sustainable development model, based on the great creativity of our entrepreneurs and our citizens in general and, on the other hand, on the great awareness that to build economic development requires respect for the person. so creativity and the ability to build a social model that is also up to the task, which is why europe is a great place to start and a great place to work. but to do economic diplomacy, you have to know each other well, know what you're good at, know each other and defend each other to put yourself forward. we're the best in manufacturing and we don't have a lot of raw materials. so, a first strategy in building a true economic diplomacy is to match our productive capacity with the strength of countries that have raw materials and go hand in hand with them. for example, the great challenge of the mediterranean is a challenge in which our economic diplomacy can play an exceptional role. so great relations and great capacity to propose, to defend by proposing, and in this game to build a leading class of economic diplomats who give a hand to our entrepreneurs who have historically represented us in the world.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am here today on behalf of my dear colleague commissioner bieńkowska to talk about one of the industries that best represents the pioneering spirit of the europeans: the railway sector, and in particular the manufacturers of trains. the improvement of eu industrial competitiveness is a major objective of our policy. this applies in particular to the rail supply industry, where the european union is a world leader. let me address your specific questions. firstly, on the shift 2 rail (s2r) joint technology initiative, the set-up of the shift 2 rail joint undertaking has been rather fast compared to previous joint undertakings. it launched its first call for proposals in december 2015. fifty-six project proposals were received. the grants for the selected projects will be signed this autumn at the latest. the commission is particularly attentive to sme participation. we are satisfied that one quarter of the more than 450 applicants to the first call for proposals are smes. the commission will ensure the internal coordination of the different eu funding instruments. we will investigate in particular the possible use of european structural and investment funds and the european fund for strategic investments for future shift 2 rail deployment activities. secondly, on smes, the areas identified as most important in the consultation on the small business act in 2014 are in fact covered by the commission’s main initiatives. for this reason, rather than presenting a separate sme policy initiative, we concentrate on ensuring that the sme policy is mainstreamed in all relevant commission policies, notably the better regulation agenda, the capital market union, the trade for all strategy and the single market strategy. several actions have been taken by the commission in the priority initiatives mentioned above: the start-up initiative, reduction of administrative burden, access to finance and access to the markets. through the european semester the commission pushes for structural reforms in member states to improve the business environment. last but not least, the commission promotes entrepreneurship through the cosme programme and through the european structural and investment funds. thirdly, on rail equipment, the efficient and quick implementation of the fourth railway package will be of great value for the rail industry. the package will help european rail manufacturers thrive globally by improving the authorisation process in the eu and by removing the remaining barriers that hamper market access. these will help bring new investments and innovation into the sector and thus contribute to its competitiveness. the ambitious public-private partnership shift 2 rail will be the suitable instrument to provide the rail sector with better attractiveness and competitiveness. among others, shift 2 rail will contribute to: cutting the life-cycle cost of railway transport by as much as 50%; doubling railway capacity; increasing reliability and punctuality by as much as 50%. fourthly, on the international dimension of the industry, china has become an exporter of railway equipment in particular to the developing world. the commission is in continuous dialogue with the chinese authorities. we are requesting the inclusion of state-owned enterprises operating in the utilities sector in china’s offer in the context of the wto negotiations. the accession of china to the agreement on government procurement will be an important step to ensure the application of transparent and non-discriminatory rules in procurement procedures. china is reluctant to include important state-owned enterprises, as it claims that its internal reform has first to be accomplished. progress in the area of rail procurement is one of the commission’s key priorities in the free trade agreement negotiations with japan. public procurement discussions with the united states continue without clear progress. strategic partnership and alliances to improve competitiveness, as promoted in the question, are not as such prohibited under eu competition law. the commission has published extensive guidance documents for companies to set up cooperation agreements that are in full compliance with competition rules. fifthly, on industrial policy – the connecting europe facility, maintaining the technological advanced position of europe is key to retaining its huge competitive position, production and jobs in europe. in addition to the already mentioned programmes, through the trans-european networks (transport) and the connecting europe facility funding mechanisms we inject eur 24 billion in eu transport infrastructure. the vast majority of connecting europe facility funding will be for major cross-border projects and projects addressing main bottlenecks on the 9 ten-t multimodal core network corridors. it will also be a key funding instrument to help deploy the european railway traffic management system throughout europe. 75% of the connecting europe facility funding goes to rail projects. we want the european rail supply industry to remain an important contributor to eu employment and the economy. european companies have the know-how and the competitiveness capabilities to remain leaders in the world market. on our side we will continue to provide the framework conditions to preserve and improve their competitive position.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. i will tell you very frankly, mr commissioner, that beyond the individual answers, all of them valid, what we are asking for and what is missing - but the interlocutor would be another commissioner or a vice-president - is an industrial strategy, a mobility strategy, a strategy of environmental sustainability which, around the whole manufacturing of the railway sector, assumes what europe has in mind and what it wants to do. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european railway system. so when i say strategy, i mean action that brings all these together, because the sector is the sector of mechanics, electromechanics, there's a lot of engineering, there's telecommunications, there's all the possible digital applications. there is a whole aspect of linking up with smes, as well as with large enterprises. and if this is not a strategic sector, i wonder which others we should like to revive for european industry. but we have the impression that the commission is not clear about this objective of reviving european industry. i will mention only two important aspects: the 'shitf to rail' programme, which i and other members of parliament promoted in the last parliament but which is going too slowly, and the investments, the esfi, which you mentioned.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a crucial sector of our industry which employs many european citizens. the european rail industry represents 46% of the world market and we cannot risk losing this market and hundreds of jobs because of unfair competition. the sector, through technological innovation and digitalisation, must become a driving force for job creation. but to make this happen we need to have clear priorities at the level of european industrial policy and we must first work well within ourselves, where the rules must be respected and there is clearly a need for greater transparency and ex ante information exchange in public procurement. if the number one danger in this sector, as in many others, is china, we cannot allow the construction of the budapest-belgrade high-speed railway to be built by china without transparency. of course, in this area too, the possible recognition of the sme to china would have a very heavy impact. we have the technology and we have the know-how. we must demand and obtain respect for the principle of reciprocity and symmetrical access to third markets. in the coming years, railway infrastructure will be strengthened in the americas, africa and asia. the european commission must devise a strong and coordinated industrial policy that will enable european companies to play a leading role in these markets. the rapporteur, mrs werner, has done a very good job. the european parliament has brought attention to a crucial sector of european manufacturing industry, but now we need to act, we need coordinated political decisions and concrete action by the european commission in a short time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have learned that the railway supply industry is strategic because it is the sum of important skills. so the question is how to defend it, and for that i congratulate the rapporteurs on this important dossier. the first is that the railway industry defends itself if there is railway investment. the cef is better than the efsi in this respect, because the cef supports long-term investment better than the efsi, for which the leverage is too tight. so they don't take money out of the cef. secondly, as far as companies are concerned, the market must win. the market is not a strange, hyper-liberal thing at all costs. the market is a nice thing, where the state sets minimum standards and companies abide by them. anyone who doesn't meet those standards is out of the market. china is out of the market. let us not go down in history with this commission for having forgotten our industries, but let us defend them as we know how.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when we talk about cambodia, we are talking about the third resolution in less than a year. we made one in july last year, speaking precisely of the repression of non-governmental organizations, we made another one in november, speaking precisely of how this country was totally sold out to multinationals, and today again to reiterate that the hun sen government is a government that brutally represses not only freedom of expression, not only freedom of association, but also any form of defence of human rights. now, assuming that we are cambodia's main partner, we give it 410 million euros in the period 2014-2020, perhaps it would be time to review our development aid, since it is not possible to channel it through democratic instruments, especially in view of the upcoming elections in 2017. if we have tools, we try to use them, otherwise we find ourselves talking about the same things every six months.
i am fully in favour of this resolution on behalf of our group, and i will continue to refer to the authors who have sufficiently justified the need for this resolution. the situation is all the more urgent now that the trial of the main leader, sam rainsy, is due to take place in cambodia in july this year in a mock trial, in his absence. so it is perhaps appropriate at this point in time to demand that the cambodian government led by hun sen drop this political attack on the opposition leader. colleagues here have described in detail how the rights of opposition leaders, political activists, civil rights activists and journalists are more or less suppressed in cambodia, it is not worth repeating. future elections need to be watched, but it also needs to be made clear that when cambodia is supposed to get 400 million euros and if it behaves like this towards democracy and opposition leaders , the commission should reconsider whether it should spend more money on migration than it gives to cambodia.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. these charges are politically motivated and represent an alarming crackdown on civil society and those working to defend human rights in the country, making it clear that the government's ultimate goal is to silence dissent ahead of the upcoming elections. this is a misuse of the criminal justice system that intends and uses state institutions as tools to intimidate, criminalize and punish the legitimate activities of human rights defenders and civil society. the commissioner has a very simple task to perform. we must change our relationship with cambodia and make it conditional on the human rights issues being actually addressed.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had the opportunity to see for myself what was going on in tajikistan, having participated in the electoral mission last year. it is clear that we are talking about a country which has a rather marked totalitarian tendency, where there is repression of political opposition parties, where there is no possibility of association and criticism and where the media is also quite clearly controlled. furthermore, we must specify that we have a partnership agreement with tajikistan since 2009 which set itself the objectives of achieving certain results. the years have passed, the goals have been achieved practically for nothing. in fact, with the constitutional referendum held a few days ago, on 22 may, president rahmon has in fact done nothing but eliminate the term limits and lower the threshold, practically paving the way for a presidential election of his son. i think we must intervene, especially with regard to prisoners of conscience, and raise our voices a little, given that we have privileged trade relations with this country.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the european parliament denounced the unfair scenario in which the elections for the renewal of the tajik parliament had taken place. in may this year, a referendum amended the constitution, removing the term limits and allowing president rahmon, who has been in office since 1992, to run for the presidency again. today, it is not only the difficult political environment that is attracting criticism, but also the recent serious court cases. in this resolution the european parliament calls for the restoration of conditions of legality and freedom. we are, for our part, returning to the subject of trade agreements, which must include clear conditions, freedom of expression and protection for human rights defenders. that is the task we have today in dealing with this country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am of course in favour of all the comments made by the members. we must support tajikistan on its way to democracy, even if that is not always easy for a country which has a thousand kilometres of border with afghanistan and which receives so much from afghanistan. but i would like to raise a rather procedural question here: when i read this resolution, i do not see anything urgent in it. all the cases that are being brought up are months old, some years old. i have been a member of the central asian delegation for seven years, i am the president of the tajikistan friendship group in the house, i have met the president myself, and yet there was no way i could have contributed to the drafting of this resolution. i think we should think about this in the house: what is really urgent and where should the relevant delegations be involved so that a better resolution can be produced and people and colleagues who really know the country can be involved? i would advise against it. i think that if the delegations are to have any meaning here, they must also be involved in such cases.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tajikistan is unfortunately in one of those situations which we find quite frequent in the former soviet republics. there is a major confrontation, almost a civil war, between the current ruling communist party and the islamists. unfortunately, in this dangerous combination of authoritarianism, poverty, threats to internal security and threats from afghanistan, the stability of the country is seriously compromised. in particular, the current government of emomali rahmon has been marked by a very large persecution of opponents, a persecution in particular also of human rights lawyers. i am addressing them as a jurist, as someone who has been trained in the field of law. we cannot allow that, in addition to the unjust persecution of the islamic renaissance party, which has been sentenced to life imprisonment, and which still condemns all forms of support for democracy, there should also be the persecution of those who legitimately defend the rights to a fair trial and the right to a defence. i would like to say to all of you, ladies and gentlemen: we must ask for more in the framework of the partnership agreement that already exists with tajikistan. the human rights clauses must cease to be rivers of ink and must become a reality.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are currently witnessing what is clearly a very challenging period for human rights in tajikistan. while there have been some positive developments during the past year – for instance, we welcome the activities of the human rights ombudsman – we continue to have very serious concerns with regard to a number of issues. our most prominent concerns are about political participation and political prisoners. on 29 september 2015, the islamic renaissance party of tajikistan (irpt) was outlawed as a terrorist organisation and its leadership arrested. at the time, the european union issued a statement calling for restraint. we also reminded the tajik government of the importance of upholding fundamental rights, including the right to a fair trial, even in the pursuit of security operations. last week, the tajik supreme court issued harsh prison sentences for the 13 leaders of the irpt arrested, in two cases life imprisonment unfortunately. again, we made a critical public statement saying that the court proceedings were not transparent and violated the rights of the accused to a fair trial, which is not in line with tajikistan’s commitments under international law. we also reminded the tajik government that clear evidence must be presented justifying the criminal charges brought against the defendants in connection with all the sentences issued. an open and inclusive law-making process is most likely to prevent radicalisation and political extremism. we stressed these points in several high-level meetings recently: when president rahmon visited brussels in december 2015; in astana at a ministerial meeting also in late 2015; and on numerous occasions – most recently, today on the occasion of the eu-tajikistan human rights dialogue held in dushanbe. in my view, the actions of the tajik government clearly have the potential to damage the overall legitimacy of the tajik political system. this is emphatically not in our interests. our policy seeks political stability and economic prosperity. as the european union, we remain a key provider of development cooperation assistance to both tajikistan and to central asia, and we will continue to put human rights and the rights of prisoners of conscience firmly on our agenda. the european union stands ready to work together with tajikistan in addressing these important issues.
in writing. on 17 september 2009, the european parliament delivered a favourable opinion on the conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of tajikistan. the agreement obviously makes respect for democratic principles and human rights a precondition. the situation in tajikistan is unfortunately still dramatic. freedom of the press is virtually non-existent, considering the climate of restriction and censorship created by the government to counter independent information. the use of torture and the continued detention of political opponents unfortunately continues to be the order of the day, despite the efforts made by the government in august 2013 to enforce the agreed anti-torture plans. in view of these considerations, i believe it is of paramount importance that the eu acts to put an end to the continuing violations of human rights.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in november last year, that is to say about six months ago, we met to discuss vietnam before the free trade agreement was approved. the house had repeatedly expressed its concern about the human rights situation, not least because the human rights situation had not improved at all three years earlier, in 2012, with the partnership and cooperation agreement. it is now six months since the fta was approved and the human rights situation in vietnam continues to systematically deteriorate: the killing of bloggers, the government's arrests of opposition figures and the continuing violent repression. i think we really should learn to sometimes put the human rights issue on the same level as economic interests because, to do a favour to our multinationals who go to exploit resources in vietnam, we are still being uncredible on the human rights front.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vietnamese regime has decided to respond with violence to legitimate voices of protest against the institutional failure to respond to the ecological disaster that has severely damaged the fish stocks in the coastal provinces. even the recent visit of us president obama did not stop the crackdown and six other activists were arrested. this is just the latest example of a widespread campaign of intimidation against political opponents and defenders of fundamental freedoms. there are at least 80 journalists and activists currently in prison, guilty only of peacefully expressing their dissent. in the country, which ranks last in the world for press freedom, the government maintains tight control over the media and has recently introduced new laws that further tighten censorship. we therefore call on the vietnamese authorities to put an end to the systematic violation of freedom of expression and to any persecution of activists.
mr president, i am prepared to support the motion for a resolution, even though i am from the czech republic, where there is a very significant and large community of vietnamese citizens who form, i would say, a very strong bond between the czech republic and vietnam. however, i am convinced that the trade relationship that exists here, which is very important, cannot in itself be a reason for not criticising the human rights situation in vietnam. i think the proposal is balanced, there are both critical points concerning, for example, the vague provisions of the criminal code, which are then abused to suppress civil and political activists, and points where we praise vietnam, for example, for its approach to sexual minorities. that is why i support this resolution and i think it can be a good contribution to future cooperation and dialogue with vietnam on human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is still great concern about human rights violations in vietnam. twenty-four independent organizations, some of them international, have issued a report drawing attention to human rights violations in vietnam. the document includes abuses of freedom of religion and belief. in vietnam, independent political parties, trade unions and human rights organisations are banned and public meetings require official permission. the ban on free demonstrations and the arrests of some political activists are a cause for concern. the commission must demand that the commitments it has made in the agreement be respected and must also take unilateral measures if vietnam continues to violate fundamental freedoms. we must make sure that our relations with vietnam, although intense, are subordinated to the improvement of human rights in that country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the eu-vietnam partnership agreement was signed in 2015, we all hoped that it would be the dawn of a new day, the dawn of greater respect for human rights. that's not what happened. unfortunately, vietnam, despite having signed important agreements such as the international covenant on civil and political rights or the un convention against torture, never takes these commitments seriously and does not actually implement the legal reforms that would be essential to make them operational. instead, we see an increase in the repression of freedom of movement, an increase in the death penalty, stringent restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, and many prisoners of conscience, independent activists who are daily attacked, intimidated, confined to their homes and tortured, prisoners who are held in abominable and unacceptable conditions inside prisons. we cannot allow people like nguyen van dai or lê thu ha to be persecuted for defending human rights as if they were propaganda against the state. a state which denies human rights is not a state which can defend itself by crushing the people who support them. if we do not enforce those clauses for the geopolitical and economic interests of the treaties we sign then we are more hypocritical than we would like our citizens to believe.
i would like to remember the four israelis who were killed yesterday in a vile bombing. we are not interested in the nationality of those who killed them, we are only interested in seeing innocent blood on the ground once again. so it is right that parliament should remember the four israelis killed yesterday and rally around their families.
madam president, i also supported this motion. i am generally sceptical about the adoption of new and new european legislation, but if we make life easier for the citizens of the european union through legislation, and in this case, for example, by removing administrative barriers and obstacles , then i am convinced that such european legislation makes sense. that is why i voted for the document and why i say publicly that such legislation is good and i am happy to support it. these proposals will lead to better mutual recognition of authentic instruments, establish clear uniform criteria for certain authentic instruments, and establish uniform forms. it is perhaps a pity that the project is not as ambitious and that there has not been, for example, mutual recognition of diplomas, vocational training certificates and disability certificates. still, like i said, it's a step in the right direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report on simplifying the presentation of public documents because the mobility of citizens of the union is a reality today which we must defend at all levels. some 12 million europeans study, work or live in a member state of which they are not nationals. citizens and businesses in the union already exercise their right to free movement or the freedoms of the internal market is the greatest success of a united europe but unfortunately they can still encounter administrative complications when they have to submit public documents to the authorities of another member state. we are talking, for example, about making life easier for students who deal with different administrative systems, for tourists who need the health system when they are travelling, and for european citizens who do not know but are subject to different tax systems. the free movement of citizens and businesses does not stop with the abolition of visas or border controls. it is the administrative practices that have an impact on daily life and this is what needs to be simplified.
in writing. ‒ the acceptance of certain public documents between member states can facilitate the free movement of citizens and businesses. the contents of the documents are not affected, leaving national family law rules intact. the text is a good starting point for reducing red tape for citizens and administrations. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ one of the pillars of the integration process is freedom of movement within the territory of the union, a principle which is a reality confirmed by the existence of more than 12 million citizens who study, work and live in a member state other than the one of which they are nationals. to further facilitate cross-border mobility, a proposal for a new regulation has been submitted which simplifies the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents such as criminal records, civil status documents and residence documents. the delvaux report, which i supported, endorses the council proposal which, in addition to providing for exemption from certain administrative formalities, also introduces multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned. the lack of inclusion of diplomas and other types of business-related documents is a negative factor that will have to be addressed in the future.
in writing. ‒ by my vote i meant to support the request to reject this measure.
in writing. ‒ today's vote is a step towards the implementation of new legislation to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by facilitating the recognition and acceptance of certain public documents within the union. in addition to being one of the union's major objectives, intra-eu mobility is a reality that is affecting an increasing number of citizens and businesses, and therefore requires reducing the bureaucratic difficulties and administrative burdens that they often face. the text approved today makes it easier to recognise certain documents, such as those relating to marital status, residence and criminal records. the simplification and reduction of administrative formalities, however, require that they be extended further and that they be extended to other types of documents, such as diplomas, other qualifications and certificates of disability. the commission must therefore submit a new proposal for the acceptance and recognition of public documents which fall outside the scope of this legislation.
in writing. ‒ free movement within the eu is one of the fundamental principles underpinning the process of european integration and one of the pillars of citizenship of the union, introduced by the maastricht treaty in 1992. in this context, the new regulation on simplification of the requirements for the presentation of certain public documents (such as civil status documents, residence certificates, citizenship and criminal records) is an important step forward in relation to the simplification of the acceptance of these types of documents by the competent public authorities of other member states. the draft regulation will further encourage mobility within the union, simplifying the lives of european citizens and reducing the monetary and non-monetary costs of such bureaucratic practices. despite the many positive points in the proposal, which i wholeheartedly support, there is a certain regret that other types of documents such as diplomas, training certificates and disability certificates are not included in the draft legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation in question because it represents an important step towards eliminating the bureaucratic burden of submitting public documents to the authorities of another member state. the mobility of union citizens is constantly increasing. at present, some 12 million europeans are studying, working or living in a member state of which they are not nationals. the elimination of legalisation and the postillation mark from cross-border public documents, the acceptance of certified true copies and certified translations, and the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned are all major innovations. once national administrations have acquired the new way of working, the scope of administrative simplifications will have to be extended even further. in order to facilitate the labour market, diplomas and training certificates and all documents relevant to businesses will have to be included among the documents eligible for simplification. the proposed multilingual standard forms should also be given autonomy so that the national documents in question do not have to be attached to them, and special attention should be paid to certificates of disability.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ some 12 million european citizens study, work or live in a member state of the union other than their own. despite the fact that freedom of movement and all the economic freedoms inherent in the internal market are firmly entrenched, european citizens in another european country are faced with daily administrative complications when they have to present public documents to national authorities. the proposed regulation will considerably reduce bureaucratic difficulties in view of this need. civil status documents and certain other documents, such as residence, nationality and criminal records, will be exempt from legalisation and apostille, the administrative formalities traditionally required for public documents when they have to be presented in another member state. facilitated acceptance arrangements are also provided for certified copies and certified translations. the adoption of multilingual standard forms, which is planned for most public documents, will simplify the administrative procedure and facilitate citizens and businesses operating in a european country other than their own. the regulation is another building block for the construction of the single market, for greater cooperation between member states and strengthens the free movement which is a fundamental value of european integration. i therefore thought i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the mobility of eu citizens is a subject that is very close to my heart. in 2016, more than 10 million people are studying or working abroad, and that, from my point of view, is very encouraging. these figures are very significant, because they show that we are moving towards a european union which allows young people to acquire different academic and vocational skills. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim of this project is to create multilingual standard forms for as many public documents as possible, in order to facilitate the bureaucratic process of the mobile european citizen. for these reasons, which i consider to be of fundamental importance, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's resolution on the free movement of public documents in the european union will ease the administrative burden for citizens moving to another member state. i voted in favour of the resolution because my vote is intended to support the bureaucratization of administrative procedures, for example, for the recognition of the authenticity of certificates such as birth, marriage or criminal records. this legislation will simplify the lives of citizens and at the same time reduce any costs arising from administrative procedures, for example for official translations. it is now up to national and local authorities to implement these new rules.
in writing. ‒ simplification of the rules governing the circulation of documents should be encouraged, as it helps to reduce the suffocating bureaucracy that harms citizens, administrations and businesses. while welcoming the steps taken in this direction, i regret that diplomas, training certificates, disability certificates and certain documents relating to business have not been included in the list of documents acceptable for acceptance within the european union. we hope that in the future the scope of the regulation may be extended to other documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted to adopt this regulation on promoting the free movement of citizens as i think that the free movement of people is a hugely important aspect of the european project and i support this effort to address several complications and issues that plague it. i support the report in stating that we should make sure that we use a harmonised and simplified method of acceptance of public documents within the eu in order to promote and protect the free movement of people and business. another positive aspect of these rules is that it reduces unnecessary, costly and burdensome bureaucracy.
in writing. the aim of this legislation is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by seeking to simplify the admission of certain eu public documents. specifically, it aims to maintain the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. the free movement and freedom of the internal market of citizens and businesses in the union is a very important element, although in certain circumstances it may encounter administrative complications, as in the case of the presentation of public documents to the authorities of another member state. the basis of this regulation is therefore the creation of multilingual standard forms for public documents, in order to simplify procedures which sometimes cause considerable delays. an important point concerns the translation of the public document, so that the citizen does not have to provide a translation of the administrative document, thus greatly facilitating the bureaucratic process for the european citizen moving between the different member states. it is a practical rule, and i strongly support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the presentation of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012. the aim of the regulation is to facilitate the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of documents relating to civil status and other documents such as residence, nationality and criminal records, by exempting them from legalisation and the postille, without taking account of the content of public documents, which remains the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. this will make it easier for european citizens, who are increasingly moving to another member state to study or work, to exercise their right to free movement.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with the colleague's proposal as a whole and welcome the advantages of simplified acceptance of documents required of european citizens on the move, i think it is appropriate to express my disapproval of the amendment under discussion.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this proposal for a regulation which facilitates the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. more could have been done if the member states had not shown themselves so jealous of their powers, but considerable progress has been made. for civil status documents and for those documents relating to residence, nationality and criminal records, legalisation and the postille will no longer be necessary. simplified procedures are also provided for certified copies and certified translations. the receiving administration will now be able to ask the issuing administration directly, by electronic means, to confirm the authenticity of the document. the creation of multilingual standard forms to be issued by national authorities, attached to public documents to be submitted abroad, is also very positive. this will greatly simplify the bureaucratic process for millions of students and workers who study, work and live in a member state of which they are not nationals. businesses will also face fewer administrative complications within the single market. i would have preferred to have included diplomas and certificates of training, disability and other qualifications. i hope that the revision clauses will allow the scope of simplification to be extended in the future.
in writing. ‒ in line with the majority in the house, i voted against amendment no 1 to the legislative resolution tabled by mr delvaux. the rejection of amendment no 1 has confirmed the council's position on the subject. in this case, the council's position is to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. i would like to remind you that one of the pillars on which this union is based is the free movement of persons. that is why i support the council's position.
in writing. ‒ some 12 million people live, study or work in a member state other than their own. unfortunately, the mobility of european citizens often comes up against administrative complications when submitting public documents to the authorities of another country. the new regulation will simplify the procedures for proving the authenticity of certain certificates, such as those relating to residence, nationality, marital status and the absence of criminal offences: the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states on the implementation of the new rules. convinced of the importance of facilitating the bureaucratic process for the free movement of persons within the european union, i voted in favour of the agreement reached at second reading.
in writing. ‒ it has been found that the exchange of public documents between administrations of different member states slows down and complicates the free movement of persons across the eu's borders, due to the costs and red tape encountered by citizens. it is therefore necessary to respond quickly and effectively, insisting on reducing bureaucratic difficulties and simplifying procedures, welcoming the creation of pre-translated standard forms available in the different languages of the union, in order to avoid translation costs for individuals and reduce the time required for exchanging documents, thus facilitating free movement within the eu.
in writing. ‒ the civil service tribunal, established by decision 2004\752\ec, has jurisdiction at first instance in disputes between the eu and its civil servants concerning employment and social security matters. the italian presidency has initiated a reform of the court of justice. the main points were: increase in the number of judges and consequent abolition of the general court. the increase in the number of general judges is therefore matched by the decline in the number of specialised courts. i have therefore decided to vote against the reform not only because i consider it a waste of money but also because i do not believe that it will in any way benefit the citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the delvaux report on the transfer to the court of justice of the power to decide at first instance on eu civil service matters. this is a text of a predominantly technical nature which leads to the dissolution of the civil service tribunal and a consequent increase in the number of judges of the court of first instance from 40 to 47. the text, which also introduces certain collateral amendments and transitional provisions, re-allocates the powers of the dissolved civil service tribunal to the general court. this is a functional proposal which responds to the request to increase the total number of judges to 56 in order to guarantee a number of two judges per member state. the present reform does not provide for any change in the rules of procedure of the court of first instance and its internal organisation, which will, however, be discussed at a later stage.
in writing. ‒ the whole process of reform that the court of justice has undergone in recent years has never fully convinced me. the measure under voting, while partially acceptable, still contains some passages which leave me puzzled and have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the number of judges of the general court to 56 is consistent with the decision to allow each member state of the union to appoint two judges each. this increase was correctly made conditional on the dissolution of the civil service tribunal and the transfer of civil litigation back to the civil service tribunal. the proposal contains minor amendments, improvements to the functioning of the existing institutions, consistent with what parliament has already approved in earlier stages of the reform of the court of justice currently under way.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the amendments to the statute of the court of justice of the european union. they do not merely represent an internal reorganisation of the court of justice of the european union, but constitute a genuine reform of the institutional architecture of the latter, which will lose its current 'tripartite' structure with the inclusion of the civil service tribunal in the court of justice of the european union. the european parliament has paid particular attention to the issue of gender balance, which it considers to be of fundamental importance, with regard to the future appointments of judges to the court of justice of the european union. at the end of the reform process, the court of first instance should in fact be composed of two judges per member state. i therefore call on the governments of the member states to ensure gender equality in the process of appointing candidates for judges at the court of justice of the european union. however, several aspects of the new structure remain to be clarified, for example as regards the establishment, composition and functions of any specialised sections within the court of justice of the european union. the definition of these aspects, as well as the practical arrangements for the functioning of the court in its composition, will require a further revision of the rules of procedure of the court of justice of the european union, as well as of those of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ the request to abolish the special tribunal for the civil service of the european union is a consequence of the reform of the court of justice, which provides for the increase in the number of judges from 28 to 40 and then to 56 (with 2 appointments per member state). apart from doubts about the usefulness of increasing the number of judges (which also involves a significant expenditure of public money), i find it negative that a court composed of highly qualified judges specialised in a specific subject is being abolished, which would then be dealt with in the future by judges necessarily less experienced. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the regulation under discussion today completes the reform process of the court of justice by providing for the absorption of the civil service tribunal as a consequential measure of the increase in the number of judges of the court from 40 to 47, all with a view to increasing the number of judges to 56 in the coming years, so as to guarantee each member state the appointment of two judges. the reform, which is not particularly critical, is to be appreciated for its spirit of rationalization. the transitional measures proposed to regulate the modalities of transfer to the general court of cases pending before the civil service tribunal in the state in which they are located on 31 august 2016 are also welcome in the interest of legal certainty. the need to restructure the institutional architecture of the union, and in this case its bodies for the interpretation and implementation of law, is a positive sign of the growth and consolidation of the union itself as a dynamic and flexible legal system to the needs of citizens and the institutions that govern them. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal as it is simply the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the third regulation increased the number of judges at the court of first instance from 28 to 56, so that each member state could appoint two judges each. the proposal, given the increase in the number of judges, is aimed at dissolving the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges. i also agree with the rapporteur that the european parliament and the council should be allowed to dissolve the specialised courts they have set up, should the need arise.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is intended to implement the decision to transfer the seven judges of the civil service tribunal to the general court of the european union, adopted pursuant to the abovementioned regulation, and also to transfer the jurisdiction of the civil service tribunal to the general court. i voted in favour of the proposal from the court of justice, which merely repeals the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal and introduces collateral amendments and transitional provisions.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of the civil service tribunal is, as is well known, the direct consequence of the reform of the court of justice which provides for the doubling of the number of judges of the court of first instance. our position on the reform is strongly negative because the benefits to the european citizens of this multiplication of seats are all to be demonstrated. we fear that this reform, far from solving the critical problems in the administration of justice within the european union, may generate new waste without increasing the efficiency of the court. we also share the doubts raised by distinguished jurists as to the conformity of the reform in question with the treaty. for all these reasons we cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the whole reform of the court of justice has never fully convinced us.
in writing. this technical report analyses the proposal to repeal the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal and to introduce certain amendments linked to the repeal of the second regulation on the reform of the court of justice. it calls for the number of judges in the court of first instance to be increased so that each member state can appoint two judges each. the report also proposes other technical provisions to overcome certain problems which have been highlighted in practice. i therefore vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transfer to the court of justice of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance in disputes between the union and its servants. this regulation is the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice and is limited to repealing the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal and to introducing a number of collateral amendments and transitional provisions which include the repeal of the second regulation on the reform of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ in line with the discussion on several occasions about a change in the composition of the court of justice, in the sense of an increase in the number of judges from the current 28 to 56, and consequent dissolution of the civil service tribunal and transfer of civil service litigation back to the court of first instance, i would assess positively the amendments to the rules of procedure of the tribunal for a readaptation to the new european legal reality. i would therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which deals with the fourth stage of the reform process of the court of justice of the european union. the regulation abolishes the civil service tribunal and transfers jurisdiction to rule at first instance in disputes between the union and its servants to the court of justice of the european union. in the interests of legal certainty, the regulation which is the subject of this report lays down the procedure for the transfer of pending cases from the old to the new court with jurisdiction. the abolition of the civil service tribunal was already a condition for the increase in the number of judges of the court of justice of the european union from 40 to 47, and this fourth stage is therefore the logical and necessary continuation of a process which has already begun and which i continue to support.
in writing. ‒ this is the fourth regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the third part of the reform, concerning an increase in the number of judges at the court of first instance, proved to be complex. the original plan was to reduce the number of judges from 28 to 40. at the end of the procedure, 56 judges were appointed, so that each member state could appoint two judges. this increase was conditional on the dissolution of the civil service tribunal and the transfer of civil litigation back to the civil service tribunal. this regulation therefore constitutes a follow-up to the third regulation on the reform of the court of justice. in parallel with the second stage of the increase in the number of judges of the general court from 40 to 47, the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges, should therefore be dissolved. i think that the court's proposal is logical. it merely repeals the provisions relating to the civil service tribunal and introduces certain collateral amendments and transitional provisions. these amendments naturally include the repeal of the second regulation on the reform of the court of justice. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a regulation for an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. this is an important text which renews the request made in 2013 to the commission to adopt a regulation on the subject. although it received almost unanimous support in parliament, it was not accepted by the commission, which ignored it for a long time. parliament therefore decided to adopt a new resolution, accompanied by a proposal for a regulation. the aim is to stimulate the development of legislation that is responsive to the challenges of the relationship between the union's administration and its citizens. people are not aware of their rights under the treaties, which is why it is necessary to define a set of clear and transparent rules that will strengthen the links between the eu and citizens, providing them not only with more guarantees but also with legal certainty in their dealings with the administration.
in writing. - i have always fought against the proliferation of the eurocracy. i feel that my vote supports this resolution and strongly calls for the introduction into existing legislation of a core set of principles for good administration in the european context. i believe it is essential that the european administration and its institutions move towards greater and clearer transparency in their work, in order to better protect the interests of our citizens.
in writing. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union guarantees the right of european citizens to good administration, through an open, efficient and independent administration. in a context of a gradual increase in the overall powers of the european institutions, the development of transparent and simple administration and bureaucratic practices should be encouraged and promoted. in this context, i call on the commission to examine carefully and promptly the proposal for a regulation tabled by colleagues heidi hautala and pavel svoboda on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, adopted in plenary on 9 june 2016, which is an interesting starting point that can improve the functioning of the bureaucratic practices and procedures of the european institutions, as well as guarantee the right of citizens to a fair, prompt and effective administration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution today to remind the commission that in its resolution of 15 january 2013 parliament called for the adoption of a regulation for an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. although the resolution was adopted by a large majority (572 votes in favour, 16 against, 12 abstentions), parliament's request was not followed up by any action by the commission. with the development of the european union's competences, citizens are increasingly confronted directly with the union's institutions, bodies and agencies, but too often they do not receive adequate answers. over the years, the european union has developed a large number of sectoral administrative procedures, in the form of binding and non-binding provisions, without necessarily taking into account the overall coherence of the system and the need for transparency, particularly towards european citizens. this complex set of different procedures results in gaps and inconsistencies between the procedures themselves. today's vote was essentially a call on the commission to propose, in the general interest, a regulation to make the union's administration more efficient and open. citizens have the right to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies.
in writing. ‒ the right to good administration is a fundamental right of the citizens of the union, enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the report touches on important issues ranging from procedural rights to the obligation to examine matters thoroughly and impartially, and sets out criteria for the management of conflicts of interest and for streamlining procedures. these are among the primary objectives of the movement, and if they are achieved, they will make it possible to put the institutions truly at the service of the citizens. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ the european union has considerably increased its powers over the years, and so european citizens are confronted with its institutions but do not always receive adequate protection of their procedural rights. this is because the union lacks a coherent and well-organised set of administrative laws. i believe that citizens need an efficient administration of the european union so that they are aware of their administrative rights under european law. in addition, appropriate structures and precise administrative procedures promote an open, independent and efficient administration. i am therefore convinced that we must seek this cohesion in such a way as to guarantee all citizens the same rights and the same treatment by the institutions of the european union. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fact that the union does not have a coherent and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law makes it difficult for citizens to understand their administrative rights under union law. i voted in favour of the proposal because the right to good administration requires that administrative acts be adopted by the union administration in accordance with administrative procedures which ensure impartiality, fairness and timeliness. the principle of legal certainty requires that union legislation be clear and precise, so that citizens are able to know their rights and obligations with certainty.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, the commission set up a working group on administrative law, with the aim of drawing up a proposal for a regulation on eu administrative procedure. the commission has not yet followed up on its promise, and it is therefore urgently needed to present a legislative proposal as soon as possible to regulate the administrative procedures of the union's institutions, to provide citizens with legal certainty and guarantees in their dealings with the eu institutions. today the european union has a cumbersome institutional mechanism, starting with the system of european funds, at the base of which is a complicated system of difficult access for citizens and entrepreneurs, who are faced with excessive bureaucratic mechanisms that limit activity. this has to change. good governance is not an option, but a right and a foundation for improving competitiveness. the institutions must be aware of the practical benefits of a more citizen-centred approach, based on the principles of transparency, efficiency and independence.
in writing. ‒ the organisation of the european institutions, especially in terms of ensuring effective action and management efficiency, is the subject of observation and evaluation by the governments of the member states as well as by citizens and public opinion, especially when the eu, in its various structures, calls on the states to carry out structural reforms and to improve the spending structures of national budgets. as early as 2013, the european parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union under article 225 tfeu. however, although the motion for a resolution was approved by an overwhelming majority in the house, parliament's request was not followed up by a commission proposal. the question we are asking is why the request to draw up a draft regulation which would provide greater clarity and consistency in the interpretation of existing rules, for the benefit of citizens and businesses as well as the administration and its officials, has not yet been acted upon.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to establish a set of rules that the union administration should respect in the performance of its administrative activities. these are aimed at ensuring a correct, efficient and independent administration, but also an adequate application of the right to good administration. the document adopted today applies to the administrative activities of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. while it does not apply to the activities of the eu administration in the course of legislative procedures, judicial proceedings, and proceedings leading to the adoption of non-legislative acts which are directly based on the treaties, delegated acts or implementing acts. for these reasons i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - on the motion, i intend to vote in favour. european citizens have the right to demand greater openness, transparency and efficiency from the european institutions, and the institutions have a duty to meet this demand. i would therefore vote in favour of the proposal, given the need for common rules.
in writing. ‒ with the development of the european union's competences, citizens are coming into contact more and more often, and in a more direct way, with the union's institutions. it is necessary that procedural rights and obligations are clearly defined and that the institutions ensure the highest level of transparency, efficiency and speed of execution, as provided for in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which recognises the right to good administration. i therefore support the 'proposal for a regulation on an open, efficient and independent european administration' presented by the juri committee, which brought together a group of experts in administrative law to draft the text. the adoption of this text would go a long way towards bringing the european institutions and citizens closer together. the resolution sends a strong political signal, as a similar proposal was already put forward in 2013 but was later dropped by the commission. in today's vote parliament is reaffirming its fundamental importance to the application of the principle of good administration, and the commission cannot fail to take note of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the juri committee on the regulation for an open, efficient and independent eu administration. i believe that european citizens have the right to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the union's institutions, bodies and agencies. that is why i voted in favour of the text presented in plenary.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution adopted today, the european parliament called on the commission to examine a new proposal for a regulation to ensure an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. i believe that citizens have a right to expect a high level of transparency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the european institutions. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an open, effective and independent european administration. the lack of a coherent and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law in the union makes it difficult for citizens to understand their rights. not only that: the increasing number of citizens facing internal movements within the member states must meet often obscure and difficult bureaucratic practices. this is why the european commission should draw up an action plan to make public administration more efficient and uniform at european level, while respecting the specific jurisdiction of the member states. the first step in this direction, as indicated by the motion for a resolution, could be the certified translation of the various documents relating to civil status.
in writing. ‒ the rail industry is a key sector in developing europe's innovative capacity and competitiveness. the introduction of measures and assistance for enterprises could not only promote economic growth but also help to develop new strategies for environmental protection and technological development. in this respect, encouraging the digitalisation of the sector, through the joint use of the funds earmarked for this purpose, and developing a new strategy for training and education could certainly be a good plan of action. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the railway industry is an important part of the continent's economy, employing more than 400 000 people and accounting for 46% of the world's railway industry. this is a capital-intensive sector with a high dependence on public procurement and very high safety standards. the motion for a resolution tabled today in parliament, which i support, stresses the need to take all appropriate measures to protect european know-how, jobs and world leadership in the sector, by means of measures to counter unfair forms of competition from third countries. the eu must support its competitiveness by providing the rail industry with political and strategic support from the eu institutions. investment in railway projects should be reinforced, including through the use of the efsi, with a focus on the maintenance and modernisation of existing railway equipment. the ultimate objective must be to create an industry that can meet the challenges of the future, while maintaining technological leadership and continuing to encourage the involvement of smes in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the competitiveness of the european rail industry is balanced and acceptable. it is essential for our smes operating in third countries to be able to obtain greater access to credit in order to ensure the necessary competitiveness on the market, and it is equally important for the eu to strengthen supervision of non-european investments made in the member states. for all these reasons i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ studies show that rail interoperability and safety is a central element of the sustainable development model for the europe of the future. to improve them, the european railway agency (era) was established by regulation (ec) no 881/2004 of 29 april 2004, with offices in lille and valenciennes (france). the agency shall promote the progressive harmonisation, registration and monitoring of technical specifications for interoperability (tsis) across the european rail system and the development of common safety objectives for european railways. although the era does not have autonomous decision-making powers, it contributes to drafting proposals for decisions for the european commission. regulation (ec) no 1335/2008 of 16 december 2008 has conferred new tasks on the era, which are related to the amendments to the directives on railway safety (2004/49/ec) and on the interoperability of the rail system (2008/57/ec). now, with the adoption of the fourth railway package, the era's powers of investigation and audit in its fields of competence will finally be strengthened. this will help to avoid having 28 different systems for the type approval of trains: the agency will act as a single point of contact for issuing authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border operations and safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in different eu states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution today to remind the commission that in its resolution of 15 january 2013 parliament called for the adoption of a regulation for an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. although the resolution was adopted by a large majority (572 votes in favour, 16 against, 12 abstentions), parliament's request was not followed up by any action by the commission. with the development of the european union's competences, citizens are increasingly confronted directly with the union's institutions, bodies and agencies, but too often they do not receive adequate answers. over the years, the european union has developed a large number of sectoral administrative procedures, in the form of binding and non-binding provisions, without necessarily taking into account the overall coherence of the system and the need for transparency, particularly towards european citizens. this complex set of different procedures results in gaps and inconsistencies between the procedures themselves. today's vote was essentially a call on the commission to propose, in the general interest, a regulation to make the union's administration more efficient and open. citizens have the right to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies.
in writing. ‒ the european rail industry employs 400 000 people in europe. while i am concerned about the slow pace of payments to smes in the european railway industry, i would point out that the report by my colleague martina werner asks the commission to monitor the proper implementation of the eu directive on late payment and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european rail industry provides more than two million jobs for eu citizens and accounts for almost half of the world market for the rail industry. i think that we should pay close attention to this area, which i believe is very important for europe. as it is difficult and costly for many companies to operate across national borders because of the fragmentation of the market, i am convinced that the creation of a single european railway area can be the solution to these problems. i also think it is appropriate to mobilise the european union's funding instruments and private research funds so that we can continue to invest in research and development. this will enable the best possible development of railway technologies and maintain the world leadership of the european railway industry. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the competitiveness of european industry should be boosted by the full, effective and uniform implementation of the regulation on the european rail network for competitive freight transport, which is beneficial for both passengers and industry. in addition, efforts should be made to remove the main non-tariff barriers to the european railway industry's access to foreign markets, including obstacles to investment, discrimination and lack of transparency in public procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ the railway industry is a strategic sector for the european industrial recovery. it employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and development and represents 46% of the world market for the railway industry. in the light of these data, i believe, in line with what was adopted in the resolution, that concrete measures and investments can be put in place to achieve the objectives of modal shift towards rail transport, both for passengers and for freight, as announced in the 2011 transport white paper. moreover, in view of the conditions which are essential for the competitiveness of the european railway industry, such as the capacity for innovation, the creation of clusters and investment in research and development, i believe that the commission should take account in the near future of the measures and initiatives developed by the european parliament, and in particular: the full and more efficient mobilisation of all european funding instruments, especially for the benefit of smes operating in the sector; the establishment of a european forum bringing together innovative enterprises, start-ups and spin-offs in the railway sector; targeted investment in innovation and digitalisation of rail services, including the integrated electronic ticketing system.
in writing. ‒ as many as 400 000 people are employed in the railway industry in europe, an industry that covers 46% of the needs of the entire world railway market. however, europe is in danger of losing market share due to the import of low-cost rail supplies from non-european countries such as china and the lack of a coherent trade policy. while the european union market is largely open to competitors from third countries, they do not give up barriers that discriminate against the european rail industry, operating unfair competition that puts jobs at risk. in this resolution we asked the commission to include provisions to improve market access in third countries in future trade agreements and in the revision of existing ones. it will also be appropriate to develop an industrial policy that promotes sustainable transport, supports innovation in the railway sector, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and allows for the training of specialised staff. i believe that these elements, contained in the resolution i supported, are essential if the european railway industry is to remain competitive on the world stage.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because it underlines the importance of the railway industry (iff) in the process of reindustrialising europe.
in writing. ‒ recognising the importance of the european rail industry for employment, innovation and r & d and the contribution it can make to boosting european competitiveness, i would support my group's line on the proposal under consideration.
in writing. ‒ the european rail supply industry (iff) is a world leader, with 46% of the global rail industry market. it employs 400 000 people and makes a significant contribution to investment in research and innovation. the railway sector as a whole employs over one million workers and 1.2 million in the industry. these figures clearly illustrate the importance of the iff for industrial growth, employment and innovation, also considering the objective of reindustrialising 20% of the european economy. competitors from third countries, in particular china, are expanding rapidly and aggressively, often with the political and financial support of their home countries. it is therefore important that europe should be able to guarantee a level playing field in world competition, in order to safeguard jobs and industrial know-how. to maintain the global dominance of the european iff, it will be essential to create a single european railway area, launch innovation programmes, encourage the formation of local clusters, make the best use of the structural and investment funds, support smes and boost demand for rail products. in order to make it future-proof, it will also be important to invest in the training of young workers in the sector. this report shares this approach and calls on the commission to do its part, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european iff (rail supply industry) comprises the production of locomotives, rolling stock and tracks, electrification, signalling and telecommunications equipment, as well as maintenance and spare parts services. it employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and development and accounts for 46% of the world market for the railway industry. the rail sector as a whole, including operators and infrastructure, accounts for over 1 million direct jobs and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the eu. the increase in imports of low-cost railway supplies (such as engines or signals) from non-eu countries such as china is undermining the conditions for the competitiveness of european suppliers. hence the need for a trade strategy which guarantees respect for the principle of reciprocity, particularly in relation to japan, china and the united states. i voted in favour of new legislation to allow the eu to respond more quickly and effectively to dumped and subsidised imports, in view of the possible change in the administration of the eu anti-dumping law for china from december 2016 and the huge 'human costs' for eu workers due to the current crisis in the steel sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway industry, which is at the heart of the transition to sustainable mobility. the railway industry in the european union is a sector characterised by a high presence of smes. the competitiveness of this sector, especially in the face of the strong and often unfair competition from third countries, requires investment in innovation. in this regard, the eu has launched a joint technology initiative programme which has encountered a number of obstacles in the launch process. the resolution we have adopted may be a further step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the european rail industry (eri) is a key sector for the eu's competitiveness and innovation capacity, employing 400 000 people and some 2.2 million workers, both direct and indirect, if the rail sector as a whole is taken into account. despite the good environmental performance that the sector is able to offer and the great capacity to transport large volumes, there are still competition problems. while the european union is open to competitors from other countries, the latter have adopted barriers which discriminate against the iff, in particular china, which is expanding rapidly and aggressively thanks to the political and financial support of its own country, thus putting jobs in europe at risk. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for fairer conditions of competition in the world through reciprocal access to markets. we also call on the commission to work with the railway sector to ensure more effective use of the european structural investment funds (esi funds) and in particular the european regional development fund (erdf), while seeking to simplify business procedures for smes and to remove all tariff and non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway industry, tabled by martina werner, a member of the socialist and democratic group, was voted in favour. investing in the railway sector today is a necessity from many points of view: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods, which is a matter of urgency. i particularly appreciate the fact that this proposal aims at an integrated electronic ticketing system, so as to facilitate the movement of workers and tourists in europe, and that it considers the railway sector, which is currently in a state of shortage of qualified personnel, as an opportunity for young european engineers.
in writing. ‒ the european rail industry plays a very important role in achieving the decarbonisation targets of the transport sector. although still largely dependent on public investment, smes are central to the supply of railway equipment and technology, which is essential for the modernisation and efficiency of rail passenger and freight transport. but it is necessary to recognise the danger posed by non-european companies financed by third countries such as china and to protect european companies from unfair competition by creating a market with a level playing field, preserving european industrial know-how so as to protect existing jobs and create new ones.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to express my thanks to the seven remaining meps here, and, of course, to you. i feel very lonely tonight. but this issue is very important and i would like to remind all our colleagues here that at the hearing, a year and a half ago, i committed myself to work in order to enhance and deepen inter-institutional cooperation. i never forget that i am a parliamentarian myself, and the fact that i am from the other side does not mean that i do not share all these views expressed here today. this debate allows the commission to understand better where members of this house see the need for improving the information about negotiations for international agreements. first vice-president timmermans, as the commissioner in charge of that, will represent the commission in order to engage, together with the european parliament and the council, in a reflection on how to better implement parliament’s rights, under the treaty of course: the right to be fully and immediately informed at all stages of international negotiations. but let me also remind you that the obligation to inform parliament on international negotiations falls on both the commission and the council. moreover, we cannot disregard or circumvent the need to protect confidential or classified information related to international obligations or interinstitutional agreements. i would like once again to thank you for your contribution to this debate, and for your attention, and to wish you a nice weekend.
president of the state of israel. – mr president, madam vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union, honourable members, my wife nechama, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission i will speak my words in hebrew. (official translation of president rivlin’s speech, which was delivered in hebrew) a mere four hours: that is the flight time from tel-aviv to brussels. i could say that four hours, and light years, separate brussels and tel-aviv, but in truth there is not much difference between them, be it in awareness or in essence: two cosmopolitan cities, practically neighbours, not far from each other, both recently struck by a wave of terrorism. seated here are many delegates from numerous european countries. some share the mediterranean sea with us, all share a rich and painful history with the jewish people. about a month ago, the leaders of europe marked 100 years since the battle of verdun, the longest battle of world war i, with 900 000 casualties, including 300 000 fatalities. some half a million jewish soldiers served in the armies of the countries at war, often poised against each other, firing upon each other. but this ‘patriotic bloodletting’ did not bestow any privilege on the jewish people. quite the contrary: jews in every country were accused of spying and treason. germany started a ‘head-count’ of jewish soldiers. in eastern europe, jews were accused of bolshevism and of anti-bolshevism. it is estimated that more than 170 000 jewish soldiers were killed in world war i, and around 100 000 more were murdered in post-war pogroms. that horrible war, world war i, was the herald of the ‘exodus’ of the jewish people from europe. many jews saw in the united states of america their new home. others, zionist leaders, shaken and shocked from having had to face their own jewish brothers as foes on the battlefield, took action to fulfil the dream of a national home for the jewish people, in its ancient and eternal homeland, the land of israel. from where we stand today, the great war was but a promo to a much more horrendous war that followed suit: world war ii. in world war ii, the annihilation of the jewish people was a defined target of the axis powers headed by nazi germany. the second ‘european exodus’ of the jewish people occurred upon the defeat of the third reich. this was a traumatic emigration: one of refugees and agony, of a culture destroyed, of a people which lost one third of its sons and daughters. distinguished audience, even the wildest of imaginations could not have foreseen a course of events in which an ancient people returned from years of exile and rebuilt its historic homeland. a wild imagination could neither have foreseen such a convoluted historic course of events in which an utterly torn and bleeding continent, awash with the blood of war and strife, would have paved the way to a joint european parliament. and yes, no less important are the solid, steadfast ties created between us: ties embodied today in a wide array of joint ventures and cooperation, in research and innovation, in health and the environment, education and culture and many more areas. regardless of the perspective from which we look at this – our past, our present or the future we are awaiting – we intrinsically linked, israel and europe, in an unbreakable bond. just as humanity could not be what it is without europe, so europe could not be what it is without the jewish people. it would be difficult to imagine what humanity would have been like without plato, thomas aquinas, galileo galilei, martin luther or marie curie, just as it would be difficult to imagine what europe would be without maimonides, spinoza, freud or einstein. our common interests – and, moreover, our common values – dictate our present and shape our future. liberty, equality, justice, pluralism and religious tolerance, democracy: these are the basic tenets inscribed in israel’s declaration of independence. these are the constitutive values of the european union. the european union, and within it this distinguished parliament, is an audacious endeavour of politics and statehood. tomorrow this endeavour will be put to a complex test in the united kingdom, while, day in day out, it stands the test of refugees and migration on a historic scale. the state of israel too is an audacious endeavour of statehood, of a people returning to its land after two thousand years of exile. and, just like you, israel faces difficult and complex challenges. but unlike europe, which embarked upon a process of removing partitions between nations and states, israel wishes, and indeed must, remain first and foremost a national homeland, a safe haven for the jewish people. the state of israel is by no means a compensation for the holocaust, but the holocaust has posited as a basic tenet the necessity and vitality of the return of the jewish people to history, as a nation taking its fate in its own hands. i feel that the massive criticism aimed at israel in europe stems from, inter alia, a misunderstanding and an impatience toward this existential need of the jewish nation and the state of israel. on the other hand, and much to my regret, israel has a growing sense of impatience when it comes to europe. there are those who feel anger and frustration toward certain european actions, vis-à-vis what they perceive as sometimes unfair criticism, sometimes even contaminated by elements of condescension and, some would say, double standards. my european friends, we cannot agree on everything, but, as friends and as true allies, i call upon you and ask you: let us be patient. please respect the israeli considerations, even when different from your own. respect israel’s sovereignty and the democratic process of its decision-making. respect israel’s staunch commitment, indeed its very duty, to protect its citizens. for us it is the most sacred commandment of all. a few years ago, a french friend turned to me and said: ‘if we and the germans have made peace and put an end to conflict once and for all – and, believe me, what happened between us and them overshadows any other conflict i can think of – then there is no reason for you not to succeed.’ he continued: ‘how long have you and the arabs been fighting, all in all? one hundred years? fifty years? we have been fighting for a thousand years, and now it is over, forever.’ this is what he said to me. i am standing here today and saying in no uncertain manner: from 1993, the year in which the oslo accords were signed, the elected israeli leadership has been – as it still is – in support of the solution of ‘two-states for two peoples’. furthermore, being well versed in the israeli parliament, i know that any political agreement brought before the israeli knesset by an elected government will be approved. nevertheless, and with all the difficulty and pain involved, we must look reality straight in the eye and tell the truth. currently the practical conditions, the political and regional circumstances, which would enable us to reach a permanent agreement between us – the israelis and the palestinians – are failing to materialise. first, in order to achieve a comprehensive permanent agreement, an effective leadership is required. however, the palestinian leadership today is divided in (at least) two: the palestinian authority ruling over judea and samaria and, on the other hand, hamas, which rules gaza and is ideologically committed – in both its political and its military leadership – to the annihilation of israel. second, in order to achieve a stable and viable agreement, a reasonable regional and economic infrastructure is required. but we are living in a reality where the plague of murderous jihadi fundamentalism, religious fanaticism and incitement – embodied in the islamic state and hezbollah – are at our very borders and have not missed out gaza and the west bank either. we live in a reality of a chaos-stricken middle east in which uncertainty is the only certainty. to this worrisome picture, add the dire economic straits, poverty and lack of infrastructure in gaza and judea and samaria, which in turn will continue the destabilisation and nurture violence. in this respect, israel is making, and will continue to make, vast efforts: more than any other actor in the region, and even at the price of complex security risk-taking. but israeli intervention alone will not suffice. finally, one should bear in mind the most fundamental trait of israeli-palestinian relations today, which is, to my deep regret, a total lack of trust between the parties on all levels; between the leaderships and the peoples. i am afraid that, for years, the international community has been acting as a mediator between the parties based on one inflexible paradigm, that of striving to renew negotiations toward a permanent agreement. this paradigm leads to a dichotomy: ‘two states or a bi-national state’, ‘all or nothing’, ‘here and now or nevermore’. it is, by the way, by virtue of that same paradigm that various european states opposed the peace agreement between israel and egypt, claiming that it does not provide a solution for the israeli-palestinian conflict. had that concept been accepted then, imagine where we would be today. this paradigm relies on the assumption that the problem which is the crux of the matter in this bloody and painful conflict is simply the lack of good faith on both sides, and that, if only pressure is exerted on ‘them’ and on ‘us’, they will adhere to a permanent agreement and to a state of peace. however, as years go by and rounds of negotiations fail one by one, bringing in their wake waves of murderous violence and terror, it seems that this assumption of a ‘lack of good will’ is proving not only to be fundamentally erroneous but also to ignore the circumstances, the capabilities, and the present situation on the ground. and that, by definition, would lead to the failure of any attempt to negotiate a permanent agreement. ladies and gentlemen, i speak before you today in the name of the citizens of israel, grandfathers and grandmothers, fathers and mothers, sick and tired of this bloody vicious cycle which soaks up the blood of our loved ones, the blood of our sons and daughters. i speak before you in the name of these young men and women who wish to live in their country, and not die in their homeland. i speak to you today in the name of a nation that abhors war and desires life and peace. and, i must say, one cannot hope to achieve better results while resorting to the same outlooks and tools that have previously failed time after time. the french initiative, adopted by the eu institutions only a few days ago, suffers from those very fundamental faults. the attempt to return to negotiations for negotiations’ sake not only does not bring us near the long-awaited solution, but rather drags us further away from it. this striving for a permanent agreement ‘now’, is the chronicle of a predictable failure, which will only push the two peoples deeper into despair. this despair is the hottest bed for extremism, and undermines the endeavours of moderates. and this despair, ladies and gentlemen, today seizes not just members of my generation but also boys and girls growing up in this part of the world, whose worldview and awareness are shaped by the violent present. this despair is the gravest danger looming over us, israelis and palestinians alike. if the international community really wishes and truly aspires to be a constructive player, it must divert its efforts away from the renewal of negotiations for negotiations’ sake, and toward building trust between the parties and creating the necessary terms for the success of negotiations in the future. in the current circumstances, we must all ask ourselves ‘what can be done today?’ rather than ‘what cannot be done?’ and things can be done. this mission of creating the terms for a future agreement, creating an infrastructure for trust, and for a life of dignity for both peoples, demands of us today – the international community and israel alike – that we invest tremendous efforts in four main avenues. the first is harnessing the moderate powers in the region. the cooperation with jordan and egypt is a supreme common interest of israel and the international community as well, with the aim of preventing military build-ups beyond our borders, and in order to eradicate extremism and preserve the stability of the region. similarly, the involvement and effective guaranties of friendly states in the region may also reduce the violent friction and serve as a warranty for future action. the second avenue is developing palestinian economy and infrastructures for quality of life. one cannot speak about a future agreement when people live with a basic existential feeling of having no future, no opportunities, no hope and no horizon. with the backdrop of economic difficulties in judea and samaria, and the situation in gaza, a broad economic course of action is called for. infrastructures must be developed – gas, electricity, water, sewerage and housing – in gaza and judea and samaria. at the same time, a solution must be found to the human tragedy in gaza – whereby around 1.5 million palestinians are held hostage by a jihadist terrorist organisation, hamas – just as solutions must be found to the movement of residents, the transfer of trade and the enabling the appropriate security. on this issue, the state of israel has repeatedly stated its willingness to join hands with the international community in a joint endeavour. israel considers the rehabilitation of gaza and the economic development and equalising of standards of life on both the palestinian and israeli sides to be both an ethical and a security interest. sources of livelihood and employment must be developed too, as israeli and international companies that identify the potential of investing in the human capital between the jordan and the sea, have already begun to do. the development of a stable palestinian economy must be carried out, laying the emphasis on developing a real, independent and vital private sector as a stabilising factor free of political interests. furthermore, developing the economy must take into account the need for developing infrastructures for quality of life, for a life of dignity and wellbeing. rawabi, the first planned palestinian city ever built in the palestinian authority, is a model of the power and significance of basic wellbeing in creating a breathing space and a feeling of movement and progress. the third avenue is investing in joint ventures aimed at creating joint interests. whether we wish it or not, we – israelis and palestinians – share a small and common area, with common regional resources and assets, and common regional challenges. together, we live on what is equal to one third of austria. in such small and crowded space, creating common interests is a crucial factor in strengthening stability, and in creating the terms needed to replace the next war with programmes benefiting both parties. we should foster and promote joint israeli-palestinian development ventures in the fields of renewable energy, infrastructure and the environment, joint industrial and tourism ventures and cultural and social ventures: between israeli and palestinian local authorities, and between private corporations and business people on both sides. for instance, the ecological park being developed through cooperation between the regional council of gilboa and the palestinian city of jenin, with the support of the international community, in which the shared kishon river is undergoing cleaning and purification processes, with the aim of providing a solution to one of the most complex issues of the conflict – the water problem. you, ladies and gentlemen, know better than i do how joint ventures create a horizon for another reality. fourthly and ultimately there is the avenue of education. increasing stability, developing infrastructures and strategic terms are essential conditions, but are not enough. creating the conditions for any future agreement requires conditioning hearts on both sides for the possibility of living with mutual respect. peace is made between leaders but peace is also made between peoples. changing present trends requires addressing deep-rooted hatred and fear. otherwise fear will have the upper hand, if only because it is, to our regret, much more tangible than hope. building trust demands an investment in the creation of wide channels of communication, not only in security contexts but also in academic, cultural, and governance contexts – and, at the same time, educating future generations to become acquainted with our neighbours, their culture and language. distinguished audience, the state of israel values the efforts invested by the international community in general, and by the european union in particular, in seeking a peaceful future between the parties. the responsibility for building trust between us and our neighbours rests, first and foremost, on the shoulders of the two parties. but if europe is interested in serving as a constructive factor in striving for a future agreement it will be incumbent upon you, its leaders, to focus efforts at this time in a patient and methodical building of trust: not through divestments, but through investment; not by boycotts, but by cooperation. it is no easy task for me to stand here before you today and say that, at this time, a permanent agreement for peace between us and the palestinians cannot be achieved – because, first and foremost, i stand before the israeli people, before my children and grandchildren, before the israeli and palestinian children wherever they are. it is to them that i and we, and all of us, are to be held accountable: to ask ourselves what we have actually done to promise them, someday, another future? i believe in the capability of both these peoples to live with each other, for the simple reason that we have no other choice. if we desire life, we must, today, invest our utmost efforts in what can be achieved, not in that which cannot – for the sake of our future, and that of our children. i would like to thank my friend, the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, for the invitation to come here, in the same week as the president of the palestinian authority, mahmoud abbas. there can be no substitute for direct and joint conversation. in this act you have taken a step, albeit small, to bolster trust between the parties. distinguished audience, 100 years ago the thought of a joint european parliament was inconceivable. cooperation in the fields of electricity, gas and coal started this miracle of a europe living in peace with itself. small steps created a great reality. help us step forward, step together with us, for the sake of the possibility that one day, an israeli president will tell another world leader: ‘if we and the palestinians have made peace and put an end to conflict once and for all, there is really no reason whatsoever that you cannot succeed. we fought for many dozens of years and now it is over, forever.’ on behalf of the people in israel, i wish all europe’s muslims, and the muslim believers throughout the entire world, ramadan karim, kul am wa antum bikhair. ladies and gentlemen, ‘pray for the peace of jerusalem, may all who love her prosper. peace be within thy walls and prosperity within thy palaces. for my brethren and companions’ sake, i will now say, peace be within thee.’ (psalm 122, 6-8). god bless you all. (applause)
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this house has adopted a number of resolutions on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc), and more specifically on the situation in the eastern border areas, including the kivus. we are all aware of the shocking violence which has been reported since last autumn, especially in north kivu. some localities have been especially badly affected. the number of dead in beni territory alone is estimated by civil society sources at over 550 since september 2014. in addition, tens of thousands of people have been displaced. naturally, the eu’s immediate priority is humanitarian access, and we call once again for a stop to the targeting and kidnapping of humanitarian workers. i recall, of course, that when serving the needs of afflicted populations, the european commission humanitarian aid office (echo) acts in accordance with the principles laid down in council regulation (ec) no 1257/96, notably those of impartiality and non-discrimination. the recent violence has been made possible by an ongoing absence of state control. institutions and services to deal with the prevention and elimination of violence, and legal action against those responsible, are missing. regrettably, state-building activities in drc are also held back by the current uncertainty over the organisation of elections, which are due this year under the constitution. another aspect which continues to be relevant is the exploitation by armed groups of both wildlife and mineral natural resources. the recent report by the united nations group of experts on the drc underlines the ongoing involvement of the lord’s resistance army in poaching, and also draws particular attention to the laundering by armed groups of gold into the supply chain and onto the international market. it is of some consolation that armed groups have had fewer opportunities to benefit from illegal involvement in tin, tungsten and tantalum, thanks to due diligence and traceability systems. the eu will continue its effort to address the natural resources dimension of the great lake region stabilisation effort. while understanding the root causes of violence and instability is important, it does not excuse perpetrators, who must submit to the rule of law. this applies equally to incitement of violence and hate speech. it is individuals, not entire communities or ethnic groups, who must account for their actions. as has been stated many times before in this house, the activities of armed groups in eastern drc are an affront to citizens, undermining their human and legal rights, holding back development, destroying peace of mind and, in short, making it difficult to plan ahead or to think of the future. for armed groups to be put out of action, an effective and operational level of cooperation between the congolese armed forces and the un stabilisation mission in the democratic republic of the congo (monusco) is needed, and it is needed quickly. an agreement in principle was realised in february, but it needs to be put into practice. the justice angle is also important. as a supporter of both civil and military justice reform in drc, the eu insists that those found to be assisting or conspiring with armed groups must be prosecuted. as regards serious atrocities committed in eastern drc, we encourage the exploration of all legal options for the investigation and prosecution of those crimes. the primary responsibility for investigating and prosecuting lies with the state where the crime took place or the state where the perpetrator is a national. the eu will continue to offer assistance to the drc to assure structures are established and backed up with strong legislative frameworks in order to enable this. i want to turn now to the broader but critical issue of governance. with elections due in only a few months, drc finds itself at a key moment. un security council resolution 2277 (2016) is a starting point for all of us. this resolution was adopted unanimously in march. it underlines the primary responsibility of the drc authorities to prepare and organise elections in respect of their relevant constitutional provisions. naturally, the eu has noted the decision of the constitutional court of the drc in may this year. the eu also fully respects the sovereignty of the drc. at the same time, and within the framework not only of the cotonou agreement but also the african union charter of democracy elections and governance, we underline that a democratic government builds its legitimacy on regular elections within the deadline set out in the constitution. to achieve a consensus leading to elections, a political dialogue is urgently needed, but time is of the essence and the dialogue should be focused. all representative political actors should be involved. such a dialogue can produce, as its main deliverable, a clear road map, based on a calendar and financing plan, for what needs to be done to deliver elections respecting the constitution. in this context, the eu, together with the un, the au and the oif, again repeated on 6 june 2016 its support for the mission of his excellency edem kodjo, the eu facilitator supported by the united nations, to implement a successful dialogue. let me end by saying that successful elections will depend not only on technicalities, but also on their achieving the right climate in terms of respect for rights and freedoms. freedom of expression and peaceful assembly are the cornerstones of any democratic society. ensuring and protecting an open political space are essential to allowing the political dialogue i have mentioned earlier to take place.
i must confess that i have often heard military experts and analysts repeat a definition that gives me the creeps: there is a conflict in north kivu, but it is a low-level conflict. a low voltage that in the last 20 years has caused six million deaths and one and a half million displaced persons. if we do a cold calculation, we're talking about 300,000 deaths a year, 800 deaths a day, and these experts are talking about low blood pressure. i think that instead of saying 'low tension' we should say 'low attention', that is, the lack of attention by the international community to a tragedy of frightening proportions. that is why we are addressing ourselves in particular to the high representative, federica mogherini, who i know is sensitive to these issues. we want to stop together the escalation of violence perpetrated on the defenseless population by militias who have every interest in controlling a territory that is among the richest in the world in terms of mineral resources. we have concrete proposals, very clear ones. firstly, we call for the establishment of an independent international commission of inquiry to shed light on the causes and perpetrators of the massacre. two: we are calling for the international criminal court to be involved in what happened in beni. thirdly, we want a un report on the results of the monusco mission and, above all, we want the un contingent to make full use of the mandate it has been given, namely to intervene to protect civilians. four , you 're not going to we call on the african union to do its part and to invest more energy in resolving this conflict. my group, as an autonomous action of the socialists and democrats, will send my colleague elena valenciano, chair of the subcommittee on human rights, to the kivu region to meet and listen to the representatives of congolese civil society and all the actors present on the ground, gathering information which, on her return, we will share with her colleagues in parliament and with the european institutional leaders, starting with the president of this assembly and high representative federica mogherini. the international community must wake up! you're not going to die. do not abandon the congolese people in kivu to their fate and act to stop the violence that has been going on for 20 years.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 1960, when the congo gained independence from belgium, it has in fact been in a spiral of violence. the situation has certainly not improved in recent years, with president kabila, rather than thinking about solving the problems of human rights violations, seemingly thinking exclusively about how to maintain power in view of the next elections. several colleagues have already said this: the situation is tragic in the eastern provinces, in north and south kivu, in katanga. the cause is always the same, it is the wealth of this country, the exploitation of resources, raw materials and minerals. i think that perhaps what we can do is try to take a more rigid stance towards the european multinationals operating in those regions, try to carry out independent investigations and hold the united nations to account for this mission - monusco - which has had a very ambiguous mandate and results which are difficult to establish. it seems strange that we can't get a hold of the un mission, and we can't find any reports on the mining and trafficking of minerals that they should know about. this is the third resolution we have taken on the congo in a short time. i think it is time to find some concrete results, to take some steps forward, otherwise we will be talking systematically about nothing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today i am ben. why did i go off the beaten path this morning instead of sitting at home with my kids? why didn't i ask my husband to come with me? why did i not decide to do as those over 400 000 compatriots who left the country precisely to escape this violence? yeah, but to go where? in europe? in south africa? and if they sent us back, saying we were not entitled to international protection, where would we go? what about beni? but i felt safe here. monusco headquarters is not far away. they have a mandate to protect us, it's the international community that wanted them. but it's good that i was alone, so my family is safe, at least for now. and i saved them the inhumane spectacle. these beasts didn't just rape me, they raided me with razors and blades and then they completed the job by burning me. i was still conscious, but i wasn't afraid, i thought about you and my children and it was all over in an instant. i'm happy, though. i'm glad i didn't recognize any familiar faces among the village spectators, forced to witness those massacres. i'm glad because in this last raid we were mostly adults, very few children fortunately. they didn't last long in that hell, they left almost immediately. besides, i'm happy because no one will see the broken parts of my body, my body after hours and hours of torture. it is a great good thing that the international community cares little about what is happening here in eastern congo, and that the media has other things to worry about. dear colleagues, from october 2014 to march 2016 in the territories of beni, lubero and butembo, 1,200 people were massacred in the general indifference. the risk is genocide. it's a shame, you know. no impunity for those responsible for these massacres. when will there be justice for beni?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the eastern province of congo is quite clear and the responses to this crisis have been inadequate. i must say with all sincerity that i have heard some crocodile tears in this house from those who, amongst others, have obstructed the regulation which allows the trade in minerals from conflict zones to be avoided, and many have gone to the wrong place in the council and in the commission. the council and the commission are a mixture of hypocrisy and schizophrenia in this respect and perhaps they should be at least consistent with what they are saying here. things are clear. there are some points which should be defined in a platform to avoid, in essence, that the european union proves to be powerless in the face of what is happening. president kabila must go. we must build the conditions for a political transition. it must be said that there is an insufficient response from the congolese regular army, where soldiers would have been left on more occasions helpless. it must be said that there is an inadequacy of the un mission operating in the country and that, despite being one of the most impressive deployments, it is not proving to be able to stop the crisis. it is also strange that two states which are part of the mission, uganda and rwanda, are suspected of providing military support to the same rebels against whom they are fighting. i would like to say that we need an international commission, that the un must launch an inquiry to achieve the objectives it has set itself. we need a strong signal and above all we need the european union to emerge from this kind of impotence and incapacity to decide.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that we have dealt with the congo. the situation in this country remains dramatic. recently, mass graves with hundreds of bodies have been discovered. since 2014, more than 850 men, women and children have been killed by machete, club and knife attacks, and others have been subjected to all kinds of torture. every minute a woman is raped. more than 1,500 people were kidnapped. the population is being massacred by armed gangs who are carrying out a real genocide. the missionaries and religious, along with the peace network for congo, are calling for an international investigation into what is happening in north kivu, the region bordering rwanda. the international community and the european union must intervene now more than ever to put an end to the massacres, the appeal of the airborne organisations must be heeded and the un must set up an international commission of inquiry to put an end to this tragedy.
in writing. the situation in congo, despite the efforts of the government, remains dire. serious violations of human rights, war crimes and crimes against humanity are being committed. the ongoing conflict is also forcing the population to flee, threatened by an increasing number of armed groups controlling several villages. the north-east of the country, in particular, continues to be the hardest hit. on several occasions, reports of massacres, recruitment of minors and sexual violence have been reported. in some areas there are restrictions on financial access for humanitarian aid. moreover, the whole thing is consuming in the indifference of the international community and in the almost total silence of the media. a thorough investigation must be launched and targeted and effective sanctions must be put in place, putting an end to the indifference which has characterised the conflict so far.
in writing. we all have before our eyes the dramatic fact that the situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate in the north-eastern part of the country, where dozens of armed groups remain active and massacres and all kinds of war crimes, including sexual and gender-based violence, as well as incidents of recruitment and employment of minors by armed groups, are systematically denounced. the european union must take concrete action to put an end to the escalation of violence against the defenseless population by militias with an interest in controlling one of the richest territories in the world. firstly, by immediately setting up an independent international commission of inquiry which will take concrete action to implement the principle that no violation of rights can go unpunished, let alone the commission of actual war crimes. we also want a un report on the results of the monusco mission and, above all, we want the un contingent to make full use of its mandate to intervene to protect civilians. this mission had a very ambiguous mandate and results that are difficult to determine.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. isis often puts the hat on us, but the acts we suffer are born in the home, our fellow citizens decide them, alone. the choice of joe cox's killer to defend his ideas with a knife is the fabric of our cities, of our culture. political participation is considered a dead tool, violence becomes a common evil. "i needed recognition", said the cop killer in magnanville. we need to try to understand how this transition happens, without obsessively focusing on individual triggers: the internet, the prisons, the schools. even more harmful is the response by increasingly monitored democracies, islamophobia and wars to violence which is not warlike but linked to individual or social uprooting which is difficult to decipher. the murder of joe cox is reminiscent of the assassination of archduke franz ferdinand in 1914: the shot against a multiethnic empire does not fall from the sky, it is the result of decades of political desertion by the elites. if terrorism is met with the politics of fear, with fear of conflict, terrorism will win.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, whenever a tragic event occurs, such as the orlando and cox murders, we come here to talk. we are here talking and we are, perhaps in committee, also working on counter-terrorism documents. as we try to treat the effects of what is an extremely high phenomenon, we forget that first the causes must be addressed, the causes must be understood. i would like to mention a few: we have poverty, social disadvantage, exclusion, lack of job prospects, cultural alienation, broken family bonds. these are the causes that create the fertile ground for radicalization. let us not forget that many of the new terrorists, those who are formed through social media, are people born and raised on our continent, people who have lived on the margins, because today we do not know how to deal with a crisis, a social emergency that weighs on this europe and not only on european citizens, but also on those who have arrived and whom we have not been able to integrate and, sometimes, we have not even wanted to integrate. so we have to always remember what the causes are, because only by understanding the causes do we cure the effects. today it is important, today we continue to talk, let's solve the causes of poverty, because only by dismantling poverty, by taking charge of the poor, of all the poor, can we tackle the problem of radicalization.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we were warning many years ago of the danger of reckless immigration, of openness to all and of the spread throughout europe of radical islamist preaching which was political, which had nothing to do with the koran but had much to do with hatred of our civilization, all we got were trials, accusations of racism and xenophobia. now, finally, we hear the commission and the council say that they have realised that there is a danger, there is even the 'uberization' of terrorism, in the midst of our homes, they shoot at policemen, they even shoot at gays. we should be reassured by the commission's statements that it is looking into how to prevent terrorism. but when you read the words of the eu's counter-terrorism coordinator, gilles de kerchove, who said, verbatim, about foreign fighters, that we should inevitably be able to reintegrate them, because we cannot lock them all in prisons, that we must offer them a new alternative to life... we are crazy! here in europe, you don't have clear ideas, you have to throw them out of europe... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks in paris and brussels have dramatically raised the question of the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organizations and the need to prevent radicalisation. these are men and women, often young, who share a sense of disconnection from society and who represent a threat to security in europe and in neighbouring countries. but to defend ourselves against this phenomenon, we must not only suppress it, but also put in place effective prevention policies, by strengthening intercultural dialogue with all religious communities, by increasing the exchange of information between the countries of the union and, of course, by dismantling the terrorist networks, aiming to tackle the money laundering which, as is well known, ends up financing these networks. in short, a strategy to counter extremism and radicalisation will only work if it is developed in parallel with a strategy of integration and social inclusion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the multiannual plan for the baltic lays the foundations for the sustainable management of the most important fish stocks in the baltic sea. it is the first plan of its kind since the reform of the common fisheries policy and i think that the plan is consistent and fully in line with the principles of the reform. i stress the importance of ensuring that the management of fish stocks in the baltic sea is based on up-to-date scientific data; it is essential that the new plan should draw on the input of those who know the region best, as they will be able to adapt measures at regional level to the specific nature of the fishing activity. the agreement paves the way for similar multiannual plans with the same model for fisheries in other geographical areas. multiannual management plans have proved to be very useful for the sustainable management of fisheries resources, as they establish clear rules for the exploitation of fish stocks, based on the precautionary approach and the principle of maximum sustainable yield, thereby ensuring conditions of stability and predictability.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my question is this: but who makes the rules for european business? is it us or is it washington? since october 2015, the european commission has gradually lifted sanctions and is allowing our companies to trade with iran again, while the united states has not yet lifted its sanctions and, in addition to banning its companies from doing business in iran, is heavily fining european companies that do so, under a law that allows the united states extraterritorial enforcement of its sanctions. that's because the u.s. government believes that anyone who uses the dollar in transactions implicitly recognizes its sovereignty. it is obvious that iran still has a long way to go, especially in respect of human rights, but since sanctions no longer block trade, european companies are rapidly filling the gaps left in the iranian market by years of embargoes, and i find it at least ridiculous that, after having received the authorization of the various european governments, our companies are blocked by the american one. as far as italy is concerned, so far only one major italian bank has been hit by the us fines, while another major bank is still awaiting a response and an italian company has been investigated by the us but has not been fined. but the same cannot be said for other european companies which will have to pay. the procedure for requesting washington to waive these sanctions is long and very complex, not easily accessible, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i do not want to deny, i repeat, that iran's road from regime to democracy is still very long, but this road also involves a gradual integration into the international trading system and above all, if europe has decided to give the green light to the investments of our companies in iran, the last word must certainly not belong to the united states.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of tomorrow's brexit vote, we would have expected a more energetic position from the european union, at least on these issues, when it comes to defending european businesses, but we are not even clear about the sanctions against iran that the united states has lifted. it is a situation of complete uncertainty, even in the words of the commission, while iran is repeating its invitations to european companies to enter that market which is spectacular, especially for a country like mine, italy, which was the first of the partners before the sanctions. in genoa, the hauliers tell us, there are tens of thousands of containers standing still, ready to leave with goods, which could boost our economy considerably. it is incredible that the european union should stand still, should show itself so weak, so uncertain, in the face of a problem of this kind, which is, i would say, at first sight, linked to a widespread interest of our enterprises and therefore also of our workers. unlike the commission, parliament is united and speaks out clearly about the abolition of these sanctions and the risk of fines on our companies by the american control bodies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vienna agreements and the subsequent gradual lifting of sanctions, which, let us remember, have contributed to a 70% reduction in trade between iran and the european union since 2005, open up new opportunities for european companies in a country of 80 million inhabitants, which is the biggest attraction for international investment since the fall of the berlin wall. i am thinking of mechanics, transport, the environment, the fight against pollution and the provision of technologies for the exploitation of renewable energy sources. the path has been set, now all the actors involved in this process - the european union, the united states, iran - must walk it together, to build solid relations based on mutual trust and not just on the respect of the agreements signed. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres, which will be able to provide information on the activities of the european union and its member states. the european union also calls on the united states of america to encourage investment in iran. it is impossible today for any company with at least 10% us ownership to do business with iran, because of the sanctions still in place that restrict freedom of action. we therefore strongly urge the commission to take this message to the american authorities. it is essential that the many memoranda of understanding signed so far by european public and private companies be translated into contracts and into concrete actions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the extraterritorial effects of the sanctions imposed by the united states on iran continue to create difficulties for european companies in accessing the iranian market. as a result of the sanctions between 2012 and 2013, the total imports of the european union from iran decreased by 86% and the total exports decreased by 26%. the european countries have followed up their commitments under the joint comprehensive plan of action, and it is now up to the united states to lift the restrictive measures. after iran's commitment to use nuclear energy for civilian purposes only, the signals of openness coming from tehran must be consolidated and directed towards a constructive dialogue at international level, which will open the way to iran's full reintegration into the international community. it is quite clear that the restoration of trade relations with a large part of the arab world is of fundamental importance for the stabilization of the region and for the improvement of human rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think this was a very useful exchange and i want to thank all honourable members for the clarity of their interventions. i assure you that we are analysing all of the subjects, especially particular cases. later on i will refer to airbus-boeing very briefly. but as far as this debate is concerned, i conclude that we share a common interest in ensuring that the plan of action works for all participants, especially for european companies and businesses, and leads to iran’s reintegration into the world economy. let me again reiterate that the eu is fully committed to providing all necessary assistance and the necessary references to the private sector on the lifting of sanctions, both business opportunities in iran and, of course, defending the interests of european companies. on airbus, i can only say that airbus signed a deal months ago. at the end of january, during the visit of the iranian president to france, it signed a deal with iran on 28 january for the export of aircraft. as for boeing, they only signed a memorandum of understanding, so not a contract, also for the export of aircraft, very recently. so the situation of both companies is almost the same, but with airbus it is a deal and with boeing it is just a memorandum of understanding. of course, we all know that the implementation is an ongoing task and we need to be diligent with our joint efforts, but i will of course pass all of your concerns and your comments to high representative mogherini. again i want to thank you for bringing the topic to the agenda. hopefully we will also discuss it in the future because it is really important for our european economy.
in writing. in october 2015, the european union, the united nations and the united states signed a landmark agreement with iran and adopted a joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa). the plan included a commitment that iran's nuclear programme would be for peaceful purposes only, in return for the gradual lifting of sanctions against tehran. a new chapter in international relations opened up to a constructive dialogue between the european union and iran, with the positive result of providing security for european companies wishing to invest in that country and enabling favourable conditions for the stabilization and social and economic development of iranian society. this process of rebuilding trade relations and dialogue with iran is currently hampered by the failure of the united states to lift financial sanctions; the european union is also calling for the release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in iran, and for the release of all political prisoners. i am therefore convinced that the european union must take active action in the coming months to ensure that the us also fully implements the provisions of the jcpoa.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank mr cavada for his work and, above all, for the consensus reached in the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on this dossier. the adoption of this regulation is at last a step forward, as my colleagues have said, for real rights. this regulation finally provides a concrete answer to the needs of legal certainty and simplification for some 16 million european couples living in cross-border situations. finally, it will be easier to know the law, to apply the relevant jurisdiction and the procedures for applying the various existing property regimes. it is hoped that now, after the entry into force of the regulation in the 18 states which have supported enhanced cooperation, others may be added, so as to make the european system even more effective and coherent. i would like to thank the dutch presidency for having succeeded in concluding the negotiations in a positive way and i would therefore invite the future slovak presidency to work towards extending the consensus of the whole council on this reform.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the increasing mobility of people in an area without internal frontiers has led to a significant increase in unions between citizens of different member states. as many as 16 million international couples are forced to face difficulties both in the day-to-day management of their assets and in the division of assets following personal separation or the death of a partner. difficulties often arise from the wide disparity between the applicable rules, both substantive and private international law, on the property consequences of marriage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the great step forward is the principle of the unity of the applicable law, which provides that the law of matrimonial property regimes applies to all assets held within the union, wherever they are located. in short, we need a uniform regulation which will really help to develop family issues.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the culture and education committee and especially the rapporteur mr krasnodębski for his excellent report which follows up on the joint council and commission report regarding the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training 2020. education and training 2020 is important: it is the umbrella under which all eu-level policy exchanges on education and training between member states take place. it covers learning in all contexts, whether formal or non-formal, and at all levels, from early childhood education and schools through to higher education, vocational education and training, and other learning. thanks to the joint report which the commission and council adopted last november, we defined our new common priorities in the field of education and training, which all contribute to the current top priorities of the eu. we now have a much more focused agenda which concentrates on key issues, namely the provision of relevant and high-quality knowledge, the recognition and transparency of skills, inclusive education including the promotion of civic competences, the promotion of innovative approaches fully embracing the digital era, strong support for our teachers and, last but not least, sustainable investment in education and training. we have made sure that education and training 2020 is firmly embedded in the union’s overall political priorities and actively contributes to the development of skills and employability. the new skills agenda, which the commission adopted on 10 june, underscores this point and announces a series of actions at eu-level in which education cooperation plays a key role. education and training are not only important for acquiring skills for jobs: education is equally important to ensure social inclusion and to make certain that our human and civic values are safeguarded and passed on to future generations. these elements have been much reinforced in the new priorities under education and training 2020. i am proud to announce that one of the working groups is specially dedicated to the follow-up of the paris declaration, and we play a key role in exchanging with member states on how to strengthen inclusive education and our common values – a very relevant development in the light of the recent action plan for the integration of migrants, and the new commission communication to support the prevention of violent extremism, which were adopted some days ago, both highlighting this dimension. i am very pleased that the european parliament is strongly supporting this increased attention to social inclusion, civic competences and common values in our work with member states. your voice will be important to further develop this dimension. your report also highlights a number of problematic issues on the european education scene. we have taken good note of your concern about a brain-drain and imbalanced mobility, for example. of course, there are larger structural issues behind this which go beyond the education dimension, such as varying employment opportunities across europe. the bologna process, which supports the provision of high-quality education in all member states, makes a positive contribution to addressing these challenges. also the new education and training 2020 working group on the modernisation of higher education will address the issues of internationalisation, recognition and mobility in a balanced perspective. let me end by once again thanking parliament and the rapporteur, mr krasnodębski, for your very valuable input and your strong support for our joint efforts in this field. i am now looking forward to what will surely be an interesting debate.
i think that this update of the et2020 strategy for education and training has actually set new objectives and taken on the new challenges facing europe. we have already discussed not only radicalisation but also education which must face at least two challenges: social inclusion - we still have too many differences in educational landscapes - and a greater focus on the quality of education systems, on the one hand, and, on the other, the ability to create the so-called informal skills of citizenship, key cross-cutting skills that also serve to activate that intercultural dialogue, that ability to be citizens not only of europe but also of the world that is now absolutely necessary. i am very grateful to mr krasnodębski for this report, which also shows how, after the paris declaration of march 2015, which the commissioner also referred to, the attention of the whole commission has been somewhat recalibrated after these very serious events, giving more support to the centrality of education that we have not seen so strongly in the juncker programme until now. we are aware that the strategic issue of education and cultural investment is a matter for the future of europe today. it is important that this communication on the modernisation of higher education has been announced, also to make the system of comparability of qualifications, credits and also the bologna process, which still has several difficulties, more effective. i think it is absolutely right, as the rapporteur has said, to support teachers too. i think that perhaps the problem of support for teachers should be better emphasised and that it is absolutely necessary, for example, to make more use of the efsi investment plan for european platforms which also help in the field of schooling and education, for example with reference to the digital adaptation of profiles and educational content. the problem of too many differences still existing in europe in terms of different access, educational poverty, learning outcomes and prospects for immigrants remains. but i believe that this initiative, together with the one put forward by commissioner thyssen together with commissioner navracsics on the new skills agenda, can finally build a greater centrality of european education policies.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, austerity policies have had a devastating effect, which has also hit the education sector hard, undermining the quality of education, the conditions of teachers, families, students and access to training opportunities. unfortunately, we have not had the courage in this report to denounce the fact that the marked reduction in funding and, more generally, the increase in problems in the education and training sector are a direct consequence of the austerity policies which the commission continues to impose on the citizens of europe. since the beginning of the crisis, it has been found that the choice of models adopted at eu level, rather than converging towards reducing inequalities, has dramatically increased disparities and discrimination based on economic ownership. the fact that the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training is clearly functional to the union's current economic model, which also includes the juncker plan, is further confirmation of a cynical will to continue on a path that has already proved to be unsuccessful and harmful. since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the five star movement has been calling for concrete action to strengthen the social dimension of education and training. since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the five star movement has been calling for a genuine commitment to tackling the serious socioeconomic problems affecting the lives of citizens and to equal access to educational and training opportunities. hiding reality will only serve to be swept away like a flooded river when it is too late. we cannot stop at sterile declarations of intent, we cannot continue to sell as a panacea the models of economic governance, austerity, initiatives and plans which have already created disasters in half of europe. for people living in a dark corner of social pain and marginalization, who are also effectively denied free access to knowledge and learning, the empty talk of politics is an unbearable and cruelly ridiculous exercise. i will continue to denounce this absurd situation without pause and to fight so that change can take place as quickly as possible.
in writing. over the past decade, the number of people with access to formal education has increased significantly. but europe is stuck at frightening levels of youth unemployment, even among graduates. there is a need to increase the efficiency of education and training systems and overall levels of skills and competences, by strengthening the link between the world of work and the world of education and by ensuring effective communication and the development of partnerships between relevant policy areas and education and training sub-sectors. education, like training, is the sine qua non for real personal and collective growth. another point in the report which i would like to emphasise is support for educators, which has been identified as one of the new priority areas of et2020. the quality of teacher training and lifelong professional development programmes are unfortunately still lagging behind the sudden increase in the multiplicity and complexity of the skills required for teaching. particular attention should be paid to the needs of different types of students, such as those belonging to ethnic or religious minorities, from low-income families and immigrants, also in the light of the acceleration of intra-european mobility and the ongoing refugee crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a recent survey carried out by the campania region's child and adolescent welfare officer revealed over 200 cases of child abuse and violence. the accompanying research report reports that there are entire areas, in very critical neighborhoods, where sexual abuse and incest are elevated to normal. all the media have covered this research, sometimes inappropriately. it's not a costume phenomenon, but it's stories of poverty, isolation, degradation and social exclusion. these are desperately abandoned neighborhoods, where the criminal gang runs the territory and illegal activities are the only sources of income. i wanted to speak tonight because it is the duty of all the institutions to shine a light on this horrible and shameful phenomenon, so that it is not only the subject of studies and in-depth studies, but above all the subject of prevention and counteraction policies. we must do more and act more efficiently and effectively to help the most vulnerable citizens. the commission should work more closely with the member states to put in place more effective instruments to ensure growth and jobs, to protect those who need protection most and to strengthen the system of guaranteeing children's rights.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin today by telling you a story that has never been told in this chamber. ten years ago in rome, the first group of what became the five star movement had given itself a name: "utopia and reality". in italy, they used to make fun of us, saying: "you'll never make it, without money, without newspapers"...; and everyone was against us. and yet in italy, after only ten years, the same people are now telling us: "you were right, hang in there, keep going, represent hope". the wind of change that we then boldly proposed is now blowing strongly in our country. perhaps you have sensed it too. but we, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to stop in italy, we want to bring the utopia of change to europe, to these rooms, to all the member states. energy is the topic of today. we want the union to set binding targets of 40% for energy efficiency and at least 30% for renewables, translated into specific national targets. we want to see a chapter on prosumers, which will no longer leave them to the dancing moods of the various governments, and we want to see a common definition of the term, the rights to self-production, self-consumption, storage and sale of excess energy, forms of support, investment and the elimination of the main administrative and market barriers. we simply want the energy union to be truly citizen-centred and to enable europeans to escape the constraints of energy geopolitics once and for all. we want to respect the paris agreement and leave fossil fuels in the ground, the only guarantee to avoid climate catastrophe. none of us can predict today's vote and especially our future, but we know for sure that nature is giving us signals: floods, droughts, migration, competition for resources. it will be technological innovation and social innovation that will bring about the necessary changes. politics and economics will have to, sooner or later, willingly or unwillingly, bend their heads to change and adapt to the facts. that is a certainty, because it has always been so. but we do not want, as europe and as humanity, to be late. we have to be the flywheel, the human flywheel... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the debate on renewable energy and energy efficiency is a debate which is very passionate and unfortunately often has a strong potential for rhetorical decay, so that many of my colleagues sometimes take very strong positions and are very much concerned with environmental protection when they speak in this house and then perhaps they are invited to a conference organized by the steel industry in an eastern country and in that place, after saying that we must protect the environment, they say that jobs come first. so we have to find a balance, a point of balance that these two relationships are trying to reach. but beware of some risks. the first: europe has historically achieved excellent levels of sustainability in the context of economic development that also protects the environment, without the need for a gun to the head. he did it because it's in our entrepreneurial culture -- with the good will of the opponents of liberal culture -- to build a development model around humans, sure with flaws, but that's the way our entrepreneurs work. so be careful to impose absolute constraints on individual countries, because in europe we have countries like my own, italy, which can comply with those constraints without any problems, but we also have other countries which are trying to start over with difficulty. so let us give europe a reasoning which is capable of speaking of true sustainability, that is, investment that is sustained over time. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that the objectives set are correct, but that they are sometimes unrealistic. the subsidies that governments normally decide to give to renewable energy production are usually good, but sometimes they are bad. italy, for example, has spent six and a half billion euros for years to support photovoltaics. today that money is a cost to the citizens, to a sector that...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the five star movement considers it essential to move quickly away from reliance on fossil fuels in order to facilitate widespread self-production and self-sufficiency in energy based on renewable sources. the european union's commitment to reducing co2 emissions, but also the urgency of taking action to drastically reduce the level of pollutants such as heavy metals and dioxins in the air, water and soil, should oblige all states to put in place effective measures in a timely manner. it's about our health and our environment, but it's also about our financial resources, given the health and social costs of an environment devastated by our dependence on fossil fuels like oil, coal and gas. a major effort is needed to ensure that the transition is rapid, and this can be supported by research, innovation and the effective and efficient use of all available european funds to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy production. this effort should not be held back, as we have unfortunately seen in countries like mine, by so-called structural reforms which in fact translate into policies of...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current combination of binding national targets, national action plans for renewable energy and biennial monitoring has been the driving force behind the development of renewable energy production capacity in the member states. the commission should, however, ensure full implementation of the 2020 renewable energy targets and should present an ambitious regulatory framework for the period afterwards. in this regard, a stable long-term regulatory framework is needed, including renewable energy targets at national and union level. the production of electricity from renewable sources should be integrated into distribution systems. unfortunately, in many member states the networks are simply unsuitable to receive electricity generated from variable renewable sources. a modernisation of energy networks is therefore essential. it is therefore essential to achieve our energy efficiency objectives by moving away from fossil fuels and phasing out subsidies for these fuels.
in writing. ‒ every infringement of eu law and every case of money laundering or tax evasion must be punished and sanctioned as swiftly as possible. the maintenance of a democratic system depends on the respect of the rules and the capacity of its institutions to act: we are all called, ethically and politically, to act so that the union enforces the rules and prosecutes those who break them.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry which will be responsible for investigating alleged cases of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. the european parliament decided to set up this committee in the wake of the panama papers scandal, the millions of documents leaked to the international media that allegedly revealed the existence of a gigantic pool of money being diverted from international law firms and banks to tax havens on behalf of political leaders, criminals, intelligence officials and sports and entertainment vips. the documents refer to transactions dating from 1977 to the end of 2015, and if confirmed, would offer a new look at the handling of large cash flows through the global financial system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed appointments to the commission of inquiry into alleged cases of breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion does not only affect the economic and financial sphere of our societies: it is about equity and the political and social balances of our countries. in fact, tax evasion and avoidance in europe costs between 50 and 70 billion euros each year. the panama papers have shed light on the extra-european dimension of the phenomenon: more than 200,000 companies, 550 banks and 14,000 customers are suspected of evading or avoiding taxes and laundering money. this kind of behaviour and practices are no longer acceptable. the s&d group therefore called for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate whether existing european legislation is adequate to deal with the phenomenon. the committee's tasks include drawing up the necessary recommendations to improve the existing legislative framework not only on tax avoidance but also on money laundering, including to see whether action will be needed to amend european legislation. it will also be an opportunity to investigate whether states have implemented existing directives and to check how the commission has acted towards eu states to effectively enforce the existing body of legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the composition of the committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ in response to the recent panama papers scandals, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance is proving to be a priority. to this end, all measures must be taken to reduce these situations as much as possible and to ensure greater fiscal justice. the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate alleged cases of breach and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance, i believe, can help to achieve this. that is why i voted for its constitution. this committee is just one of the instruments at european level and will be alongside the other measures adopted by the commission in the field of taxation. in twelve months' time we will produce a report which will examine complaints about member states' failure to comply with taxation and state aid rules, as well as the commission's failures to ensure that the relevant legislation is properly applied at national level. it is essential that there be loyal cooperation between the member states and this committee of inquiry will ensure that certain injustices are properly combated.
in writing. ‒ i thank the s&d group and all my colleagues for the confidence they have shown in me by nominating me as a member of the new special committee of inquiry to examine allegations of money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. i will be committed to ensuring that the events known as the 'panama papers' are properly investigated, with the aim of ensuring the utmost transparency about the facts and preventing the recurrence of new cases of circumvention and evasion to the detriment of citizens and growth.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the 'nominations for the commission of inquiry into alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance'. this is certainly one of the priorities which the european union cannot ignore as it concerns the protection of all those citizens who comply with the regulations and pay taxes. being able to identify instances of maladministration reduces waste, increases the efficiency of the system and instills confidence in our european citizens, and that is precisely the aim.
in writing. ‒ in view of the process of association of the republic of lebanon with the european union, parliament called for the conclusion of a protocol to facilitate the participation of the partner country in european programmes. the text, in line with the neighbourhood policies, aims to put in place all the necessary measures to support lebanon in achieving the objectives and standards laid down in the union. by establishing fruitful cooperation with lebanon, the eu will be able to assist the new partner in the transition and harmonisation process. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mănescu report approving the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the lebanese republic, of the other part. this is an important text which sets out a framework agreement between the eu and lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the lebanese republic in union programmes. this vote strengthens the neighbourhood policy by responding to two requirements: on the one hand, it will meet the 2013 demand of the middle eastern state for closer ties with the union, and on the other hand, it will strengthen the reform processes and the stability of a country which, occupying a strategic position in a highly vulnerable area, is a key ally in the fight against daesh and islamic terrorism. the framework agreement specifically defines a set of technical and financial rules to ensure lebanon's access to a wide range of eu programmes.
in writing. ‒ i find the manescu report unbalanced and not to be shared, so i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in exchange for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. lebanon, in particular, is one of the few countries in the middle east where the social and political system holds up despite the enormous problems it faces: an exceptional case of welcoming and tenacity that looks to the west and the development of the rule of law despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems, the difficult relationship with minorities and the jihadist militias still active in many areas of the country. the european union as a whole can look to the republic of lebanon as a friendly democracy in a key area which we must support, ensuring its territorial integrity and political survival, and allowing it to stabilise under appropriate conditions and to gradually enter the area of joint cooperation and joint management of the middle east crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe it is important to establish financial and technical rules to enable the lebanese republic to participate effectively in the union's programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol lays down principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive technical assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union under eu programmes. this framework shall apply only to union programmes in which the relevant legal acts establishing them provide for the possibility of participation by the republic of lebanon. i also stress that the standard terms set out in the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, should be applied to all the european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which similar protocols are to be concluded. under the protocol, representatives of lebanon may participate, as observers and only for matters concerning their country, in the management committees responsible for monitoring union programmes to which the republic of lebanon contributes financially.
in writing. ‒ the procedure concerns parliament's consent to the conclusion of a protocol to the eu-lebanon association agreement already in force, which will allow lebanon to participate in eu programmes. it is an instrument to help achieve the objectives of the euro-mediterranean agreement and to promote the development and stability of one of the countries bordering the union which plays a key role in the neighbourhood policy. the measure is therefore entirely compatible with our positions. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the european union should provide financial assistance to the lebanese republic: it is a country that is suffering a lot because of the continuous armed conflict that is taking place within the country and this phenomenon is especially affecting the many innocent citizens who live there and have no possibility to move. i therefore believe that it is right for the european union to allocate part of its funds to help ensure the security of citizens living in lebanon. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which lays the foundations for closer cooperation between europe and the lebanese republic by establishing a well-defined cooperation programme.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, within the framework of a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol because i believe that it provides a fundamental financial and technical framework for allowing lebanon to participate in community programmes and, as such, to receive financial assistance from the union. the protocol lays down clear rules on economic, financial and technical cooperation in respect of eu programmes which allow lebanon to participate. this protocol strengthens cooperation between the eu and lebanon, already trading partners and partners in human rights, democracy, political dialogue, cooperation in the fight against terrorism and money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the euromed agreement on the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. our neighbourhood policy allows for privileged relations with the middle east, increasing bilateral trade that is beneficial for all eu member states. the european union is the largest trading partner for lebanon, accounting for around one third of all lebanese trade, and this partnership needs to be maintained and encouraged in order to pursue greater economic integration with mutual commitments and gains.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in union programmes. the objective of the protocol is to define the financial and technical rules enabling the lebanese republic to participate in some of the union's programmes and to consolidate financial, social and cultural cooperation and political dialogue between the two sides of the mediterranean. relations between the eu and lebanon are certainly one of the cornerstones of the foreign policy of the small country in the middle east. the country, which has suffered a dramatic civil war for 16 years, plays an important role in the complex context of the middle east and it is essential to ensure the political, economic and cultural closeness of the european union as a whole in order to facilitate a full democratic transition process and to resist the islamist demands that would further provoke unrest and tensions in a country that is based on a fragile governmental balance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am absolutely in favour of an agreement which includes and gives access to lebanon to all european union programmes. lebanon is an extraordinary country, a key strategic partner, a country that is demonstrating far more strength and resilience than the european union in managing the humanitarian emergency that is affecting and overwhelming it. lebanon is hosting 1.5 million refugees from syria who are living in absolute poverty. the country is not able to provide economic assistance or ensure adequate reception conditions. most refugee camps are spontaneous, there are no facilities. lebanon needs europe and it is together, through effective cooperation, that solutions can be found to a situation of violence which is forcing thousands of people to flee. from syria first to lebanon, then turkey to get to europe, all to escape from isis. it is precisely because we are all involved that cooperation and dialogue must be constant.
in writing. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon contains provisions which must be applied and enforced by all the partner countries of european policy with which these protocols are to be concluded. the aim is to ensure that the financial rules are adequate to enable the republic of lebanon to join certain european union programmes. the programme contained in the protocol therefore lays down the principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation, enabling the republic of lebanon to receive assistance, in particular financial assistance from the union, under these programmes. i think, however, that parliament's recommendation is to be welcomed and adopted, and i therefore express my support for it.
in writing. ‒ given the historical links and shared values underlying the proximity and interdependence between the european union and lebanon, and given the desire of the member states and lebanon to consolidate those links and establish lasting relations based on reciprocity, solidarity, partnership and participation in development, i welcome the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part. lebanon is a strategically important partner for the european union in the middle east. the country is currently experiencing precarious security conditions, as it is embroiled in the syrian civil war, with over one million refugees out of a total population of four million. i support the need to support the european union's commitment to promoting stability, prosperity and security in lebanon, in a continuous dialogue between the parties which will seek to find new forms of cooperation for the achievement of common objectives. relations between the parties shall be based on respect for the democratic principles and fundamental human rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, which is an essential element of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal by mrs mănescu. today, a truly functioning european union neighbourhood policy requires the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes and agencies to partner countries concerned by the policy. i therefore believe that the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement represents a significant step in this direction, since it regulates the financial and technical aspects which allow the lebanese republic to benefit from eu assistance, especially financial assistance, and to participate in union programmes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ among the many measures of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) to promote reform and modernisation in the eu's neighbouring states, there is the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes and agencies to the participation of the partner countries concerned. protocols have been signed with armenia, georgia, israel, jordan, moldova, morocco and ukraine. in december 2013, the republic of lebanon expressed its interest in participating in the wide variety of programmes open to the european neighbourhood policy partner countries. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in union programmes. in accordance with article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council is to obtain the assent of the european parliament before concluding this protocol. i voted in favour of the european parliament's approval so that cooperation between the eu and lebanon can be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement between the european union and the lebanese republic. the agreement is part of the eu's neighbourhood policy, one of the pillars of the eu's relations with third countries. often described as a weak civil power at international level, europe has over the years demonstrated the goodness of its foreign policy, capable of establishing friendly and lasting relations with its neighbours. they can receive european financial assistance in the case of lebanon, subject to the conditions laid down in the european programmes in question. we should remember that lebanon is currently facing a migration crisis much more serious than the european one, with migration flows three times higher than those in europe. the country's geographical location is the destination for millions of syrian refugees who, because of the war, seek shelter there.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is a member of the euro-mediterranean partnership (euromed) which promotes integration and democratic reforms in the 16 countries bordering north africa and the middle east with the european union. since trade relations between lebanon and the eu have been growing by an average of 12.7% since 2008 and considering that the european neighbourhood policy provides for privileged relations with the members of euromed, i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation allowing the lebanese republic to participate in the european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ under article 218 tfeu, parliament must give its consent to the conclusion of association agreements between the eu, member states and third countries. the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon is an indispensable instrument for the implementation of a coherent and innovative neighbourhood policy aimed at strengthening the prosperity, stability and security of the neighbouring countries. this establishes a political dialogue not only on economic issues such as public procurement and state aid, but also on social issues such as respect for human rights, access to services and labour standards. i have voted in favour of this, confident in the value of such political and social cooperation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mănescu report approving a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, and the lebanese republic. this is an important text to take account of the 2004 enlargement of the eu, which led to the accession to the union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, hungary, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic. the agreement strengthens the neighbourhood policy by addressing two requirements: on the one hand, it will meet the 2013 demand of the middle eastern state for closer ties with the union, and on the other hand, it will strengthen the reform processes and the stability of a country which, occupying a strategic position in a highly vulnerable area, is a key ally in the fight against daesh and islamic terrorism.
in writing. ‒ there are some passages in this report which are hardly agreeable and which have led me to express my reservations.
in writing. ‒ it is appropriate that the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, hungary, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic, now fully part of the european union, also participate in the global partnership and/or cooperation agreements that the eu concludes with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation today because i believe that an additional protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement is necessary to take due account of the enlargement of the european union in 2004. this protocol constitutes an adaptation of the association agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part. the adjustment is intended to reflect the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, hungary, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights is an essential element of the association agreement and the protocol. the association agreement and the protocol to it, despite their bilateral nature and the particular characteristics of each partner country, reflect a similar pattern and are thus intended to promote a regular dialogue on political and security matters in order to promote mutual understanding, cooperation, joint initiatives and economic, commercial and financial cooperation. the main aims of the protocol are to promote the progressive liberalisation of trade, sustainable development and investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and lebanon, which is designed to enshrine the accession of a whole series of countries that are now eu members, such as the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, hungary, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland and the slovak republic. the agreement in question is a key instrument of the european neighbourhood policy, the accession of all member states to which is essential for the success of the objectives of cooperation with lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal which simply represents the accession of ten countries of the union to the agreement concluded with the lebanese republic. the negotiations started in 1998, and these countries had not yet become members of the european union. i therefore think it is right that, with accession to the european union, they should also be included in agreements concluded with third countries. i think it is very important to safeguard the security of lebanese citizens who are facing many threats and therefore the countries that are not yet part of the agreement should be included. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the accession of 10 new states to the eu in 2004 also had an impact on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european community and its member states and the republic of lebanon. the european parliament, taking note of this change, has adopted a resolution on the conclusion of the said protocol, to which i intend to give my approval by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ between 1998 and 2005, the european union concluded euro-mediterranean association agreements with nine mediterranean countries to replace the cooperation agreements of the 1970s. the provisions of these association agreements, which govern bilateral relations, vary from one mediterranean partner to another. these agreements provide the necessary framework for political dialogue between the north and the south and serve as a basis for the gradual liberalisation of trade in the mediterranean area, setting the conditions for cooperation in the economic, social and cultural fields between the european union and the partner countries. the aim of these agreements, and in particular of this recommendation with lebanon (whose agreement entered into force on 1 april 2006), is to make the mediterranean a common area of prosperity, peace and stability through economic, social, cultural and financial cooperation and the strengthening of political and security dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the euromed agreement on the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. our neighbourhood policy allows for privileged relations with the middle east, increasing bilateral trade that is beneficial for all eu member states. the european union is the main trading partner for lebanon, covering around one third of all lebanese trade, and this partnership needs to be maintained and encouraged in order to pursue greater economic integration with mutual commitments and gains. i also believe that the protocol which takes account of the enlargement of the european union in 2004 should be ratified.
in writing. - i abstain from the report.
in writing. the purpose of this recommendation appears to be to conclude, on behalf of the eu and the member states, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia, on the other, to take account of their participation in the eu. the protocol defines the main aspects of economic, financial and technical cooperation, which guarantees the possibility of receiving assistance where necessary. i therefore agree to support this recommendation, in view of the reasons which lead parliament to approve it.
in writing. – regarding the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon (2004 enlargement), i voted in favour of it, as the enlargement of the protocol will certainly benefit all parties. since 2004, the successful implementation of the protocol has ensured its necessity and feasibility. the enlargement is a natural consequence and with the accession of more countries, the protocol’s merit will be enlarged, and will eventually yield benefits to all countries.
in writing. ‒ considering that the proposal of my colleague on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, takes account of the accession of several states to the european union and is in accordance with articles 217 and 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i thought it appropriate to express my support. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement with the republic of lebanon, which also takes into account the accession of certain member states of the european union. the euro-mediterranean association agreements are a very important instrument which europe has been using since 1998 to regulate its relations with neighbouring countries. these agreements provide for the appropriate regulation of political dialogue between the north and the south, serve as a basis for the progressive liberalization of trade between the countries concerned and lay down the conditions for cooperation between the parties, not only economic but also social and cultural. the conclusion of this agreement and its extension to eu countries which have not yet acceded to it will help to promote a fruitful and lasting dialogue with lebanon, which has been hit hard by the migrant crisis triggered by the war in neighbouring syria.
in writing. ‒ the protocol on the euro-mediterranean agreement takes account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, hungary, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. since i consider it important that all the current members sign this protocol, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has made it a priority to achieve a euro-mediterranean agreement to promote neighbourhood policies. strengthening not only economic and trade relations but also the stability and security of certain neighbouring states will make it possible to extend the scope of european objectives and strategies. the resolution also seeks to take account of the future association of the republics of bulgaria and romania with the european union in the context of lebanon's accession process. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that cooperation between the eu and the abovementioned countries will extend the application of european safeguards and guarantees, particularly in the field of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mănescu report approving a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, and the lebanese republic. this is an important text to take account of the 2007 enlargement of the eu, which led to the accession of romania and bulgaria. the agreement strengthens the neighbourhood policy by addressing two requirements: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-morocco association agreement and the eu-morocco partnership agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-morocco partnership agreement and the eu-morocco partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ there are some passages in this text which i find hardly agreeable and which have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of bulgaria and the republic of romania, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the global partnership and/or cooperation agreements that the eu concludes with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation today because i consider it necessary, following the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, to adopt the adjustment to the association agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of lebanon, on the other. on 23 october 2006, the council authorised the commission, on behalf of the european community and its member states, to negotiate protocols amending agreements concluded between the european community and its member states and third countries, including the euro-mediterranean agreement in question. the negotiations were delayed, however, by the difficulties encountered by the lebanese government and by the fact that, before giving its agreement in principle to the text, the latter requested clarifications which fell outside the scope of the protocol. during the course of these negotiations it was decided not to add any further trade concessions to the existing association agreement in the fields of agriculture, processed agricultural products and fishery products.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this proposal which only represents the accession of bulgaria and romania to the agreement concluded between the european union and lebanon when the two countries were not yet part of the european union. i believe that the abovementioned countries should, since they have become part of the union, also accede to the agreements concluded by the union with third countries. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the eu, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part. i voted in favour of this resolution, confirming my support for the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon, in the framework of a framework agreement between the european union and the lebanese republic on the participation of the lebanese republic in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the euromed agreement on the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. our neighbourhood policy allows for privileged relations with the middle east, increasing bilateral trade that is beneficial for all eu member states. the european union is the main trading partner for lebanon, covering around one third of all lebanese trade, and this partnership needs to be maintained and encouraged in order to pursue greater economic integration with mutual commitments and gains. i also believe that the protocol which takes account of the enlargement of the european union in 2007, with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, should be ratified.
in writing. - i abstain from the report.
in writing. as in the two previous reports, the purpose of the project under consideration is to define the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of lebanon, on the other, in order to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the said protocol. the latter defines all the aspects of financial, economic and technical cooperation which will be able to cope with the difficulties that will arise. i think that parliament's recommendation should be adopted and i therefore express my support for it.
in writing. – regarding the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and lebanon(accession of bulgaria and romania), i voted in favour of it. the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the protocol will enhance the european community’s cohesion and enlarge its impact, and more opportunities will be provided to these countries as well. the accession is a win-win strategy, and there is no controversy for this implementation.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, since the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union requires that all eu member states be involved in the conclusion of agreements between the eu and third countries, i felt it was my duty to vote in favour. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is the third recommendation aimed at the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and lebanon. in this specific case, the text refers specifically to the extension of the agreement to bulgaria and romania, two countries that joined the eu in 2007. i voted in favour of the recommendation, aware of the importance and value of the association agreements that the european union is concluding in the mediterranean region.
in writing. ‒ the protocol on the euro-mediterranean agreement takes account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. i consider it important that all the current members sign this protocol and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the principality of monaco and the european union signed a taxation agreement in 2005 that puts an end to banking secrecy and provides for the automatic exchange of financial information. the agreement, which relates to financial accounts of residents, will take effect on 1 january 2017. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. given the importance of combating fraud and evasion in european policies, i decided to abstain, hoping for more decisive action in this area.
in writing. ‒ tax cooperation is one of the priorities on the european agenda, a need which led the commission and the government of the principality of monaco to conclude a new agreement on this matter in february this year. the signed text is a significant step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and represents a clear improvement on the previous agreement of 2004, which already guaranteed the application by monaco of measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. i voted in favour of the schwab report because i share the content of the agreement and i believe that it can be a useful tool to strengthen the union's action against tax crimes. the provisions on the exchange of information with monaco will be adapted to the new eu legislation and will be in line with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. tax evasion will be more easily detected and superfluous investigations avoided.
in writing. ‒ the text analysing the amendments to the agreement between the eu and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information is well structured and shareable, so i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of financial information between different political entities is one of the key prerequisites for effectively combating phenomena of transnational scope such as fraud and tax evasion. in this context, the new agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco represents an important instrument to speed up the detection and fight against possible cases of tax fraud. more specifically, the agreement in question, reinforcing the pact already concluded in 2004, establishes the automatic exchange of information concerning interest, dividends, current account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets of citizens and companies of the two respective areas, favouring the application, also within the principality of monaco, of reinforced measures equivalent to those existing today in the european union. for all these reasons, i hope that the agreement will be concluded, ratified and come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the report, i gave my favourable opinion on the signing of the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, which is intended to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and improves on the 2004 agreement which ensured that monaco applied measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the purpose of the arrangement is to ensure that monaco applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework as updated in december 2014, and complies with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. the eu and monaco have agreed that the agreement will enter into force on 1 january 2017, if necessary in the form of provisional application, after completion of their respective internal procedures for conclusion and ratification.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes aims to step up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance by eu citizens. although the eu-monaco agreement is more advanced than similar agreements already concluded by the eu with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino and andorra, there are unfortunately a number of regulatory gaps that can be easily overcome. for these reasons i have decided to abstain during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ in the current economic system based on the absolute mobility of capital, the exchange of information between national authorities is the most effective tool to combat crossborder tax fraud and evasion. following the adoption of the european directive on taxation of savings income and in order to maintain conditions of fair competition between economic operators, the european union signed on 22 february 2016 an agreement with the principality of monaco providing for the introduction of measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive, which will enter into force on 1 january 2017. the information to be exchanged between the competent authorities will include information on current accounts held by non-residents, which will be used to identify those seeking to conceal funds for which taxes have not been paid. i have joined the vote in this house in giving the council its approval for the conclusion of the protocol with the principality of monaco, which i hope will be ratified as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion is a very sensitive issue. the european institutions have been fighting this phenomenon for years, which enriches a few societies at the expense of thousands of citizens every year. agreements on the exchange of financial information with other countries can help to limit this phenomenon, since the taxpayers concerned can be correctly identified. i am therefore pleased with this agreement, which establishes the good relationship between the european union and the principality of monaco and extends the pool of information available to the union for the fight against tax fraud. i believe that this cooperation represents a major step forward in the fight against this phenomenon and therefore i could only vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution approves the ratification of the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of information in tax and financial matters. in my vote in favour of the resolution, i intended to support the eu-munich agreement because it represents an important step forward in the fight against fraud and tax evasion and at the same time constitutes an important improvement on the pre-existing agreement dating back to 2004. the new agreement will facilitate the automatic exchange of information on citizens' accounts between the european union and the principality of monaco from 2018. this will give the principality of monaco tax rules equivalent to those applied in the eu and will limit situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital on which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ with today's positive vote, the european parliament confirms the agreement concluded on 22 february 2016 between the european commission and the government of the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data are based on the principle of mutual recognition of professional qualifications and professional experience. the agreement i have supported today improves cooperation and compliance with tax obligations through the automatic exchange of information between administrative and financial authorities: a measure necessary to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, to assess more precisely the likelihood of tax evasion and to avoid superfluous investigations. i am convinced that the agreement with the principality of monaco, part of a broader eu approach with third countries, is a step forward in increasing transparency in administrative cooperation and confirming the eu's concrete commitment to the fight against tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and is intended to ensure that monaco applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework, thereby complying with the procedures for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the protocol to the eu-munich agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on greater transparency with regard to the automatic exchange of information to prevent fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with obligations in the tax and international fields, as the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement, which will enter into force in 2017, is a significant step forward compared to the 2004 agreement currently in force, as the latter is limited to ensuring the application of equivalent measures by monaco, with regard to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the new agreement improves on the 2004 agreement and is in line with the oecd standard. under the agreement, eu member states and monaco will exchange information on accounts held in their territories by their residents automatically and unconditionally. the new agreement will enable the tax administrations of the member states and monaco to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion and avoid further unnecessary investigations.
in writing. this report analyses the negotiated agreement between the eu and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes and the anticipation of an improvement in international tax obligations. it is a step forward in combating tax evasion and fraud, which were already envisaged in the previous agreement of 2004 which provided for the application by the state of monaco of measures equivalent to those already contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the objective of this report is to deal with situations where the taxpayer seeks to conceal capital derived from income or tax evasion. for these reasons, it is requested that the principality of monaco apply enhanced measures to prevent such omissions. for these reasons, i support mr schwab's report.
in writing. – regarding the eu-monaco agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, i voted in favour of it. this agreement is an imperative and indispensable step for abrogating tax fraud and tax evasion, and will guarantee that monaco’s procedures are identical to the eu framework. the implementation of this will also forestall additional investigations and strengthen cross-border tax laws.
in writing. ‒ whereas the new agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information provides for strengthened measures to combat tax fraud and evasion; whereas the agreement, once it enters into force, would enable national authorities to access the necessary financial information of taxpayers and to monitor the proper observance of tax legislation in their respective territories; the commission has also received comments from the member states and the european parliament on the draft amending budget for the financial year 2014 which was approved by the european parliament on 14 december 2014.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on 22 february 2016 that will make it harder for eu citizens to evade taxes and hide money in monegasque bank accounts. the information to be exchanged will not only cover income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. under that agreement, the eu and monaco will automatically exchange information on the bank accounts of their respective residents, starting in 2018, and for information collected since 1 january 2017. the tax administrations of the member states and monaco will thus be able to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, apply and enforce their tax legislation in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion and avoid further unnecessary investigations. for all these reasons i voted in favour of approving this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. the agreement extends to the principality of monaco european measures on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments contained in directive 2003/48/ec. this directive plays an important role in financial matters. the community-wide rules make it possible to close the gaps in coordination between the member states in the exchange of information, thus responding to the principle of subsidiarity. however, for the measures to be effective, it is necessary that other states in europe, such as the principality of monaco, participate in the effective exchange of information on interest payments on request. without real coordination on financial matters not only between member states but also with other european countries, the eu will continue to suffer from capital flight to third countries, with serious consequences for its economy.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters on 22 february 2016, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. i have decided to support the conclusion of the agreement as it represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. from 2018, the eu and the principality of monaco will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, with the aim of addressing situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. on the basis of that agreement, the eu and the principality of monaco will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents in order to step up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance as from 1 january 2017. the agreement (the last of a package of five agreements, covering switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, andorra and monaco) is an improvement on the status quo but still unsatisfactory. i think that a more comprehensive and thorough agreement could and should have been sought. there are still several regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome and significant gaps in transparency. in general, all the agreements signed are still far from resolving in practice most of the problems with all these countries. that is why i abstained in the vote in the chamber.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in global trade. the request was made in this case for the belgian region of hainaut, where, following a collective redundancy procedure, some 488 workers in a local company were made redundant. in view of the objectives of the fund and the fact that this area has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country, i voted in favour of it, considering it a duty to support young people and families in such a time of crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the outbreak of the international economic crisis has led to a decline in public and private investment in infrastructure within the eu and a considerable increase in steel prices in europe. these events have caused serious disruption to trade and a loss of competitiveness of european construction machinery plants. the plants affected include those of hainaut machinery in the belgian region of hainaut. i voted in favour of the negrescu report because i share the need to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide assistance to the 488 redundant workers and 300 neet young people in the hainaut region. the egf will provide them with a coordinated package of tools, including training and mobility allowances, as well as start-up grants and training, retraining and vocational training programmes.
in writing. ‒ i would like to support the negrescu report calling for the mobilisation of the egf to the value of € 1 824 041 for 488 redundant workers in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector in the hainaut region (belgium). the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument for supporting citizens in this time of crisis, but i believe the eu should do even more to improve its efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new economic and financial crisis of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market, updating their training and providing them with financial support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for workers in the belgian region of hainaut who have suffered serious physical and psychological disorders as a result of these events.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the request was made by belgium in respect of 488 redundancies at caterpillar belgium s.a. in the hainaut region, a company active in the manufacture of machinery and equipment. i note that the hainaut region is facing a difficult labour market situation, with an unemployment rate of 14,5% (5,9% higher than the national average), the loss of 1 236 jobs in 2013 and 1 878 jobs in 2014 in the manufacturing sector, a decrease in job vacancies of 13% since 2012 and a high proportion of under-skilled workers, as more than half of job seekers do not have upper secondary education, as well as high levels of long-term unemployment. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help redundant workers in three companies in the hainaut region of belgium. this region has one of the highest unemployment rates in belgium and the aid is intended to help re-employ 488 workers and to support up to 300 young people who are not in employment and are not in training.
in writing. ‒ many workers and young people living in belgium are currently placed in redundancy in three enterprises and therefore have neither a job nor any education or training. in my view, the belgian state's request should be taken into account. i think it is right to mobilise part of the union's funds to ensure that those who are currently out of work have support in finding a job and appropriate academic and vocational training. it is also necessary that this fund should not be used for social assistance purposes only, because in that case there would be many other situations which would need it, but as long as its use is detailed and justified, i am also in favour of its being used in moderation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of a global economic and financial crisis or as a result of such a crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the european parliament resolution, which i voted in favour of, authorises the request made by belgium at the end of 2015 for a financial contribution from the egf for 488 redundant workers and 300 young people under 25 who are not in employment and not in education or training (neet) in the hainaut region. the resolution notes that the application of belgium is admissible, as redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local, regional and national economy, and authorises the mobilisation of the egf for a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which seeks to help european citizens in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 824 041 requested by belgium in relation to the losses of hainaut machinery, because i believe that these measures represent a striking example of the added value that the eu brings to individual member states. the belgian region of hainaut is in a state of serious crisis, with an unemployment rate almost 6 points higher than the national average, almost 4 000 jobs lost in the manufacturing sector in recent years and a worrying proportion of low-skilled and long-term unemployed. the egf will therefore finance personalised services to help people find jobs, support and integrate them into the labour market, support for start-ups and newly created collective enterprises, and vocational retraining measures, making it possible to implement individual and collective measures to protect redundant workers, with particular attention to workers over the age of 55, who account for 36% of the beneficiaries of the measures. this is an action that is long awaited and which brings direct benefits to the territories, showing the eu's added value.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide support for workers suffering from the consequences of the continuing changes in world trade. the number of redundant workers in the reference period 2014-2015 is very high. in this case, the funds go to the belgian company hainaut machinery and will be used to help redundant or dismissed workers to be re-skilled and find new employment. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, egf /2015/012 be/ - for a total amount of eur 1 824 041 for 488 workers made redundant by carwall s.a., caterpillar belgium s.a. and doosan s.a., companies operating in belgium. these appropriations shall cover in particular measures to support collective projects and the creation of enterprises . it is of paramount importance to apply measures for redundant workers in the areas of: placement, training and job preservation.
in writing. ‒ with the process of globalisation of trade branching out into european productive sectors, alongside relevant socio-economic phenomena such as persistent economic and financial crises, we can only support a proposal to rebalance trade forces and provide support for workers who have been made redundant or whose self-employment has ceased. it mainly includes the use of a fund of an annual amount of eur 150 million combined with legislative and budgetary instruments. in this way, the european union is able to assist all those workers who, because of structural changes in world trade, find themselves having to reintegrate into the labour market. in this context, one example is the intervention in the belgian industrial sector, which has seen its competitiveness in the production of construction machinery steadily decline, with production facilities relocating to asia. in addition to the measures financed by the structural funds, the commission has therefore not only allocated eur 1.8 million to help some 500 workers, but has also promoted state intervention in projects to facilitate job search, provide integrated training and support the creation of new businesses.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to support european workers affected by the global economic crisis or by changes in the structure of world trade in order to assist them in their path to reintegration into employment; whereas belgium applied for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund in 2015; further considers that, as the commission has found, the application, while not complying with the eligibility criteria provided for in the egf regulation, was submitted in accordance with the criteria set out in article 4 (2); finally, given that, given the critical economic and employment situation in the region concerned, the involvement of neets in access to the fund beyond 2017 cannot but be assessed positively and that the guarantees provided by belgium are satisfactory, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. this application relates to the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 824 041 for belgium. it covers 488 redundant workers and up to 300 young people who are not in employment and not in any form of education or training (neet). according to the belgian authorities, the events that caused the redundancies were the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure in the eu and the considerable increase in steel prices in europe, which caused serious disruptions to trade and the loss of competitiveness of european construction machinery plants. i hope that the mobilisation of the egf will prove to be a decisive instrument for supporting these workers and a valuable aid to the communities affected by the crisis in the construction machinery manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument of the european union to provide additional support and help reintegrate into the labour market those workers who have suffered the consequences of the process of economic globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. in this particular case, the request to mobilise the fund was made by belgium, with a view to relocating some 500 workers in the manufacturing sector. in a europe constantly criticized for the austerity policies imposed on its member states, the adjustment fund is a positive note, which is why i voted in favour of the report. it is an opportunity to reflect on the challenges posed by globalisation, which the eu can no longer wait to meet. partial solutions only cushion the problem, but we need to think of long-term solutions that will boost growth and employment in the long term and that are effective, that is, that meet the challenges posed by global trade.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the request to mobilise the egf for belgium to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant by three machinery and equipment manufacturing companies, concentrated in the hainaut region. it should be noted that this request is to be considered as complementary to a first request submitted by belgium in 2014, since the cause of action is to be found in the announcement made by caterpillar belgium s.a. on 23 february 2013 concerning the initiation of a collective redundancy procedure at its production plant located in gosselies. most of the almost 1 400 workers made redundant by the company were considered by the egf in 2014, while today a contribution of eur 1 824 041 (out of a total cost of about 3 million) is requested, to help reintegrate 488 redundant workers and to support up to 300 young people who are not working and not participating in any cycle of education or training. i am in favour of the mobilisation of this fund as a general rule, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help workers affected by industrial crises, but in the absence of viable alternatives i believe it should be supported anyway.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it is good that the iccat plan has been a real success and that our seas, the mediterranean in particular, are now full of bluefin tuna. but i would like to stress that it was the fishermen who made the greatest efforts to respect the limits imposed and it is the fishermen who must now return to fishing. but unfortunately, that is not the case. the increase in quotas as a result of the restocking of bluefin tuna has not affected small-scale fishing at all. it is always the big ship owners who benefit and who can thus exploit a sea which has become rich again and which could therefore once again be the economic backbone of thousands of small fishermen and small family businesses living at sea. the european fisheries policy must therefore take a stand, choose a right direction, and i suggest that of supporting artisanal and traditional fishing, i choose small-scale fishing, operators who for centuries have relied on the sea and who today are crushed by rules and economic interests that have little to do with environmental sustainability.
in writing. ‒ the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) has the power to adopt binding recommendations for the conservation and management of fisheries. among the fish species protected by iccat, bluefin tuna is undoubtedly of central importance, considering the numerous decisions taken since 2006 to limit its catches to a maximum allowable percentage, for example. i therefore voted in favour of it because i believe that such strategies will not only benefit the environment and biodiversity but also ensure sustainable economic development.
in writing. ‒ in 2006, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which includes a series of measures to be followed until 2022. the european union, which is part of this regional fisheries management organisation, is called upon to adopt a series of regulatory instruments to implement the binding decisions adopted there, in particular for the period 2012-2014. the mato report, which i supported with my vote, makes some changes to the commission proposal which aims to implement the iccat recommendations. the text adopted emphasises in particular the key role played by artisanal tuna in the conservation of fish stocks. the recovery plan should encourage a greater use of these traditional means, which not only ensure greater selectivity but also have a very small impact on marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ while the objective of this proposal to include in a regulation all the measures of the bluefin tuna recovery plan adopted between 2012 and 2014, in order to ensure more uniform implementation throughout the eu, is to be welcomed, i must point out that some of the provisions applied have caused an excessive increase in bureaucracy with negative effects on the activities of the fleets. i have therefore decided to abstain and not to support this text in its entirety.
in writing. ‒ as we know, the european union, together with the member states, is a contracting party to iccat and in 2014, at the iccat annual assembly, we welcomed the news of positive data on the good health status of bluefin tuna and a 20% increase in the quotas allocated to contracting states. the quota for bluefin tuna is set by icat, but the distribution criteria are decided by individual member countries at their discretion. unfortunately, in many cases only a few shipowners benefit from these quotas, while small-scale fishermen are largely excluded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught. in the agreement reached with the council we make a clear call for the protection of artisanal and traditional fisheries in the allocation of bluefin tuna quotas.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which aims to include in a single regulation all the measures of the bluefin tuna recovery plan adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) between 2012 and 2014, in order to ensure their uniform and effective implementation throughout the eu. uniform application should ensure a level playing field for all operators in the tuna fisheries, including in particular operators from third countries. i would stress that all the efforts of eu fishermen and the restrictions imposed on them would be in vain if different rules were applied to foreign fleets. eu operators should not be penalised by the imposition of stricter measures than those agreed, because the european commission has failed to impose such measures in the iccat negotiations. finally, we must raise the question of the absence of the european parliament in these international negotiations. i would stress that the implementation of the recommendations of the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), such as iccat, must remain a joint responsibility of the european parliament and the council under the ordinary procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which is a measure to implement the recent recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas in the european regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ unfair and illegal fishing practices are a threat to marine ecosystems, which have put the survival of fish species at risk, in particular bluefin tuna. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) has issued recommendations and measures which, in order to become operational within the eu, need to be transposed into eu law in order to ensure uniform and effective implementation throughout the european union. hence the need for the regulation we voted in plenary which includes all the measures of the icatt reconstitution plan adopted between 2012 and 2014. the various technical measures envisaged: from live bluefin tuna transfer and caging operations to the use of stereoscopic cameras for bluefin tuna stock estimation. the measures implemented in previous years are beginning to bear fruit and fish stocks are gradually being rebuilt. this year, european fleets have benefited from a 20% increase in their quota compared to the previous year, i.e. 9 372 tonnes of eligible catches for the eu in 2015. all legislative instruments must be supported to protect fisheries resources and to enable our seas to be repopulated. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal because it is simply an evolution of a regulation already implemented in 2006. the regulation provided for a reduction in the fishing of bluefin tuna, which was thought to be in danger of being overfished. in this light, i am pleased to note that the quantity of tuna caught has decreased considerably since 2006, by more than half. however, such a drastic reduction means fewer jobs, less food available to many countries that actually need it. therefore, since the quantity of bluefin tuna has developed very positively in recent years, i agree to moderately increase its catch so that there is a good balance between the safety of the species and the possibility of trade in the species by small entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ this is a positive report to ensure the recovery and preservation of bluefin tuna stocks. the mediterranean fishermen, especially the small ones, have suffered in recent years because of the restrictions imposed and because of the imbalance in the allocation of quotas, which have benefited the large companies and the large shipowners, putting many small companies in difficulty and often forcing them to give up. this policy must be overturned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not affected by the current situation. it is true that the distribution criteria are decided by the member states, but the commission and the institutions can do a lot, especially by introducing criteria and mechanisms for the protection and safeguarding of bluefin tuna quotas in favour of small-scale artisanal fishing. i believe we owe it to the many families and small fishermen who, day after day, contribute to the protection of our seas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe that the conservation and recovery of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean is essential. to do this, all measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), to which the eu is a contracting party, need to be applied in a uniform and effective way throughout the eu through a specific regulation. in particular, i welcome the existence of important technical measures, such as the use of stereoscopic cameras for estimating bluefin tuna and quantities released at sea, and catch reporting obligations.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because it creates excessive obligations and bureaucracy that could have been avoided.
in writing. ‒ respect for the diversity of fisheries and the sustainability of our seas are unquestioned priorities in european fisheries, environment and sea policies. these objectives are even more sensitive when they concern endangered species and are of particular relevance to the fauna, gastronomy and cultural heritage of the mediterranean basin, the heart of european civilization. i therefore voted strongly in favour of parliament's position on this regulation, whereby we support the proposal to rationalise and harmonise all measures of the restructuring plan adopted between 2012 and 2014 in order to ensure their uniform and effective implementation throughout the eu.
in writing. the proposal under consideration aims to bring together in a single regulation all the measures that were adopted up to 2014 in order to ensure their implementation throughout the european union. it provides for the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean (bft). the measures provided for in the plan adopted in 2006 by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), which will expire in 2022, had in fact required necessary but costly sacrifices. in view of the gradual recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, catches were then increased sustainably, with an annual increase of 20%, which means that the quantity caught by italy rose from 2 302.8 to 2 752 tonnes. the conservation of the ecosystem and the increase in the reserve, while at the same time keeping employment levels in mind, was the objective we set ourselves and which we can now say we have achieved. thanks to eu environmental policies and the efforts of fishermen to limit catches of bluefin tuna, we are now in a position to raise fishing levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean and repealing regulation (ec) no 302/2009. the proposal aims to transpose into community law the measures contained in the multiannual plan for the recovery of atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna adopted by iccat. this plan aims to rebuild the bluefin tuna stock by reducing the total allowable catch and selectivity of catches for biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ given the need to protect bluefin tuna from overexploitation in the atlantic and the importance of cooperating to maintain the consumption of this species at maximum sustainable levels, i welcome the proposal to incorporate into union law all the amendments to the recovery plan adopted by iccat in 2012, 2013 and 2014 that have not yet been transposed. in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which is expected to be completed by 2022. to restore the stock, the plan provides for a progressive reduction in the total allowable catch (tac), restrictions on fishing activity in certain zones and periods, a new minimum size, measures applicable to sport and recreational fishing activities, measures concerning fishing and farming capacity and a strengthening of the iccat joint international inspection programme. since 2008, the bluefin tuna biomass has shown a markedly positive trend. in the light of these improvements, i consider it important to support the decision of iccat to bring forward to 2016 the tac foreseen for 2017, which would still be well below the tac in force before the entry into force of the recovery plan.
in writing. ‒ i think that mr mato's proposal should be voted in favour. the role of the european union in iccat reflects the particular attention that the union pays to the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks. the results achieved so far far far exceed the expectations and objectives initially set. i therefore support the proposal of my colleague to include in a regulation all the measures adopted between 2012 and 2014 as this would allow for their uniform and effective implementation in all eu member states. i also think it is appropriate to stress that the commission's proposal to implement future amendments to the restructuring plan by means of delegated acts risks further marginalizing the role of the european parliament in such an important issue at international level. i therefore feel obliged to vote in favour of the proposal as formulated by my colleague.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the positive development of bluefin tuna stocks in recent years, the international commission for the conservation of tunas (iccat) decided to increase the maximum allowable catch limits by 20% for the next three years (2015 to 2017), as scientific data showed that stocks are at optimal levels of abundance. in mid-december 2015, the eu council of ministers responsible for fisheries and agriculture finally decided on the 20% increase and proceeded to allocate the community quota among the member states concerned. in addition, the iccat recommendations take into account the specificities of the different gear used for tuna fishing. in this context, the role of artisanal tuna vessels, such as traditional tuna vessels, is important for the conservation of stocks. i believe that in implementing the recovery plan the european union should pay particular attention to these traditional tuna traps, which contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks by virtue of their considerable selectivity. in addition, such gears have a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna, as did the ppe group. the frequent use of intensive fishing practices has severely affected the numbers of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. to deal with this problem, iccat, the regional fisheries management organisation, has developed a multiannual plan to restore bluefin tuna in the areas mentioned. needless to say, without action at community level the problem will be almost insoluble. i would also like to point out that the decisive intervention of mr mato, of the ppe group, made it possible to open negotiations with the council on the text under consideration and to approve an amendment in favour of small-scale artisanal fishing, a sector which is also increasingly in decline in the italian economy and which the european parliament is trying to protect.
in writing. ‒ the new bluefin tuna recovery plan aims to transpose into eu law some of the measures adopted by iccat to improve the management of this important species in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the new regulation, which i supported, recognises the need to pay more attention to craft-based equipment, such as tuna boats, which have a low impact on marine ecosystems, a high level of selectivity and contribute to job creation. the proposal includes technical measures, such as those concerning the transfer and caging of live bluefin tuna, measures involving the use of stereoscopic cameras, provisions on the declaration of catches and the implementation of the iccat regional observation programme.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, the european union has launched a cod management plan to ensure the sustainable development of fisheries. last march, however, the council signed the new multiannual fisheries pact for the baltic sea, not only updating the rules for the management of certain fish species, but above all introducing new concepts of sustainability. the ecosystem approach, which emphasises the biological interaction between species, is accompanied by the provision of a maximum sustainable yield, which imposes a maximum allowable catch. i therefore voted in favour, considering that protecting the biodiversity of our seas and the environment is without doubt one of the european priorities.
in writing. ‒ the baltic sea is a highly sensitive ecosystem, a virtually closed water basin in which the mutual relationships between the various marine species are of paramount importance. the wałęsa report, which i supported in parliament today, improves the commission's proposal, while at the same time stressing the importance of the multiannual plan presented. the multi-species management of cod, herring and sprat stocks is a major step forward in fisheries management and a model for future such plans. the regionalised approach envisaged by the reform of the common fisheries policy should be strengthened, while allowing for a timely response to those sudden changes affecting the state of the stocks of the species concerned. ensuring flexibility in the plan is crucial and therefore a review of the plan in three years' time is required.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the proposal is to establish a framework for the 'multi-species' management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea in areas where fishing is primarily directed at these three species. although i agree with the 'multi-species' approach of this plan, i cannot fully support this text, as it does not provide sufficient information on the impact it will have on the economies of the areas concerned, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ cod, herring and sprat are important fisheries in the baltic sea. the scientific advice of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) indicates that for some of these stocks the current exploitation rates are not compatible with the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield as provided for by the cfp. while a management plan has been in place for the baltic cod stocks since 2007, the herring and sprat stocks are not yet subject to a management plan. this plan is the first to be approved since the entry into force of the cfp and is an example to follow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to express my satisfaction that the member states and the european parliament have reached a valid agreement on the new multiannual plan for the baltic. a management plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea has already been in place since 2008. however, it is widely considered to be inadequate in relation to the current situation of cod stocks and the fisheries that depend on them. given the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the baltic sea stocks, i think it is desirable to be able to adapt the patterns and rates of exploitation of these stocks in the light of the progress made in the scientific understanding of the interactions and changes in environmental conditions. this would give the plan much needed flexibility. i also stress the importance of ensuring that the new plan draws on the input of those who know the region best as they will be able to adapt measures at regional level to the specificities of the fisheries concerned.
in writing. ‒ the new multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea includes new concepts such as the ecosystem approach and biological interaction between fish species. this is an important innovation, since for the first time the fact that an increase in the natural prey of predators will correspond to a catch of predators is taken into account in the calculation of catchable quotas. the plan as a whole is much better than the previous measures and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the baltic sea is an area with a very high fishing stock, particularly cod, herring and sprat. i think it is important that a control plan is created because biological interactions and environmental effects have a strong influence on fisheries. i agree with this proposal that aims to establish a framework for the multispecies management of the stocks of the three species mentioned above. in my view, this instrument can bring many benefits both in recognising the interactions between regulated species and in understanding the influence of cod on herring and sprat stocks and vice versa. better information on these issues will certainly improve the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks, ensure the stability of fishing opportunities and, as a result, bring many benefits to fishermen. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text is the result of a long process and represents a compromise that was not easy to find. this is the first multiannual plan to take account of the interactions between species, to ensure balanced and sustainable exploitation of fisheries and better economic conditions for fishermen in the long term. thanks to parliament, strong safeguard measures have been secured to keep stocks at sustainable levels and to ensure a rapid return to acceptable levels in the event of depletion. the management plan must enter into force immediately, as stocks are declining, with negative consequences also for fishermen. a model for sustainable fisheries management, in ecological, economic and social terms, is the only approach capable of avoiding cyclical crises in the long term, which, in addition to serious environmental damage, have repercussions on the sector, putting at risk the jobs and safety of thousands of families.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal. a multispecies management approach is certainly more advantageous and effective than a single-species management approach. this vision has the merit of aiming at a balanced and sustainable management of stocks, and ensuring a level of fishing that ensures a stable income for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from this report because the european union should give member states more autonomy in fisheries matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007, as it is the first real implementation plan of the reform of the common fisheries policy and can serve as a model for future negotiations. the difficulties of the approach to the common fisheries policy arise from the need to find a compromise between the two opposing requirements of the sustainability of fish stocks on the one hand and the necessary flexibility for operators in the sector and member states in applying the rules on the conservation of fish species on the other. the compromise reached between parliament and the council in the trilogue is a good agreement, which will allow the parties concerned to assess the practical effects and consequences of the measures and their transferability to other species. in particular, i am in favour of including in the plan forecasts relating to the regionalisation and economic, social and environmental sustainability of fishing activities.
in writing. environmental effects and biological interactions have an effect on marine stocks and therefore it is necessary to implement rules for the protection of certain species. in fact, in 2014 the commission published a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this proposal, which was agreed after months of negotiations, is now intended to regulate a framework for the management of the above stocks in the seas where they are most exploited, and sees a transition to a new adaptive management. finally, agreement was reached on the first multiannual plan under the new cfp and, for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the commission's proposal for a sustainable fishery for the stocks in the baltic sea.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea. the aim of the proposal is to establish a multi-species stock plan which is much more effective than the management of a single species. this plan allows for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensures the stability of fishing opportunities and the livelihoods of fishermen, while ensuring that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, interactions between species and other aspects of the ecosystem and fishing activities.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the european commission's multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, whereas the three species account for 94% of the catches in the baltic sea in recent years and whereas, although a cod stock management plan exists, it is not adequate to the current situation; whereas, with regard to the other two species, there is a lack of legislation and regulation and that this deficiency must necessarily be corrected, also in the light of the protection of the ecosystem; i therefore consider that the drawing up of a single plan, including other fish species and based on up-to-date scientific studies, would be an appropriate way of filling the regulatory gap and ensuring greater protection of the stocks, and i therefore consider it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a management plan covering several species in the baltic sea is more effective than management of a single species, because it allows for a balanced and sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and guarantees the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, the livelihoods of fishermen. in addition, there are good reasons for maintaining certain rules already in force, which protect cod stocks during the breeding season and protect small-scale artisanal fisheries. i therefore voted in favour of the multiannual plan in question and hope that such a solution will allow for a more flexible approach in the annual fixing of fishing opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr walesa (epp) on the proposal for a regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the text presented to the plenary was the result of a series of negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission (the 'trilogue') which resulted in a compromise on a controversial issue, namely the maximum acceptable level of mortality caused by fishing activities. the baltic sea stock plan is the first of its kind to be adopted under the new common fisheries policy; it ensures that fishing activities in the area concerned are environmentally sound and economically sustainable. for these reasons the plan will be used as a model for other areas, first of all the north sea and the atlantic. i think that these are very good reasons for supporting the text presented in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea. the aim of the regulation is to allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these fish species, which together account for 94% of total catches. the multi-species management plan established by this regulation requires that more account be taken of the different ecological functions and roles of the species covered by the plan. as this is the first such plan adopted under the new cfp, i hope that it will serve as a model or test bed for future multiannual plans for the management of fisheries in other european seas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because, as we know, reality moves much faster than the rules and regulations must adapt quickly to the challenges and, above all, to the new balances in society. schengen, erasmus, mobility between countries have helped to create and spread an increasing number of european couples - we can call them that - families who live in one member state, have houses in another, inherit property in yet another. it is a society which, fortunately, has had the courage to break down barriers and which therefore needs new rules today. the european union must support these european families, above all by facilitating dialogue between member states and by clearly deciding on jurisdiction in matters of property regimes, in order to give couples certainty and clarity as to which court has jurisdiction.
in writing. ‒ given the globalised and international character of modern society, family law must necessarily adapt to the new needs of citizens. to this end, the commission has, following the adoption of the enhanced cooperation procedure, made a new proposal on matrimonial property regimes. in summary, it is intended to regulate and clarify, in the case of crossborder decisions, which court has jurisdiction, which rule is applicable and, finally, how the judgment should be recognised and enforced. legal certainty, especially in the management of family matters, is a fundamental right of citizens. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cavada report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes. following the deadlock in the negotiations, the launch of enhanced cooperation led to a proposal that was much more in line with the indications expressed by parliament in 2013. the text contains important innovations, since it clearly defines which court has jurisdiction to rule on questions of matrimonial property regimes. a major step forward is the principle of the unity of the applicable law, which provides that the law of matrimonial property regimes applies to all property held in the context of the union, wherever it may be. in general terms, this new regulation is an effective response to overcome the confusion and legal difficulties, which is why i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ although this report is well structured and can be shared, there are still some passages which could open up the door to future criticism and exploitation which prevent me from fully supporting this text. i therefore voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation, which is part of enhanced cooperation involving the vast majority of member states and which aims to clarify and better regulate, within the countries concerned, jurisdiction, the applicable law and the procedures for the recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property regimes, is an important step forward which will facilitate access to rights and simplify life for a large number of european citizens. the new proposal for a regulation would allow for greater flexibility (for example in the choice of the applicable law or in the facilitation of the circulation of official documents) which would meet the needs, in particular, of those couples composed of nationals from different member states, while clarifying certain legal situations which are currently unclear and thus providing greater legal certainty. this is further progress towards an increasingly effective circulation of acts and decisions between member states, which will strengthen the creation of a homogeneous, harmonised and functional legal area capable of meeting the challenge of increased mobility and of promoting the development of effective european citizenship.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the chamber, i have voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes. the italian supreme court, in confirming the adoption of the homosexual couple, has now stated that this 'does not in the abstract create a conflict of interest between the biological parent and the minor adopting, but requires that any conflict be established in practice by the court', and has thus established principles of law which, as they are applicable to domestic law, raise questions, increasingly important, also within the law of international couples of the european union. i therefore support the rapporteur's words and have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposed regulation, as it provides greater clarity and sets out specific rules for the identification of the competent court and the applicable law in cases of crossborder decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ despite the progress made in the process of european integration, millions of citizens linked by marriage or by an international registered partnership face practical problems in managing their assets. it is often difficult for such couples to know which court has jurisdiction and which property regime applies to their property situation, particularly in the event of separation or succession. in the field of family law, the council acts unanimously. however, in the specific case, 18 member states requested an enhanced cooperation procedure, as it was not possible to reach unanimous approval of the proposals. i joined the house in voting in favour of the council authorising enhanced cooperation on matrimonial property regimes for international couples, so as to provide the states which have acceded to european legislation with a clear and comprehensive legal framework on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property regimes which will make it easier for many international couples to resolve their problems in this area.
in writing. ‒ international couples are currently still too insecure about their property regimes. too often, spouses find unclear legislative blocks that extend waiting times excessively, and this can lead to various problems for couples. i think that greater protection of the rights of those in this situation is needed and this proposal is aimed at putting an end to the many cases of confusion and legal difficulties. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution approves the commission proposal on matrimonial property regimes. in particular, it defines jurisdiction and the court of jurisdiction, the applicable law and how to resolve legislative gaps, the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. i am voting in favour of this resolution in support of these measures which limit the confusion and legal uncertainty. greater clarity of the rules on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interest of european citizens and international couples.
in writing. - i abstain from the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes in transnational situations because i believe it is essential to complete the process started during the last legislature and which has been blocked in the council due to the reticence of some member states. the freedom of movement and residence of individuals, and therefore of couples, requires a clear and binding regulatory framework at european level in matters of jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition of decisions, as is the case in matters of divorce, parentage and maintenance obligations. unfortunately, however, the reluctance of some member states still prevents a general regulation and european recognition of marriages contracted in another member state. the choice of enhanced cooperation, which i fully support, is necessary to advance this important legislation in the interests of european citizens and particularly couples, who are increasingly made up of spouses of different nationalities. i hope therefore that the council will act swiftly and put an end to the many cases of confusion and legal difficulties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes. this regulation does not interfere with the laws of the member states on registered partnerships, but it determines which court has jurisdiction in the context of registered partnerships. this will be a useful tool for international couples, as it will give the couple the possibility to choose which law, and which state, to refer to. the regulation also lays down the necessary instruments to give international couples access to the necessary legal information. our society is becoming increasingly multicultural, with extraterritorial marriage unions, and that is why we must protect their rights in the best possible way.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes. after the adoption of the enhanced cooperation procedure for the regulation of international couples, it became necessary to regulate some important procedural aspects, such as jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property. the regulation is a valid instrument for all international unions, and in this way the autonomy of family law has been safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the progress made so far with the proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes; whereas the proposal covers decisions on the property effects of registered partnerships; whereas the regulation is a useful instrument in matters of matrimonial property regimes and does not prejudice the competences of the member states in this field; finally, as the proposal contains all the information previously provided by the european parliament and is aimed at protecting international couples, i support the proposal of my colleague and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ from today, life in europe will be easier for international couples. the adoption of this regulation will ensure legal certainty in matters of matrimonial property regimes, in particular as regards jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions. parliament had already adopted these regulations during the previous parliamentary term. finally, the council has also taken a position and many member states are showing the right level of cooperation. i hope that other countries will soon join the enhanced cooperation procedure. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is fully safeguarded. the regulation is concerned solely with providing certainty on procedural matters: the court of justice has jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal against the judgment of the court of first instance. an important step forward is the affirmation of the principle of the unity of the applicable law, according to which the law of matrimonial property regimes applies to all the assets held in the context of the marriage, thus putting an end to the division of the property regime of the couple. the regulation, by putting an end to many cases of confusion and legal uncertainty, is clearly in the interest of international couples and the smooth functioning of the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ international couples, currently present in europe, number around 16 million. such a rate is a symptom of the profound changes that have characterized civil society, making a change in family law a top priority. in the management of their assets, international couples often encounter unforeseen and unintended consequences, due to the differences between the various legal systems. in the absence of unanimous agreement on this matter, 17 member states have requested and obtained an enhanced cooperation procedure aimed at clarifying and harmonising the legislation on property effects for registered unions. i therefore voted in favour, because i believe that a review of the legislation in this area, with a view to harmonizing it, will make life easier for european citizens and families.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cavada report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. following the deadlock in the negotiations, the launch of enhanced cooperation led to a proposal that was much more in line with the indications expressed by parliament in 2013. a major step forward is the principle of the unity of the applicable law, which provides that the law of matrimonial property regimes applies to all property held in the context of the union, wherever it may be. the text also introduces important innovations in the area of recognition, enforceability and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships, by taking over the very precise provisions of regulation no 650/2012. in general terms, this new regulation is an effective response to overcome the confusion and legal difficulties, which is why i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ although this is a purely procedural vote, i believe that there are areas of the report which could open up future criticisms, and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation, which is part of enhanced cooperation involving the vast majority of member states and which aims to clarify and better regulate the powers, the applicable law and the procedures for the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships in the member states concerned, is an important step forward which will facilitate access to rights and simplify life for a large number of european citizens. the new proposal for a regulation would allow for greater flexibility (for example in the choice of the applicable law or in the facilitation of the circulation of official documents) which would meet the needs, in particular, of those couples composed of nationals from different member states, while clarifying certain legal situations which are currently unclear and thus providing greater legal certainty. this is further progress towards an increasingly effective circulation of acts and decisions between member states, capable of strengthening the creation of a homogeneous, harmonised and functional legal area capable of responding to the challenge of increased mobility and of promoting the development of effective european citizenship.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the chamber, i have voted in favour of the report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships on the following grounds: close discussion on a careful and inclusive regulation, which affirms in a uniform manner and with respect for the choices of the member states, the sensitive issues concerning the capacity of partners, the existence, validity or recognition of a union, maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased partner; the great step forward is the principle of the unity of the applicable law which provides that the law of matrimonial property regimes applies to all assets held in the context of the union, wherever they are located. i therefore support the report and the need for uniform regulations which will really help to develop family issues.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the measure as it provides for crossborder rules on the property consequences of registered partnerships and is therefore in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ the diversity of family law in the member states means that, if couples from two different states decide to legalise their union through alternative forms to marriage, there could be serious problems with the recognition and cross-border enforceability of such a union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution approves the commission proposal on the capital effects of registered partnerships. in particular, it defines the jurisdiction and the court of jurisdiction, the applicable law and how to resolve legislative gaps, the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property effects of registered unions. i am voting in favour of this resolution in support of these measures which limit the confusion and legal uncertainty. greater clarity of the rules on the property effects of registered partnerships is undoubtedly in the interest of european citizens and international couples.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has repeatedly called on the other european institutions, but also on the member states, in its non-legislative resolutions, to guarantee equal rights for couples, both heterosexual and homosexual, who opt for so-called civil unions. the full mutual recognition of the property rights of registered partnerships within the european union is therefore a fundamental step towards the recognition of the much-needed equality of rights and is also indispensable in order to reduce discriminatory legal and administrative obstacles for citizens exercising their right to free movement. the proposal for a regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships will, it seems, put an end to many cases of confusion and legal difficulties and will consequently guarantee greater legal certainty. as already mentioned, this is a concrete commitment by the union to equality and equal rights. a concrete commitment that we cannot help but share.
in writing. - i abstain from the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships between persons belonging to different member states, because i believe that we need to move forward on the path of extension and granting of rights in the eu. the principle of equal treatment for married couples and registered partnerships is a principle which i cannot abandon. it is therefore essential that the negotiation of the regulatory framework for matrimonial property regimes should be accompanied by the negotiation of the regulatory framework for registered partnerships. this is also an issue on which parliament has a clear and firm position, which is unfortunately hampered by the reticence and myopia of some member states. i therefore strongly support the choice of enhanced cooperation among a majority of member states, because i believe that it is necessary to go ahead with this important legislation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate what i said in my previous statement and welcome the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. this is an important measure aimed at regulating the property effects of relationships between couples, which need clarity, simplification and legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of mr cavada's proposal, given the scope of the regulation under consideration. while this regulation concerns the property effects of registered partnerships, jurisdiction and the applicable law as well as the recognition and enforcement of decisions, it seeks to safeguard national competences in matters of family law, while ensuring that the principle of the unity of the law applicable to all property within the territory of the union is respected. i am convinced that the proposal as it stands should be welcomed, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the major step forward in this new regulation is the principle of the unity of the applicable law, which provides that the law on the property effects of a registered partnership applies to all assets held within the partnership, wherever they are located. this therefore puts an end to the division of the legal regime of the couple's property. the regulation allows the choice of law applicable to the property effects of registered partnerships, but is limited by the requirement of being a national or habitual resident of the state concerned. the difference with the regulation on matrimonial property regimes is that registered partners can choose the law of the state of registration. in the absence of a choice, the law applicable is that of the place of registration. i voted in favour of the new regulation because it is in the interest of international couples and because it puts an end to many cases of confusion and legal difficulties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because it is right that the alarm should be raised in brussels, followed immediately by concrete action by europe in response to what is happening in the congo. tens of thousands of displaced people, thousands of deaths, atrocious violence against women and children: for years now, violence has been raging in the eastern part of the congo, with the regular army being kept in check and unable to move, and the army is busy running and profiting from other businesses that are much more profitable than fighting the armed groups that have forced 35,000 families to leave their homes, the fortunate families who have managed to survive. the fact that there are also un peacekeepers on the ground, on a mission, and that they have not been able to stop the massacres is very worrying. the situation in the congo, in addition to creating unjust civilian casualties, risks discrediting the un and the entire international community. that is why european policy must be stronger and more consistent. no migration compact will be possible without first pacifying africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no mercy for those who are guilty of these heinous crimes. the european parliament has shown great courage in calling for the massacres which are devastating entire areas in eastern congo to be brought to light. a spiral of violence that does not stop in time must be stopped only by a much more authoritative voice, by timely intervention. if it is not stopped, it risks triggering the first outbreaks of genocide and destabilizing the entire great lakes region. the slaughter that has been taking place in this region for years, mr president, is an essential characteristic of the people who live in these lands. today we do not resign ourselves to shame and from today this parliament is with the people of beni, lubero and butembo.
in writing. ‒ human rights violations, war crimes and crimes against humanity are just some of the violence that unfortunately continues to be perpetrated on congolese territory. the north-eastern part of the country in particular continues to be the scene of armed groups, with reports of massacres, recruitment of minors and sexual violence. the resolution calls on the international community to launch a thorough investigation, to provide targeted and effective sanctions and to put an end to the indifference which has characterized the international community up to now. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that action to combat the repeated violations of human rights is both a duty and a priority.
in writing. ‒ the democratic republic of congo has long been confronted with a situation of considerable gravity, particularly in the north-east of the country. violence, massacres, disappearances and repeated violations of the most basic human rights are now a sad daily reality. these are episodes linked to clashes between regional and national politics, the exploitation of ethnic tensions and the exploitation of resources. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i support, strongly calls for the cessation of hostilities in the african country and for a thorough, independent and transparent investigation into the massacres, including the active involvement of the government and the un forces on the ground. the peace process must include, as one of its first steps, the holding of free elections, as provided for in the constitution, at the end of the presidential term. the european union has a duty to promote dialogue among african union countries to prevent further destabilisation in the great lakes region and must provide for the possibility of targeted sanctions, including travel bans and asset freezes, against those responsible for the massacres in eastern congo.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the massacres which have been going on for more than 20 years now in eastern congo, and i believe that the eu should act firmly to support these people and bring justice and democracy back to this country.
in writing. ‒ the escalation of violence in eastern congo, with the forced recruitment of children by armed groups and the continuing massacres in large parts of the country, cannot be ignored. this is a humanitarian emergency which cannot be ignored if we do not want another genocide in a region such as the great lakes, which has long been the centre of ethnic and territorial tensions, but also the subject of conflicts linked to the exploitation of the many natural resources, and especially mineral resources, of which the area is extremely rich. in the light of this, the european parliament has today called for an end to the hostilities and violence still ongoing, for the restoration of a state of law and order and for the parties to the conflict to engage in dialogue and seek a peaceful solution. in the resolution adopted today we also affirmed the need to bring to justice those responsible for the human rights violations perpetrated, in order to counteract the climate of substantial inertia and impunity which has fostered the commission of further crimes. it is important that the international community should launch a thorough investigation as soon as possible, so that we can clarify and establish all the responsibilities involved.
in writing. ‒ in the democratic republic of congo there is a risk of a new genocide. the people of beni province in eastern congo are victims of massacres and grave persecutions, and there is still a cloak of silence over them which we europeans have a political and moral duty to lift. we call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to launch an international inquiry into these massacres involving the united nations and the international criminal court; that the eu send a special representative to the kivu area to prepare an urgent report to be presented to the european parliament and the highest european institutions; the european union is calling on the united kingdom and france to take action in the un security council to secure a binding resolution to stop these massacres as soon as possible. over two thousand families were killed and at least as many were lost to history: the international community, present with the un monusco mission, cannot stand by idly. if we do not intervene, the region will be destabilized with new innocent victims and new waves of migrants fleeing to more prosperous and safe countries.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the massacres in eastern congo because the situation in the country has worrisomely deteriorated in recent months, news reports are reporting that blood has once again been spilled in one area and this grave situation could have consequences for the entire region. the population is the victim of massacres, documented in the reports of the international organizations operating in the area, provoked by an invasion of armed gangs who are carrying out a real genocide. missionaries and religious, together with peace network for congo, are calling for an international investigation into what is happening in north kivu, the region bordering rwanda. the international community and the european union must act now more than ever to put an end to the massacres. the call of the volunteer associations in the area for a serious and neutral international inquiry to put an end to this tragedy must be heeded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution strongly condemning and calling for justice in relation to the recent massacres in eastern congo.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned about the worsening situation in the democratic republic of congo. there is no security in the country, too many people are killed, massacred or forced to join armed groups without any choice. i think this is wrong and immoral and although there are armed forces trying to contain this phenomenon, they are not enough. although hundreds of thousands of people managed to flee the country, thousands more were brutally killed. i believe it is necessary for the european union and all its member states to provide assistance to the congo so that this horrible situation can be brought to an end as soon as possible.
in writing. the northeastern part of congo is currently the scene of massacres, recruitment of minors into armed groups, sexual violence and arbitrary occupation of villages. this situation has seriously undermined the minimum level of security of citizens, compounded by the inability or lack of political will on the part of the congolese authorities to bring those responsible to justice, with the national government and the international community remaining silent. add to this a humanitarian crisis with 7.5 million people in need of assistance, 1.5 million people displaced by ongoing conflict and 400,000 refugees. i voted in favour of this resolution because it brings international attention to the tragic situation in eastern congo and raises a number of demands which i believe are important in order to restore peace and justice in the country. these include the call for the swift and active resumption of cooperation between monusco and national armed forces, in particular to ensure a greater operational capacity for the protection of civilians; the conduct of a transparent investigation into the massacres committed in cooperation with the international community; the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. the inhumane treatment in the congo is the result of an unhealthy interplay between politics, ethnicity and resource exploitation. europe first must commit to the prospect of transparent and credible presidential elections by 2016 in order to eliminate further political tensions. the european union must commit itself to an international inquiry that will help to identify those responsible, those complicit in and those who have instigated these crimes against humanity and the violations of human rights suffered by the people of this country.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament should send a strong message of condemnation of the massacres and crimes against humanity that continue to rage in eastern congo and support with the same conviction the motion for a resolution calling for the next presidential elections to be held in a free, fair and transparent manner so that stability and the rebuilding of the rule of law can have an impact on the process of democratic reconstruction in the country and the criminal activities of armed groups can be tackled.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament on the massacres in eastern congo. the proposal condemns the acts of violence that the communities in the region have suffered. it expresses solidarity with these populations, whose rights have been violated for years and are causing a division in the population, and stresses the urgency of focusing on the situation of women and children, who are the most vulnerable groups. it also called for an international inquiry to be carried out to find those responsible, for all necessary measures to be taken to put an end to the genocide and for compensation to be paid to the victims of the massacres. the commission also stressed that the conflict could only be ended by the implementation of a regulation on the management of natural resources and called for swift cooperation with the council in ratifying these rules. to help promote a more united and equitable world vote in favour of parliament's proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the democratic republic of congo, armed groups are increasingly operating in the northeastern part of the country, and the number of massacres, rapes and recruitment of minors is increasing. in this regard, humanitarian workers estimate that 7.5 million people are currently in need of assistance. i cannot therefore fail to approve the request in the document under consideration to neutralise these groups and, at the same time, to carry out a thorough analysis of the subject. i support the view of the group to which i belong, and i hope that the civilian population will be better protected. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ reports of massacres and violence from the northeast of the democratic republic of congo are increasingly alarming. the killing and abduction of thousands of people, the burning of villages, health centres and schools, sexual violence against women and children, and the forced recruitment of minors continue to take place in a climate of impunity and general indifference on the part of the media, the national government and international organisations. i join the call in the resolution for all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms and open a dialogue for a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict. i call on the un contingent, monusco, to make full use of its mandate to protect the civilian population. finally, i urge the european union to adopt coherent policies in the region, particularly as regards trade in arms and raw materials, with a view to promoting peace, stability, development and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the democratic republic of congo is worrying. several armed groups recruit and use children and there are numerous reports of massacres in the country. we are facing an escalation of violence and an alarming humanitarian situation. it is therefore necessary to put an end to the violence and promote dialogue for a peaceful solution, involving the international community in organising an emergency meeting to ensure transparency in the elections, which will be crucial for the long-term stability and development of the country. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe, s&d, ecr, alde, greens and efdd groups on the massacres in eastern congo. parliament expressed its concern at the recent events in the country, which has become the scene, especially in the north-east, of massacres against the civilian population by factions belonging to different ethnic groups. faced with the growing violence, the total denial of human rights and the resulting political instability, the agencies in the area have sounded the alarm. it is worth noting that the european union is a major player in the region, as it is one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to the democratic republic of congo. eu-funded cooperation programmes in the country focus mainly on infrastructure and better governance, while through csdp missions the eu aims at strengthening the security sector. in this state of alarm, i support more decisive action in the country to put an end to the current massacres and to restore a climate of peace and security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i firmly believe that most of the problems facing europe today and most of the difficulties facing europe can be overcome through education and culture. religious radicalism, intolerance, violence and populism are all troubling situations which can be overcome by a strong european culture developed in schools, universities, cultural centres and community centres. it's not just schools and teachers that are involved. today, training is also 'non-formal'. the european union has created the skills passport to give greater value to voluntary activities and associations. for those who are unable to continue their studies, in particular, every positive experience of commitment and growth is a training opportunity which, if recognised, leads to the possibility of finding employment. the european union must support culture, education and training in every way to give our young people greater opportunities to grow up as european citizens and as professionals able to compete on an equal footing.
in writing. ‒ community cooperation in education and training (et2020) aims to develop a strategic framework to support european citizens in realising their educational and personal potential. to this end, four main objectives have been identified, ranging from structural changes to social cohesion policies to the digitalisation of skills. the report does not, however, in any way examine the causes of the serious problems and inefficiencies which characterize the education sector. austerity policies must not in any way damage the education and training of european citizens. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the great challenges of our time are closely linked to the theme of education and training. between 2011 and 2014, the average unemployment rate in the european union of 28 increased by almost 13% among young people aged 25-29 who had completed tertiary education. this is an alarming fact which clearly highlights one of the crucial problems of contemporary reality. the krasnodębski report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training is an important contribution to analysing the areas for improvement in the union's commitment to education and training. the key theme is to strengthen the recalibration of et2020, aiming to combine employability with the promotion of social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic skills. the different measures to be taken, ranging from a proper analysis of the results of the bologna process and a correction of the dangerous trends towards policies of cuts in education, include paying attention to the next european skills agenda. this instrument will have to address not only economic and employment challenges but also issues related to subject knowledge, academic achievement and, above all, critical thinking.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report was originally intended to deal with priorities in the field of education and training, but instead it was distorted and used to push forward in a biased way the issues of welcoming migrants at any cost and the open door policy without distinction between migrants and refugees. for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the if 2020 strategic framework is an important framework for promoting cooperation in education and training, aimed at providing answers and solutions to common current challenges such as skills needs, the need to support inclusive, lifelong and quality learning, fostering innovation and developing digital skills. the resolution adopted today by the european parliament, which i supported, aims to give greater strength and effectiveness to the strategic framework by re-ordering its priority areas of action and increasing the added value of initiatives linked to it. i also welcomed the fact that, as requested by the socialist and democratic group, the text adopted in plenary puts more emphasis on the need to promote social inclusion in the training process by ensuring access to education and mobility opportunities at all stages of learning, with particular regard to the economically and socially most disadvantaged groups.
in writing. ‒ young europeans are facing common challenges that require common responses. the threat of radicalisation raises the urgency of improving educational prospects across all communities. european states must work together to intensify joint efforts to reduce school dropout, combat social exclusion and support the diversification of pupils in classrooms across europe. adapting the training offered to the real needs of the labour market and the people who work there, together with a greater focus on social inclusion, are the key to freeing young people from the recruiters of organised crime and terrorism, in order to build a stronger and safer future for hundreds of thousands of young europeans who are too often treated as secondary citizens by the training institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that we need to increase the efficiency of education and training systems and the overall levels of skills and competences by better linking the world of work and education. one point in the report on which i would like to focus is support for educators, which is identified as one of the new priority areas of the strategic framework on education and training 2020. the quality of teacher training and continuing professional development programmes are unfortunately still lagging behind the increase in the variety of skills required for teaching. european cooperation under the 'if 2020' takes the form of exchanges of information and experience on problems common to the education and training systems of european countries. such exchanges shall include peer learning, regular monitoring and reporting and common reference tools. in the light of the acceleration of intra-european mobility and the ongoing refugee crisis, particular attention should be paid to the needs of different types of students, such as those belonging to ethnic or religious minorities, from low-income families or immigrants.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on the evaluation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. the initiative report contains a number of shortcomings, failing to identify the main causes of the worsening problems in the education and training sectors in the eu and failing to propose any solutions to the problems of quality, accessibility and socio-economic discrimination in education.
in writing. ‒ education and training are the pillars of personal growth and the development of societies. in the current context, in which the economic crisis has led to high unemployment rates, support for education and training must be given in order to support the recovery of economic growth, including the adaptation of occupational profiles to the new market needs. the evaluation of the education and training strategic framework 2020 found that early school leaving and early education leave remain very high in eu countries and that prevention needs to be strengthened. quality and effectiveness of training should remain the targets to be achieved by 2020, but alongside this there is also a need for urgent measures at national and european level in the field of education and training for adult asylum seekers in europe. education remains the key to integration: if national systems are not able to meet this challenge, the risk of social exclusion will be high in the coming years. i voted in favour of the document because i believe that if europe is to achieve its ambition of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, it will have to invest more in these areas.
in writing. education of citizens, especially children, is a topic of fundamental importance to me. having a cultured, educated community is a very important strength for europe. not only from the point of view of work skills, which is of considerable importance, but also from the point of view of society, since providing a good quality education is an important value in developing ethical and civic virtues and in strengthening respect for the democratic principles on which europe is founded. i am convinced that the union must attach great importance to this issue and i believe that more investment is needed in this area than is currently being done. for these reasons, which i consider to be of fundamental importance, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ education and training are a fundamental human right and a public good accessible to all, and they certainly contribute to economic development and social cohesion in europe. the direct consequences of insufficient investment in this area are poverty, social exclusion, inequalities at all levels. i therefore support this resolution which recognises the need for a more coordinated and effective strategy to tackle the longstanding problems of quality, access and socioeconomic discrimination in education and training. the community instrument for cooperation in education and training (if2020) already provides important guidance to guide the efforts and capacities of the eu and its member states. however, given the different socioeconomic situations and educational traditions of the member states, uniform prescriptive approaches at european level should be avoided and each member state should instead encourage students to achieve and exploit their academic achievements and specific skills in the labour market. the resolution takes account of both levels: national specificities and the need for a coordinated approach at european level to strengthen social convergence, promote active citizenship through formal and informal education and prevent radicalisation. this approach must also include refugees, migrants and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ education and training are essential tools for the formation of responsible citizens with a strong sense of identity, a deep knowledge of their culture and heritage and who recognise and honour shared european values. however, despite an increase in the number of people accessing formal education over the past decade, europe still has unprecedented levels of youth unemployment, which also affects graduates. i voted in favour of the if 2020 strategy because it promotes a leap in quality in european cooperation on the quality of education. each national education system must be able to support the implementation of opportunities for our young people, through exchanges of information and experience on issues common to the education and training systems of european countries. furthermore, lifelong learning and mobility must become a reality for our countries, with vocational education and training systems more responsive to change and the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it does not deal with the subject adequately and partially; it's too politicized and instrumentalised.
in writing. ‒ it is not possible to build a pathway to economic growth and employment without promoting a strategic framework for cooperation between member states on education and training. i firmly believe that the main responsibility we as members of parliament have during our term of office is to choose the priorities to support, so that the objectives we set out to achieve here in europe can enter our homes and change the lives of our citizens and our children. i believe that investing in education that is innovative and open to digital content and tools, equitable and accessible, inclusive, more work-oriented, non-discriminatory and based on lifelong learning is not only necessary but urgent. learning to re-read mobility as an opportunity and not as a complication will mean that the new generations will be able to integrate more easily, feel like global citizens and thus multiply their possibilities by broadening their perspectives as active citizens. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mr zdzisław krasnodębski.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (ef 2020) because i believe that education is first and foremost a public good and that references to 'education and training' should include both formal and informal forms and should not only aim to meet the needs of the labour market, but should constitute an intrinsic value, as they contribute to the personal development and growth of citizens. as stated in the 2014 annual growth survey, member states in terms of spending need to find ways to safeguard or promote longer-term investment in education, research, innovation, therefore it is essential to invest in the modernisation of education and training systems, including lifelong learning. however, many member states, whose public budgets are under heavy pressure from budgetary rules, have implemented substantial cuts in education and training spending. nevertheless, there is no doubt that the funds available and future investment in training and education must be made more efficient as a factor affecting productivity, competitiveness and growth, as stated in the recent special report of the european court of auditors.
in writing. despite the increase in the number of people obtaining tertiary education, the percentage of young unemployed has unfortunately also increased. the eu has therefore put in place the if2020 framework to promote the education and training of young people needed to acquire the skills they need to become competitive workers. the commission has presented an evaluation of this framework and has made a number of recommendations aimed at optimising its effectiveness. the aim is to define the role of informal governance bodies, to include independent experts, to promote dialogue and to improve communication and cooperation between the commission, the member states and educational organisations. at a time when our young people are in such a delicate situation, it is necessary to analyse the policies needed to help create a more prosperous future. for these reasons, i welcome the evaluation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. the overall evaluation exercise of the if 2020 framework, conducted by the commission in collaboration with the member states, addresses the issue of the complex if 2020 landscape. the objective of the report is to enhance the role of informal governance bodies and to involve independent experts in the field of training in the work of the if 2020 working groups and other bodies, in order to define common policy instruments at european level and urgent measures at national and european level in the field of education and training.
in writing. ‒ in order to have people with high job skills, education and training development needs to be supported. similarly, recognition of the importance of educator training underlines the key role educators play in the learning process. unfortunately, unemployment in europe is still very high, especially among young graduates. the recent refugee crisis has also brought new challenges, as education is seen as the key to integrating these people into the host community. it is up to the european union's policy and the actions of individual states to address the challenges in education and training. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation.
in writing. ‒ education and training are key to providing citizens with the knowledge and skills needed to become competitive and innovative workers. moreover, they play a very important role in forming open-minded human beings and responsible citizens. it is therefore good that if 2020 has included social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic skills among its objectives, alongside employment needs. the transposition by the commission and the council of the recommendations emerging from the overall evaluation of the if 2020 framework will increase its effectiveness. in addition to the definition of the mandates of the new generation of working groups, the role of informal governance bodies is being strengthened and feedback loops are being established to improve communication between the different levels. the inclusion of support for educators and the special attention to the needs of the most disadvantaged students, such as those belonging to ethnic or religious minorities, children from low-income families or children of immigrants, as among the priorities of the programme is also very positive. a major challenge for national systems will also be to help integrate the many newly arrived refugees. i am in favour of the work done on if 2020 and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ education and training are important in helping people to acquire the professional knowledge and skills they need to become competitive and innovative workers. these elements could also play an important role in forming curious and responsible european citizens with a strong sense of identity, a deep knowledge of their culture and their common heritage, able to recognise and safeguard the shared european values. the joint report should welcome the fact that the paris declaration of the ministers of education of 17 march 2015 has been reflected in the joint report. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that education, together with culture, is the key to promoting integration and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on rationalisation in the context of european cooperation in education and training. although education is a competence of the member states, the european union is addressing challenges common to national education and training systems, and it is to meet these challenges that the if 2020 strategy has been formulated. in particular, if 2020 is a forum where actors of all kinds, from european commission officials to civil society representatives, exchange information on good practices, winning solutions and advice. in 2014, the commission carried out an assessment of the existing framework, identifying weaknesses and solutions to be implemented, which are the subject of the text voted in plenary. the importance of if 2020 and more generally of european education programmes is crucial for the future of our young people: more and more students are participating in european mobility programmes, acquiring knowledge and skills that give them a significant advantage on the labour market, as numerous field research has shown. these experiences not only enrich the curriculum, but also allow young people to live fully as european citizens, representing a time of growth unparalleled.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the need and importance of interaction and cooperation between member states in the field of education and training. the et2020 programme is concerned with supporting the education and training system of each individual member state and has four objectives: to promote mobility for educational purposes, to improve the quality and effectiveness of institutions and training, to promote social cohesion and active citizenship and to encourage creativity and innovation in the spirit of enterprise. the erasmus mobility programme, for example, is a major result of et2020: in 2013-2014 alone, it enabled 272 000 students and 57 500 professionals to benefit from cultural and training experiences in different european institutions. i hope that european cooperation in this field will continue, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that renewable energies are the future of europe, not only because of their environmental value but also because they give economic impetus to the regions. there are regions, such as my own, sicily, southern italy and europe, which could become experimental hubs for the development of renewable energy and could even aspire to energy self-sufficiency, but they have very high pollution levels and we are still talking about oil. clearly, the development of clean energy in europe requires strong political will. first of all, we must help the regions to spend the structural funds, because under the current cohesion policy the share of renewable energy funds is only 1.4%. and then we have to channel and direct the huge funds for renewable energy to those regions which are rich in resources but are weaker on the planning and planning fronts. renewable energy is the key to growth, to creating cleaner cities, a healthier environment and a better europe.
in writing. ‒ the european union is committed to developing environmentally friendly policies and strategies, based on a sustainable energy model. climate change, social and security policies and, finally, the renewal of production systems have highlighted the need to put renewable energies at the heart of eu priorities. the new 2030 strategy aims to create a decentralised model that can deliver the energy transition with improved outcomes in terms of independence, efficiency and sustainability. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has long been on the path towards an energy transition to renewable energy. this is a medium- and long-term vision of great strategic value, which aims not only to promote the achievement of international objectives, including those established at the recent cop21, but above all to ensure that the old continent achieves true energy independence based on a sustainable system geared to the future. my support for the lópez bermejo report is based on the conviction that it is essential to ensure the success of the path being taken, and to avoid leaving it to the sole discretion of the market. administrative procedures need to be simplified, legislation strengthened to create a more integrated energy market, mechanisms for sharing good national energy policies should be encouraged and investment in electricity storage systems should be encouraged. the targets set for 2020 must be met, while establishing a long-term regulatory framework for achieving the union's 2050 climate targets.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is unbalanced and unshared, so i have decided not to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energy is a key factor in achieving our climate and energy goals and a key element in our decarbonisation journey. the european union is on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets overall, but further efforts are needed by member states that have fallen further behind. such efforts are all the more necessary in the light of the gradual decrease in the costs of such energy, which, together with technological advances in production and storage, has made renewable energy increasingly competitive and cost-effective. it is therefore important that support for these energy sources continues beyond 2020, maintaining the effective combination of binding targets and national action plans that have enabled us to achieve tangible results so far, in an ambitious and effective regulatory framework that is able to send appropriate and long-term signals to investors. the commission, for its part, must continue to actively monitor progress in the field of renewables, promoting transparency, consistency and the absence of technical obstacles to the development of these key energies.
in writing. ‒ renewable energy is the future of the eu's long-term development. we must implement economic policies that make them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model. we have a historic task: to combat climate change and reduce our dependence on the rest of the world's energy resources to restructure our production model and create quality jobs, as well as safeguard our territory and the future of our descendants. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is also a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone: we need to understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental crises. we must prevent energy oligopolies from defining the future of energy for europe, but instead ensure an integrated, efficient and clean european energy model by 2050.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to ensure that the eu's renewable energy target of 20% of total consumption by 2020 is met by all eu member states. the commission should ensure the full implementation of the 2020 renewable energy directive and should present an ambitious regulatory framework for the period after 2020. in this context, i stress the need for a stable long-term regulatory framework, including renewable energy targets at national and eu level, to achieve the eu's long-term climate goals (2050). i would remind you that the european parliament's request for binding targets of at least 30% of energy from renewable sources in energy consumption must be implemented by means of national targets in order to provide the necessary security for investors and legal certainty. i also believe that, in the light of the recent cop 21 agreement, considerably higher ambition with clear targets is desirable in order to ensure that the eu is a world leader in renewables.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on progress on renewable energy. the report addresses a critical review of the framework resulting from directive 2009/28/ec and provides insights to use the decentralised and democratized energy model to implement the energy transition and derive the related results in terms of independence, efficiency and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ although fossil fuels are still economically irreplaceable, the development of renewable energy is strategic for the future of a europe that has no oil but has sun and wind. progress so far is encouraging and citizens, if properly incentivised, respond positively by showing openness to new technologies. however, it is important that these incentives do not overburden communities and that they are always used in a transparent way so that companies know what each technology costs, including in terms of taxes and public money that could also be used for other purposes.
in writing. ‒ the target of 20% of total renewable energy consumption by 2020 is implemented differently in different member states. this is why i support the call for full implementation of the legislation to achieve the objectives in a uniform way across the continent. at the same time, i support the re-launch of the 2050 targets towards a sovereign, efficient and clean energy model. we have to be ambitious. we have a duty and a responsibility to combat climate change by reducing our dependence on resources that we are forced to import from the rest of the world. we must increasingly ensure that sustainable and indigenous energy production is a key element in the recovery of our economy, in conjunction with job creation. the eu renewable energy directive is a legal instrument that needs to be supported and implemented, with binding targets and clear rules. but often it's not enough. we need to act at a lower level, raising awareness and stimulating the active contribution of our citizens and consumers, through campaigns and incentives that can make them truly protagonists of a season of renewed sustainability on our continent.
in writing. ‒ the need to move away from fossil fuel dependence is urgent, to facilitate widespread self-production and energy self-sufficiency. the eu's commitment to reducing co2 emissions, but also the need to drastically reduce pollutants such as heavy metals and dioxins in air, water and soil, should require all eu states to put effective measures into practice in a timely manner. it is our health and our environment that is at stake, but also our financial resources, given the health and social costs of an environment devastated by our dependence on fossil fuels like oil and its derivatives, coal and gas. a rapid transition requires research, innovation and the effective and efficient use of all available european funds for energy efficiency and renewable energy production. and we must avoid the brake on structural reforms which in effect translate into austerity policies or senseless cuts. in short, europe's cities and regions need to achieve a paradigm shift, but to do so, there must be clear and binding commitments to rely on a truly renewable energy mix. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on progress on renewable energy because, in addition to containing a number of important recommendations for the new 2030 renewable energy directive, it refers to 'prosumers', a revolutionary new model of energy production and consumption that sees citizens fully involved in cooperative and self-production models. an important step towards the energy transition referred to by the 5 star movement, a decentralised and democratic energy model that guarantees independence, efficiency and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the development of renewable energy requires a different approach that makes it the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model. our fundamental responsibility as representatives of the european people is to fight climate change, a historic duty that we must not neglect. it is also becoming essential to reduce dependence on the rest of the world's energy resources if we are to structure our production model and generate quality jobs, as well as drive the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, which is confusing and over-liberalising risks weakening sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the fight against climate change is made up of concrete commitments that the eu and its member states must follow up on year after year. it is therefore very important to monitor progress in renewables, which are one of the key areas for achieving the targets set in paris at cop21. unfortunately, some countries are still far behind in this respect. i therefore share the call in the report we are voting on today for the commission to increase its overall political commitment, precisely to monitor the action of the states and above all to introduce concrete instruments - for example, an ad hoc financial mechanism - aimed at reducing the cost of capital and the risks associated with renewable energy projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on progress in renewable energy because i believe that the development of renewable energy requires a new approach that makes it the fundamental pillar of the eu's energy model. in the face of climate change, the eu must reduce its dependence on the rest of the world's energy resources if it is to truly structure its production model and create quality jobs, as well as drive the development of strategic technologies for the transition to a sustainable energy production model, which is a social priority. this transition cannot be left to the market alone, but must be regulated by the eu in such a way that unfair competition between eu member states is not created, which would result in harm to citizens in the form of social and environmental externalities. i believe that the current combination of binding national targets, national renewable energy action plans and biennial monitoring has been the driving force behind the development of renewable energy capacity in the member states. a regulatory framework that respects the principle of proportionality, recognising a key role for local authorities, communities, households and individuals in the energy transition, is needed.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the progress report on renewable energy. while the progress made by member states in achieving their national renewable energy targets attests to the merits of the union's renewable energy policy, it is necessary to further encourage member states that have been slower to step up their efforts in order to ensure the achievement of ambitious 2030 energy and climate targets that allow for a secure inflow of investment and financing in the renewable energy sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. ‒ in the face of a steady rise in global temperature to 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels, due to the disproportionate use of non-renewable and non-sustainable energy resources, we warmly welcome the proposal. the development of renewable energy sources through directive 2009/28/ec has significantly reduced production costs and thus fostered eu technological leadership that will create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020. therefore, it is of key importance not only to increase cooperation and coordination between member states but above all to combine binding national action plans with common objectives, verified by biennial controls, in order to meet the commitments made under the paris agreement (cop 21). this is possible through powerful economic incentives, such as the implementation of tax breaks and the promotion of public investment, in order to facilitate a transition to a fully self-sustaining, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. in order to achieve this, we also believe that it is necessary to support research and development activities and to provide support to member states to take additional measures in order to achieve these ambitious objectives in time.
in writing. ‒ the fight against climate change and the search for alternative methods to reduce the eu's dependence on external energy sources are addressed in the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec). the process of transforming the energy mix of the member states is creating a favourable environment for the development of the renewable energy sector. however, i do acknowledge the concerns expressed in the report and support what has been said about the need to solve these problems. i declare that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a political, economic, social and environmental priority for the european union. the renewable energy directive has proven to be an effective tool to start the process of transforming the energy mix of its member states, with binding targets and clear rules for supervision and control. we are close to achieving the 2020 targets and now it is necessary to send a strong political signal for the continuation of this strategy by setting targets significantly higher than those proposed by the council. the report states that by 2030, at least 30% of energy must come from renewable sources. the commission is proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet adopted the euro by a factor of two. at the same time, the report stresses the need for these objectives to be pursued by all member states as laid down in the old directive, and not just at european level as the new council proposal would suggest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report promotes the development of renewables as a fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ one of our key responsibilities is to combat climate change and reduce our dependence on energy from the rest of the world if we are to generate quality jobs and drive the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition. the eu has provided a legal instrument to achieve these objectives with the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec). this legal instrument has created a favourable environment for the development of the renewable energy sector and has contributed to the growth of a diverse and diversified sector. i believe that the next revision of the renewable energy directive should include measures to promote and encourage investment in these areas. a more integrated market is essential for the development of renewable energy and the reduction of energy costs. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy, a subject which is receiving a lot of attention at european level and on which the commission is expected to present a new proposal by the end of 2016, following the communication published in june last year. the text discussed in the itre committee, of which i am a member, contains many strengths necessary to achieve the 2020 energy targets. these include cost-effectiveness and competitiveness of renewable energy, safeguarding national competences for the energy mix and promoting diversification of energy supply sources. it goes without saying that renewables represent an increasingly tangible future in the energy landscape, with an increasingly renewable-oriented union. however, the project of a 100% renewable energy economy seems to me frankly unrealistic, especially in the short term. that is why i believe that gas is a resource that should not be underestimated in the eu's energy needs.
in writing. ‒ this report puts renewable energy at the heart of the european union's energy model and we therefore voted in favour. we have won many of our demands in the report, such as the call for a more ambitious target of at least 30% renewable energy to be broken down into individual national targets, and the creation of a sound and transparent governance system that values the participation of citizens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. the commission has also asked the member states to develop a community energy strategy and to define a more favourable investment environment for self-production and self-consumption, together with the creation of single support offices. in the transport sector, we asked for and were granted an evaluation of the potential of technologies based on trolley-trucks.
in writing. this resolution, which i voted for, argues that in order to reduce the eu's dependence on energy imports, it is necessary to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency policies. this is intended to meet the challenges posed by climate change by promoting a renewal of the production model but also ensuring energy security as a social priority. the eu's renewable energy target of 20% of total consumption by 2020 has already been achieved by many eu member states. others, however, are behind schedule and must do more. the report examines the eu's progress on renewable energy and sets out the ambitious targets for the next revision of the renewable energy directive. the importance of self-production and self-consumption of energy is emphasised, as the role of citizens and consumers is crucial for the achievement of energy efficiency objectives. the emphasis is therefore on building renovation, district heating and cooling systems. it also calls for the eu to invest in programmes that promote new technical advances in energy efficiency. i believe that the creation of a more integrated market is essential for the development of renewable energy and the reduction of energy costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on energy efficiency because this has been a crucial year for reflection and for setting new environmental, energy and climate objectives. it was the year of cop21, which set ambitious targets for an environment that is clearly suffering. yet it seems that europe is not able to meet its target of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. so let's ask ourselves what's not working. i believe that the problem facing europe in the field of the environment and energy is also the rigidity of its rules and bureaucracy, which are in sharp contrast to the economic crisis europe is facing at the same time. the objectives of energy policy, like those of environmental policy and many others, cannot be effective without the flexibility needed to adapt them to changes in the economic landscape and to global transformations. the way forward is to achieve energy efficiency and to focus on green economy as the flywheel for the economy.
in writing. ‒ in line with european priorities, the 2012 energy efficiency directive set out a set of binding measures to achieve 20% energy efficiency by 2020. unfortunately, the text has not been fully implemented by all member states, due to industrial and economic interests, which often undermine the objectives of such policies. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the directive, considering it a priority to protect the environment and the health of citizens through better cooperation between the member states in the energy sector.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the pieper report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. the issues of energy saving and efficiency are crucial not only for the protection of the environment and the climate, in line with the objectives set at cop21 in paris, but also for the development of european competitiveness and for an increase in employment. the 2012 energy efficiency directive and the 2010 buildings directive have been key tools in providing important innovative impetus to member states' systems of obligations and incentives. however, many countries have not implemented all the provisions in this document. the achievement of the 20% savings target is at risk and therefore efforts must be accelerated and all obstacles to investment removed. states must make full use of the subsidy system. the commission must take additional action to ensure a coherent climate and energy policy by establishing appropriate rules. the text calls on the eu to develop a long-term strategy for reducing energy demand, extending and making more ambitious the targets set by the current directives which expire in 2020.
in writing. ‒ the pieper report is biased and not acceptable. it laments the lack of implementation of the energy efficiency directive in the member states, but deliberately never mentions the real cause of this lack of implementation by the states: the eu-imposed stability pact regime, which prevents the investments needed to comply with the legislation. that is why i did not vote for this text.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the objectives set at cop21 in paris and the actions needed to achieve a resilient energy union with an effective and far-sighted climate policy, energy efficiency is clearly a key issue. nevertheless, the results achieved so far under the energy efficiency directive appear to be insufficient, with a considerable gap in actual implementation between the various european countries. some member states have not complied, or at least not fully, with their obligations to establish internal rules to promote energy efficiency, resulting in a very heterogeneous overall picture which indicates some difficulty in achieving the 2020 targets. this trend must certainly change, and that is what the european parliament has called for today. if the european union is to continue to lead on climate action, while increasing the energy security of its citizens and reducing its dependence on external supplies, a stronger and more coordinated effort at european level is needed, based on binding targets and not just for 2020, but for 2030 and beyond, as the socialist and democratic group has called for.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because the references to ambitious and binding targets at european and national level were not removed during the vote on the amendments in plenary. we want the european union to set binding targets of 40% for energy efficiency and at least 30% for renewables, always translated into specific national targets. and the role of citizens in the broader energy transition towards a decentralised renewable energy generation model will need to be enhanced. it is crucial that the energy union really puts citizens at the centre and thus allows all europeans to escape the constraints and balances of energy geopolitics.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's leading territorial entity in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which have fallen by 23% over the last 20 years. european businesses and citizens have started to grow, creating jobs and generating tax revenues in an environmentally sustainable way. the eu and its member states are therefore on the right track, but need to do more to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, such as the reduction of co2 emissions by 20%, the increase in the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption by 20%, and the improvement of energy efficiency by 20%. the commission and parliament should support efforts to achieve the objectives, in particular by working to reduce red tape in the energy sector and to reduce high price levels for medium-sized businesses and households: the calming effects of energy savings are countered by national specific tax burdens and a complex reporting procedure. energy efficiency is an important advance: the implementation of the directive will be crucial for saving citizens and businesses, as well as for achieving the europe 2020 objectives. reducing waste and improving energy efficiency are the cornerstones of a sustainable future.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to ensure that the eu's energy efficiency legislation is fully implemented and accelerated and that the eu's key target of 20% energy savings by 2020 is achieved. i also reiterate parliament's call for binding targets to be introduced to ensure that renewable energy accounts for at least 30% of total energy consumption by 2030. more investment is needed in information and support programmes in the member states, which could help increase participation in the current mandatory local energy efficiency schemes, as well as promote new technical advances in areas such as cooling, lighting and insulation. in fact, the role of consumers is crucial for the achievement of energy efficiency targets, for example through the renovation of buildings, district heating and cooling systems. i would stress that energy-efficient renovation of buildings should be a priority, so as to help energy-poor residents. finally, it is essential to achieve our energy efficiency objectives by moving away from fossil fuels and phasing out subsidies for these fuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. the report takes account of the substantial failure of the directive and the failure of many member states to implement it. i agree with the proposals for better coordination and efficiency of the various community legislative provisions and with the reference to the contribution that energy efficiency policies should make to the achievement of the employment and innovation objectives.
in writing. ‒ i regretfully voted against this proposal, which i thought was partly useful for the union. i regret to say this because i agree with better energy savings by businesses, but i am not at all in favour of a 40% mandatory saving. in addition to energy savings, what the european union needs is better efficiency in the sector, but we cannot ask companies to be more efficient if we impose such a high savings rate on them. in doing so we put entrepreneurs who will be forced to reduce industrial production considerably and workers who will be potentially unemployed at serious risk. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ overall, member states are on track to meet the 20-20-20 targets. this positive development was largely due to the results of the incentive system for lower emissions, which could trigger investment in more efficient technologies. as is often the case, however, the picture is not uniform and there are strong pockets of resistance where targets are at risk. this is generally due to the greater or lesser impact of the economic crisis, but also to the greater or lesser capacity to involve businesses and citizens who, only where they perceive a direct interest in efficiency, are proactive in applying the rules. we have to go in two directions. from a regulatory point of view, we must safeguard the gains made, which could be lost if we do not act immediately by revising the directive to extend its provisions beyond 2030. secondly, member states in difficulty need to act to maximise the availability and sensitivity of consumers and businesses towards the achievement of the targets. without their support and involvement, the rules will only be perceived as punitive and restrictive and this will jeopardise the objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, as the data show, greenhouse gas emissions within the european union fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. the commission is therefore moving towards the 2020 targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption and a 20% improvement in energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it does not take account of the facts.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency is a key objective for achieving the environmental sustainability targets solemnly set in paris a few months ago, which are in line with the eu's longstanding international commitments. it is therefore very important to be able to monitor the implementation of one of the most important directives in european environmental legislation today. the report we are voting on today acknowledges the positive effect that the directive has had but at the same time acknowledges the obstacles that still exist to its full implementation. i therefore join the report's call, in particular, for local authorities to make greater efforts in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) because i believe it is very important to send a signal to member states to continue to commit themselves to the eu's energy efficiency targets 20% savings by 2020 and to fully implement existing community legislation and in a more timely manner. eu greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp increased by 46%. with less and less impact on the climate, businesses and citizens are generating growth, jobs and tax revenue. the european union is on track to meet its 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption by 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. this development was largely due to the positive results of the ets. it not only provides incentives for lower emissions, but also triggers investment in more energy-efficient technologies. the achievement of the objectives is certainly also partly dependent on the economic and financial crisis in some countries.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of new, renewable and more efficient energy sources in a global context of major climate challenges, we welcome the commission's proposal. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives, including the implementation of the energy union strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives. following the eu's participation in the paris climate conference, we committed ourselves to reducing europe's energy insecurity, exemplified by an annual expenditure of 358 billion on energy imports, over the medium term. this will be achieved through increased efficiency, particularly in the building sector, which accounts for almost half of final energy consumption and 36% of co2 emissions, so that there is a 40% energy decarbonisation by 2030 and a total decarbonisation by 2050, which will bring about a significant improvement in living standards and an overall increase in employment. we therefore suggest to the commission a revised text in which priority is given to the 2030 energy targets and more ambitious directives against european energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ it is well known that the european union has committed itself to achieving the target of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total consumption by 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. given that greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by more than 20% between 1990 and 2014, while gdp has grown by almost twice, i can assume that the above objectives are achievable. however, while i find the analysis of my colleague useful, i do not think it is entirely in line with my own thinking. therefore, while i support the call to the commission to implement measures to manage a coherent climate and energy policy, i do not feel that i support the views expressed in this document and i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the eu target of 20% energy efficiency by 2020 was ambitious but achievable. if we do, it will only be because of the economic and industrial crisis that has hit the eu over the last eight years. some sectors, such as construction and transport, require greater efforts. the commission should guide the member states in the implementation of the directive and respond promptly with reasoned requests for adaptation of the national plans. in the amendments tabled in the envi committee i had expressed the need to set a binding target of 40% energy efficiency by 2030 to be implemented through national targets and asked for binding energy efficiency targets to be set also for 2050 in line with the ambitious commitments set out in the paris agreement to keep the global temperature increase below 1.5°c. i have also repeatedly expressed my concern about the increasing pollution caused by domestic heating systems powered by solid biomass, which produce large quantities of fine dust, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and dioxins which are extremely harmful to air quality and therefore harmful to human health. the implementation of efficient and environmentally friendly alternative solutions must be in synergy with the transition to a low-carbon circular economy. my vote today reflects that position.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency and saving are important factors for protecting the environment and climate, for strengthening economic competitiveness and job creation, for security of supply and for tackling energy poverty. this report on the implementation of the 2012 energy efficiency directive recognises that we are behind the 2020 targets and at the same time calls for a much more ambitious approach for 2030, reiterating parliament's position on the need for a 40% target instead of the modest 27% proposed by the council. it also calls for these objectives to be binding on the member states, so as to make their attainment more certain. the report also sets out a number of measures to tackle energy poverty, such as the priority member states should give to energy-efficient refurbishment of public or vulnerable household buildings. the s&d group did a great job, improving the text in committee and leading the coalition of political groups to secure its adoption in plenary. i therefore thank my colleagues and vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is on track to meet its 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources by 20% and improving energy efficiency by 20%. the achievement of this objective could be jeopardised if member states do not fully implement current eu legislation. the eu should therefore invest more in information and support programmes in the member states, which could help increase participation in current mandatory local energy efficiency schemes, as well as promote new technical advances in areas such as cooling, lighting and insulation. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the text discussed in the itre committee and presented in plenary by mr pieper concerns the implementation of the energy efficiency directive 2012/27. this directive establishes a strategic framework for the promotion of energy efficiency in the eu and imposes a non-binding 20% target for energy efficiency to be achieved by 2020. although much remains to be done to close the energy gap between member states, the commission recognised the commitment and efforts made to improve energy efficiency. the text presented and discussed in the itre committee, of which i am a member, contains interesting insights on the implementation of the legislation, with a particular focus on the period after 2020 and the strategies to be put in place on how to ensure the stability and security needed for investors. the report also refers to the measures contained in the european commission's text, but it makes changes with which i do not agree. in line with the positions i have always taken on energy efficiency, such as the achievement of ambitious but flexible targets, and in line with the ppe group, i voted against the pieper report.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report because it contains many of our requests made in committee. the report considers energy efficiency to be key to achieving the eu's climate and energy objectives. stresses that efficiency is of paramount importance in order to reduce our dependence on energy imports, create jobs, reduce energy poverty, improve well-being and health and stimulate the economy; calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and for the resources freed up to be channelled towards improving energy efficiency and the decarbonisation process. important victories of the m5s were the inclusion in the report of the binding eu target of 40% by 2030, with specific national targets, and the call to consider energy efficiency as a priority to increase the resilience of the energy system. we also asked that the energy saved be considered as a stand-alone resource, expressed in "negawatts". this report also calls on the eu and member states to recognise the importance of local authorities and citizens as key actors in energy efficiency in the transition to a more sustainable economy. so overall the report is ambitious and progressive, although it still includes some conservative approaches.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the eu's energy and climate policy, it is of great importance in setting out a set of binding measures to guide the eu in achieving the targets of increasing energy efficiency by 20%, increasing renewable energy production by 20% and reducing co2 emissions by 20%, all by 2020. unfortunately, the directive has not been fully implemented in the various member states and although it is possible that the emission reduction target will be achieved in any case, the economic and industrial crisis that has hit the eu over the last eight years will be more to the credit than the work done by the various member states. the epp rapporteur had tried to read this failure of the directive in a way that pitted industrial interests against climate and environmental objectives, calling for repeated deregulation and flexibility in the revision of the directive due in the autumn. the political and amendment work carried out by us and by the other more progressive and green forces has, however, made it possible to assess more critically the problems of implementing the directive, such as the lack of binding objectives, by putting the more conservative forces in the minority and by significantly improving the text.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. brexit has won and we have to accept that vote. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. we are with you, we are the europe of erasmus, we are the europe of culture, we are the europe which has funded the best research and innovation projects of british universities, we are the europe of dialogue and interreligious respect, we are the europe of peace, which is the main value that is in the hearts of young people in britain and young people in the world. no referendum can break the historical, sentimental thread that binds the united kingdom to this continent, by history and by vocation. the united kingdom remains part of europe, which is not a treaty but, above all, an ideal. and until the united kingdom leaves the union, this institution is and will remain the home of all britons. history will judge those responsible for this disaster. firstly, the tory leaders and the tobacco salesmen who have lied to the british people. the proof is in front of everyone, the day after: they promised the voters to leave the european union, but in reality they left a field full of rubble, a constitutional crisis with scotland, political chaos with the rest of the country, the collapse of the pound, real damage to the real economy. now that the country has been destroyed, some people want to destroy the european union too, paralysing the life of these institutions. i 'll make this clear: the european union cannot become a hostage to the current games of the british conservative party. and the pro-european forces in this parliament will be able to form a united front to prevent all this, to change, improve and save the european union. the british authorities must notify the united kingdom of its intention to withdraw as soon as possible and the european commission must start negotiations after the notification of withdrawal. but i would like to invite you to think more deeply, ladies and gentlemen. the result of the referendum is not just the result of cameron's russian roulette, it is the result of deep-seated motives. globalization has created winners, but also losers, also inequalities, and we have been too lazy to defend the losers and to support their causes. we thought the market could solve everything, it would create magnificent and progressive fortunes, and we gave up the public hand to create wealth and to redistribute wealth in a sense of equality. there was a financial superpower that outranked democracy, politics and institutions. we have started to work as european institutions with the banking union, but much still needs to be done to reassert the power of democracy over the often hidden and insidious powers of the financial caste. we have a continent split. and we have hatred and despair that threatens to overwhelm everything. europe must answer these questions. and the first answer, jean claude juncker said, is respect for justice. and when i speak of justice, i am talking about people, about human beings, social justice, triple a social justice, ambitious revision of the 'posted workers', social pillar, fight against social and fiscal dumping, fight against global warming. either we act on this road, or we leave the field to a war between the poor. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we must move forward, president juncker! we socialists want to go further, because we must encourage public and private investment. we need a more ambitious investment plan and i am making it clear today that our group will oppose the translation of the european union's fiscal compact law, which must be radically changed. tax justice. i did not vote for the fiscal compact! learn how institutions work. the fiscal compact was not voted by the european parliament. go study before you talk! fighting tax havens without pause, combating tax fraud and evasion, implementing the measures approved by the taxe committee. and then there's the big issue of democracy. every citizen must count. we propose that the next european elections should be held in direct elections for the president of the european commission, the leader of the european union, the mayor of europe. the citizens must be able to find the name of the candidate for the premiership of europe on the card together with the national party and the european party. this means creating a genuine european political space. we have to have the courage to do these things. we have been elected by citizens who believe in europe and we must fight with all our strength, with all our feeling, with all our passion, so as not to betray the citizens who elected us and supported us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just one thing to say to mr farage. i can't whistle, and even if i could whistle, i would never have allowed myself to do it to my colleagues or to anyone, but i have to tell you something: you have not done your country any good, and history will prove it. unfortunately, history will show that! it is not a moment for polemics, for exploitation, it is an important historical step. we need to be clear. it was wanted by some brexit, brexit was it? now you don't understand why he's dragging himself. democracy wants an outcome to be noted and reported, can we once again be influenced by the inner games of the british conservative party? why do we have to wait for the tory party congress? it is absurd, it is mind-boggling, it should be the 52% of british citizens who voted for brexit that are rebelling. now it's clear that there are those who want to use this vote to destroy. we're on opposite sides, and we're in good company. we are in the company of the christian democrats, the liberals and the greens. of all those who want to change and save europe. we have indicated what must be done immediately and we ask the european council to take our requests into account. but we also look to the future, and in the short and medium term, we think of a convention open to citizens. the citizens, not the brussels elite, should be the guiding principles for a process of stronger political integration, including the establishment of a european treasury and finance minister, a more adequate budget, common defence and security policies, the fight against terrorism, a european fbi, and common immigration policies. we have our ideas straight! we want to do these things, in the short and medium term, and we want to be united in doing these things, even if we overcome our remaining distinctions, which must now give way to a common effort to save europe. that is our position and we will pursue it with great firmness.
in writing. the referendum results should make us all ask ourselves what the reasons behind this are. the first reaction of a responsible parliament should be reflection and self-criticism, but it seems that this is being replaced by a rush to punish the british and to expel them from the union. the referendum is a final wake-up call to the need to design a different union, one that is more socially aware and inclusive, connected to the needs of the most vulnerable and supportive of its own people. the resolution presented contains no real self-criticism. we must start by really listening to the people and make the european union a community from which no one wants to leave and not a place where those who try to voice their dissent are punished.
in writing. ‒ brexit is not a catastrophe but an extraordinary test of freedom against the undemocratic dictatorship of the eu. that is why i did not want to support the joint resolution tabled by the ppe, s&d, alde and green groups, a text devoid of self-criticism which culpably forgets that it was precisely the insane eu policies pursued by these groups that pushed the british people towards brexit, policies which have constantly eroded the sovereignty of the member states, turning the eu into a dangerous bureaucratic superstructure serving the interests of banks and multinationals. i voted in favour of the resolution by the eldr group which applauds and congratulates the british people on the right choice of freedom from the yoke of brussels. i am sure that many other member states will soon follow the path traced by the united kingdom by giving their citizens the choice to return to their own country free and independent.
in writing. ‒ taking note of the expressed wish of the british people to leave the european union, it is necessary to ensure that the withdrawal procedure provided for in article 50 of the tfeu is triggered as soon as possible, with the negotiations on the matter starting as soon as possible. the next withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union must take place as soon as possible: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are being asked to do so by citizens, associations and businesses. we must roll up our sleeves, seizing the great political window that brexit has opened up for us to reflect seriously on the current limits of the european integration project, in order to relaunch it with greater vigour and conviction. we need a stronger and more united europe, a europe with the right means and the right skills to be able to act decisively in a globalised, ultra-liberal international context which has produced enormous inequalities and injustices and which therefore needs to be profoundly reformed. we need a europe that can stand up, a europe that is cosmopolitan, open, tolerant, able to respond, above all, to the losers of globalisation, to fight the new fascisms that are emerging and to guarantee peace and prosperity for present and future generations.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to ask the united kingdom to respect fully the will of the majority of its citizens without further delay and to proceed with the formal notification of its withdrawal from the eu and, in any event, first with the notification and then with the negotiations on the new relationship with the eu. the eu must be able to use this dramatic event to revive the european project. we need to return to the roots of the european project and ensure europe's sustainable prosperity. the union must be reformed to make it better and closer to the expectations of its citizens. i agree that it is essential to strengthen the eu's core and that tailor-made solutions should be avoided. europe is at a crossroads: we must either realise the european dream or go back a century and give nationalist impulses new life. an ambitious and clear roadmap must be defined and the opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty must be fully exploited to achieve it. finally, i would remind you that, under the treaties, the european parliament's approval of the final agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom will have to be sought and that parliament itself must be fully involved in all stages of the withdrawal negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the resolution tabled following the referendum in britain does not contain the elements of self-criticism of the status quo that the result of the referendum itself calls for. there is no recognition of mistakes and it seems that the aim is instead to punish the united kingdom for having voted freely. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as long as a resolution like the one adopted today takes into account the will of the people and thinks of giving a follow-up, i am in agreement. another issue, and it is a pity that it has not been addressed, is how the eu must change to take account of the message received from across the channel: the juncker commission has shown from the outset that it is aware of the problems and that it wants to tackle them, but it is clear that it has not done enough (yet). a change of course is therefore necessary and can no longer be postponed. it is a pity, however, that british members of parliament were able to take part in our vote and debate on the text we adopted, while the eu refrained from campaigning in the united kingdom, as if the issue concerned only british citizens and not all europeans. we'll see what happens, but i'll continue to monitor and represent the interests of the citizens who, with their vote, gave me a mandate.
in writing. ‒ the totally unexpected outcome of the british referendum requires a comprehensive rethinking of the union's political, economic and social strategies. the first step in getting the european project back on track, however crude it may seem, is the ability to assume full responsibility and to call on others to do the same. the british government, which has been the initiator of such superficial and irresponsible decisions, has the political duty and obligation to follow up the expression of the people's will by submitting a clear and immediate request for the withdrawal procedure to be opened. we, as european institutions, also have duties to fulfil. it is up to us to show our credibility by not indulging in useless and harmful informal talks with britain and by concentrating all our efforts on genuine reform of the union. we are launching a convention to revise the treaties, to improve and make europe more democratic, we are re-launching our values of social justice, sustainability and growth, to overcome once and for all the uncertainties of economic and social instability and to finally give answers to the many citizens who still believe that a united europe can represent a horizon of peace and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution tabled by the major political groups in parliament: after brexit, they still do not seem to be aware that this european union must be totally changed and re-founded!
in writing. today we have a historic debate on the consequences of brexit. the resolution adopted by the house calls on the british prime minister to present the results of the referendum and on the european institutions to act as soon as possible. i regret the outcome of the referendum, but i naturally respect the wishes of the majority of the people. we are in a period of crisis for the whole of the union, but we must not let ourselves be discouraged by what has happened. instead, let us take this result as an input to intensify our efforts and continue to work together towards an ever more cohesive european union. it was moving to hear our scottish colleague mr smith speak of his and the scottish people's desire to remain in the eu. we must think of the 48% who voted for 'remain' and we must respond strongly and create the future of europe with the other 27 countries, to have a more integrated, diverse europe, which is able to respond to the citizens, with more common policies, defence, security and above all a foreign policy that is truly a european policy.
in writing. ‒ the outcome of the referendum on whether or not the uk should remain in the eu did not deliver the result that most of us hoped for. the british people have democratically decided to leave our union and that decision must be respected. the european parliament is now calling for a clear and, as soon as possible, fast track to the establishment of the new relationship between the uk and the eu. we do not believe that further uncertainty and delay will be of any benefit to the union or to the united kingdom. that is why it is necessary that the british government initiate the separation procedure as soon as possible, to avoid internal instability causing problems throughout the continent. it will be a difficult and probably painful journey, especially for all those britons who voted for "remain" and who still believe in the european dream: they have my sympathy. but parliament must take account of the will of the majority and it is therefore right that we should take a firm stand in this resolution. we must respond to this instability by strengthening the union and its institutions, which must be ever closer to the people of europe. only then can nationalism be defeated.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because i consider it deeply unfair to the people of the united kingdom. we in the five star movement are only interested in seeing the popular will as expressed in the referendum respected. it is not for the european parliament to impose an acceleration of the procedures laid down in article 50, which is not even within the prerogatives of the parliament. the situation is complex and unprecedented. it seems absurd that the resolution, in view of the outcome of the referendum, does not include a serious self-criticism and does not analyse the faults of europe itself. together with my colleagues from the five star movement, we proposed an amendment in which the council would give the commission a clearly defined political mandate and we also asked that a situation of discrimination against british meps be avoided, due to a likely change in the parliamentary organisation. in the light of the result of the referendum, we in the five star movement have called for the resignation of commission president juncker and we have urged it strongly.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a point of order because, as you have said, because of the terrible attacks in bangladesh, for which, as an italian, i feel particularly close and sorry for the nine italian victims, we thought, as the ppe, to ask for a change of the urgent agenda. however, at this point, we withdraw the request; we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. i, as an italian, express my particular condolences to the families of the italian victims.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as already decided in the conference of presidents, i ask on behalf of my group to discuss a second resolution on the rule of law in poland on tuesday. because in the meantime the commission has expressed its concern about the rule of law, as has, once again, the venice commission; because the constitutional court remains paralyzed; because new laws are being passed, on counterterrorism, internet surveillance, media, abortion. it was decided to check their consistency with european laws in a second resolution. i think this parliament will recognise that, in the very post-brexit era, democracy is the first asset to be defended in the union, and i mean all three pillars of constitutional democracy: universal suffrage, the rule of law and the separation of powers. it is not an interference in the internal affairs of a member state but a reference to common principles and laws, which each one has subscribed to by signing the treaties, especially articles 2 and 6. if the polish government or other governments, future or present, - i am thinking of hungary or the new austrian presidency - consider that these principles infringe their sovereignty, the whole constitutional structure of the union should be reviewed.
vote now. about our proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the agreement reached with the council on 6 april on the regulation on the emission limit and type approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. this new regulation for non-road mobile machinery will replace the existing directive, covering all types of internal combustion engine installed on different types of machinery, which include small portable equipment, construction machinery, electric generators, motor cars and locomotives, inland waterway vessels, agricultural machinery such as cotton picking machines, and narrow tractors. new power ranges and new types of machinery such as cranes have been introduced into this regulation, for example, compared with the old regulation. i must say that the work on this dossier has been long and demanding and that it has also taken six trilogues - four with the luxembourg presidency and two with the dutch presidency - to reach this agreement. but i think we have reached a good agreement, a very good agreement. the work was long because the dossier was technical but also because we had to wait for the conclusion of other dossiers, such as the regulation on emissions in real driving conditions and the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation. but in the end the co-legislators did a very good job and i would of course like to thank, in addition to the council and the commission, all the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups for this fruitful cooperation which we were able to establish from the outset and i believe that the sign of how fruitful this cooperation was was also the vote in the envi committee, where our work was almost unanimous. i think that this fruitful work has also led to a negotiating package in which parliament's priorities are clearly set out and which i believe has improved on the original commission text. i would also like to thank my colleagues in my group who supported me in my role as rapporteur and the chairman of the envi committee, mr giovanni la via, for his support in the final trilogues and, of course, also all the staff of all the institutions involved in the work, because they had to do, precisely because of the technicality of the dossier, a really great job. i say this with a certain melancholy feeling, because, apart from the fact that we have worked through several presidencies which we are now greeting - the dutch presidency to welcome and therefore wish good work to the polish presidency - i remind you that two of the shadow rapporteurs who worked with us are british and so on this, let us say, there is the melancholy of the vote on 23 june. i think the final agreement is extremely positive and i explain why: i want to do this very briefly, without going into the technical details, because i want to give the discussion time, perhaps take a few minutes to answer and then conclude. i think we have struck a really important balance between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of european industry. we in europe will have the strictest emission limits in the world from 2019: we are talking about nitrogen oxide emissions, particulate matter emissions, and therefore air pollutants responsible for 15% of global emissions in this sector. that is why i stress the importance of the rules of procedure and also of tomorrow's vote.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gardini, for her hard work on this file, which made it possible to find a satisfactory compromise and to swiftly adopt the regulation at first reading. a fairer and deeper single market should also care about environmental protection and health. this regulation demonstrates that the commission is delivering. in simple terms, this new regulation has two main goals: cutting emissions and cutting red tape. the new regulation provides for more stringent limits for pollutant emissions for engines installed in non—road mobile machinery. at the same time, it sets out harmonised rules for the eu markets and aligns with international standards. in this way, it is good for the environment and good for jobs and growth. it is thus not surprising that this proposal received – and still receives – broad support from the entire stakeholder community. member states count on it to fulfil their obligations on air quality targets, industries rely on it to increase their competitiveness and to gain investment and legal certainty, and social partners and ngos call for it to improve workers’ health and to protect the environment. last but not least, the european citizens deserve it as they can legitimately expect their health to be protected to the best extent possible. indeed, engines installed in non-road mobile machinery contribute significantly to air pollution and account for roughly 15% of the nitrogen oxides and 5% of the particulate matter emissions in the european union. recent studies indicate that their relative contribution to total nox emissions could become bigger over time if nothing is done. the commission has acted to propose stricter emission limits, resulting in a very significant emission reduction overall. the new regulation addresses the major air pollutants: nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and particulate matters, including limits for the so-called ultrafine particles, taking up the most recent conclusive evidence on their adverse health effects. let me also address briefly an important aspect for the internal market: jobs and growth. with this regulation the competitive position of european industries is strengthened in many regards: additional business potential through access to a genuine european internal market, reduced costs through reduction of administrative burden and new business opportunities through harmonising technical requirements, which give industry access to other important world markets such as the us and japan. in this way the regulation contributes to maintaining a leader position in the field of technologies through the supply of products of highest quality standards. hence, in this way we lay the foundations to create more jobs and boost growth. the adoption of this regulation will have a positive effect on the environment and on health, as well as on entrepreneurship and competitiveness in europe and this is, of course, good news.
draftsman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. mr president, this draft regulation was also discussed by the internal market committee (imco) and, although we are not a guarantee committee, we supported the proposal as such. the arguments put forward in support of this material have already been summarised by the rapporteur. i also want to congratulate her, because most of the amendments that were adopted in the imco committee were eventually reflected in the envi committee's opinion. and we're very pleased. our philosophy has been to support a regulation that would remove a directive that essentially introduced 28 different legal regimes in each country. replace it with a uniform regulation for the whole of europe, while adopting a regulation that preserves the competitiveness of european industry. that's our main duty, too. that's why we've included our amendments in the material. they were also discussed here. the big issue was the setting of transition periods for the different engine types. we therefore support the proposal and hope that it will be put into effect soon.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that the agreement reached was an excellent agreement and for that we should thank the rapporteur for her commitment and of course also the various presidencies that have alternated with the council for their contributions. we are certainly moving in the right direction, which is to improve air quality by imposing limits on ourselves through this certainly cutting-edge regulation, which allows us to look to the future with confidence. after paris, after the climate change agreement, we're starting with a set of regulations that will lead us to improve and reduce the amount of emissions, thereby making life easier for citizens in all environments and improving air quality. i must emphasize one thing: the reduction in emissions, with this regulation, is a strong, controlled reduction, looking to the years ahead. but we have also simplified the type-approval legislation, with improved transparency and reduced administrative burdens; we have achieved closer alignment with those requirements of non-eu countries on emission standards and have ensured improved cost efficiency and competitiveness of producers. i therefore call on all of you to support this agreement by voting in favour tomorrow and we will take another important step forward, building on what we agreed in paris.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by recalling, as mrs gardini has already said, that the european commission has proposed a middle way between the european and the overseas systems, since the us market for non-road mobile machinery represents a considerable share of european exports. unfortunately, parliament's envi committee has quickly adapted, extending the categories for which derogations can be granted, extending the time-span of the derogations themselves, delaying the implementation of the legislation, reducing the level of ambition for the reduction of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter; so the companies are happy and the ppe is happy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in short, although these machines are responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of fine particulate matter in the european union, this agreement does not lend itself to remedying them either effectively or in a timely manner.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to your exchanges and your comments and i would like to thank you for your contributions to this important debate. the proposal that is now on the table takes into account most of the concerns expressed by members at the different stages of this legislative process. let me thank the rapporteurs once again for cooperating so closely and thank mrs gardini for her efforts in closing the gap with the other co—legislator with her compromise solutions. thanks also go to the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). in closing, let me stress a few key points. this new regulation will certainly reduce pollutant emissions for engines installed in non-road mobile machinery, a very positive step for the environment and the health of european citizens. in setting out harmonised rules for the european markets and aligning with international standards, it will promote competitiveness and clear red tape. replacing the directive by a regulation will make life less burdensome for engine and machine manufacturers. from now on, they only need to look at one text and not at 28 national transposition laws. i may therefore recommend this regulation to the parliament and call for your strong support. thank you very much for your attention and even more for your work.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, i think that the discussion we have just had was a sort of small summary of the very thorough discussions we have had over the past weeks and months. with eickhout there is a relationship that has become quite funny. when you mention, bas, the machines that pick cotton, we're talking about 200 machines that work a few weeks a year, we know that. but, as you said, it's a bit of a shock, but it's there. i believe that this debate really represents the great effort, the great work that has been done and an example of how, by putting our energies together, listening to each other and trying to achieve the common goal of improving the quality of the environment, protecting the health of citizens, making all the possible efforts in the real world, we get a result that is then in the end the best. they say the best is the enemy of the good: we have reached the best possible stage, and we are preparing ourselves for the next revision of the regulation, because small and mediumsized enterprises will certainly have a longer transition period, because they will have much less red tape, because there are many positive aspects in many respects, and, i repeat, we will have the strictest limits in the world, because even the other two most regulated markets, the japanese and the american markets, will lag behind the european union. we also introduced a new monitoring system to assess the performance of engines in real life, which will thus bridge the gap between the engine tests in the laboratory and the emissions in the real world, and we also introduced - this is a technical matter, but we understand each other - thanks also to the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation, a substantial number of delegated acts, which is why, for this reason too, i believe that parliament's role will be strengthened, another point that i added to the positive aspects. i thank you all again: i also thank commissioner thyssen and i hope that tomorrow i will have a good majority in support of this which i reiterate and i think is a great step forward for all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only a good one, but also a good one.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 5 july 2016. i also congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, whom i will also be congratulating tomorrow, since i will be chairing the vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am truly honoured to have the opportunity today to present my report on social inclusion and the integration of refugees into the labour market in the house. this is obviously a very serious matter, and one of the most complex challenges we have to face. i will not hide from you that i approached the drafting of the document with a certain apprehension, fully aware of the complexity and importance of the subject. i would therefore like to begin my speech by extending my sincere thanks to my shadow rapporteurs for their extraordinary contribution to the drafting of the text, and in particular for their excellent cooperation during all phases of the parliamentary work. only the enf group has shown itself to be opposed to our work, the group of marine le pen and matteo salvini, who for a change is not even in the chamber now, when we are talking about a matter such as the refugees that are often mentioned on television. as the european parliament, we are called upon to present an analysis of the situation, policies and practices of integrating refugees into the labour market and society. in preparing the document, i based my reflection on a few starting assumptions. for example, the fact that all humanitarian migrants are people who have been forced to leave their own countries and therefore represent an extremely vulnerable group. i have highlighted the current state of health of the european economy, which is still trying to emerge from a severe and protracted period of crisis, with record levels of unemployment, particularly among young people. i have pointed out that too often the public and political debate on the measures to be taken to support refugees and asylum seekers is poisoned by false myths, prejudice and discrimination, various forms of populism and, in the worst cases, even racism. let me give you some of the key points in the report. giving refugees access to the labour market is necessary to restore their human dignity and self-esteem, and is a cost-effective public policy measure, as it allows them to become self-sufficient and gain economic independence. intervening with social and employment inclusion policies in a timely manner is essential to the success of such policies. in addition, labour market conditions in host countries are a determining factor in the success and sustainability of refugee integration. the commission and member states must therefore continue to give priority to policies and investments that create jobs and generate economic growth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the union's policy on migration and integration. it would be a serious political mistake and create competition between the weaker ones, which would only lead to more social injustice. the european social fund should therefore be reduced to 25% of the cohesion policy budget. the reception conditions directive should be amended to allow applicants for international protection to access the labour market within six months of the date of submission of their asylum application. the need to increase available public investment and provide additional financial resources to be allocated directly to local and regional public administrations, civil society and voluntary organisations. they are, in fact, at the forefront of welcoming refugees into our society and therefore deserve appropriate support and greater recognition in policy-making. i hope, therefore, that the house will be able to support the report voted in the committee on employment, which i believe can be a useful document in identifying the social and occupational integration of refugees as a challenge, but also an opportunity for our society, our economy and our european union. i shall be happy to answer your questions and comments.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking my colleague, mr brando benifei, for the work he has done and the cooperation he has sought, i recognize that tackling this issue was not at all easy, because europe is the one that is meeting with the african states in valletta and proposing a holistic approach, but it is also a europe that is creating walls, barbed wire and preventing this acceptance in the sharing of responsibilities, and i am glad that those who were the strong points of the five star movement have been welcomed in this report. we have asked for an analysis of the causes of immigration, in order to understand where we are starting from and why we are starting and to be able, in some way, to tackle the problem at its root, as well as solidarity in responsibility, because it is only in sharing responsibility that the problem of immigration can be tackled, not by denying this cooperation between states. we have called for legal ways of access, such as a fair mechanism for the allocation and distribution of migrants. we have asked for policies that have a vision, that address the emergency today, but that ask what can be done in the future, more and better. and perhaps i would have liked my colleague mr benifei - since italy is his country as well as mine and is at the forefront of dealing with the emergency in an even more difficult context, because you know very well how italy suffers from the problems of unemployment and social tensions and difficulties - to have said more and better that the countries most directly involved in primary reception should have been better protected and supported. we have a vision here that is perhaps more courageous, and we would have liked to have had a little of that vision. but we will support this report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 22 million unemployed people in europe and 122 million poor people. this is the reality that brings down the mask of the false goodwill of the left. there is no need for new labour in italy and europe. we don't need any more immigrants. and then you stop playing with words and numbers: the real refugees, the real refugees, are only 30% of the illegal immigrants who arrive in italy, and the term refugee means that the person will return to their country of origin once the war is over. that is why the debate on long-term integration is pointless. you, who are inviting immigrants to reach this europe of poverty, of crisis, are mad. we all know that the policy of open doors for all will lead to the death of the peoples of europe. shame on you, for being complicit in this filthy business of human beings. you are not saving lives from poverty but you are importing millions of new slaves. the truth is that the immigration business plays into the hands of the corporations: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i know this very well, because i come from a land, veneto, where so many people have left. my uncles have emigrated abroad. but i also know that in italy there are many unemployed: there are people who are struggling to make ends meet, there are elderly people who no longer have money to buy medicines to treat themselves. and so i, here in the european parliament, want to defend them first of all, because we cannot save the world. i want to save and help my citizens.
member of the commission. your rapporteur, mr benifei, has produced a very comprehensive and in-depth report, and i would like to thank him again for it. several of you have said it: there are more people on the run than ever before. these are people who seek protection from us, who see a beacon of hope in the european union and who hope and count on our solidarity. we have a legal and ethical duty to provide protection to people who are entitled to international protection, and i am personally convinced that it is in the best interests of all that those who are receiving protection should also be integrated as quickly and as well as possible into our society and into our labour market. we all know that's not an easy task for anyone. the effort must come from both sides. we live in a society of rights and duties. that's the way our society is set up. but having said that, we also know that refugees are a very vulnerable group of people. if we look at their situation, they have, of course, traumas that some people have talked about, but we also know that they have degrees that they've acquired elsewhere, qualifications that they've acquired elsewhere. it is often very difficult to compare their skills, if they are already documented, with what is needed in our labour market. they are often poorly educated. we must give them the opportunity to be educated and to have basic skills. this is what we are trying to do with a number of elements of our skills agenda. we must give these people the opportunity to learn languages, which is something we have also taken up in our action programme for the integration of migrants. there are already some budgets in there that will be spent to give those people the opportunity to learn the language of the host country. i think we should not deny that there is still a lot of pure discrimination in our society, including in our labour market. we must also oppose this, and we must do something about it. what are we doing from europe? this semester we will look at the situation of migrants in the labour market. a number of member states have received specific recommendations on how they could perform better in terms of integrating people with a migrant background, sometimes even the second or third generation. and this is also true for countries other than those which have received specific recommendations. we are also using all the means at our disposal, because some of you have rightly said that this is primarily a task for the member states. but we in europe can help the member states in this difficult task. we'll do that with everything we have at our disposal. we are doing so with our action programme for the integration of people from third countries. we do this through our skills agenda, which has a number of specific elements to increase the chances of integration of refugees. we're doing the same with our blue card approach. we also use our funds: the european social fund and the feat are funds which can also be used for the integration of refugees and are being used for that purpose. we are exchanging best practice and we are ensuring that capacity building can take place in the member states. because in that area too our countries can learn from each other. we also use, again, the tools that we have at our disposal during the semester. i referred to the country specific recommendations. but i would also point out that the extra expenditure associated with this refugee crisis is also effectively recognised as extraordinary in the assessment of the budgetary situation of the member states and that this expenditure is not taken into account in order to determine whether member states are subject to an excessive deficit procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to participate in the european union's activities. nor is it always easy for the people in the host member state. but one thing is certain. we all have an interest in welcoming the people who come to us as well as possible and integrating them as well as possible into our society and our labour market. and if we do, then we can all benefit from it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to repeat the words of one of the members who said just now: it cannot be the intention to make all of them long-term unemployed. i think that's something we don't want. so we have to go the other way around, and i am very grateful for all the recommendations and for the things we are sharing to give these people the chance to integrate as quickly as possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the members for this in-depth discussion and also commissioner thyssen for her participation and for the important words that were said. on the one hand, it is clear that this is a very complex issue; we need to take a balanced approach, as we have said, we need to make choices in the direction of integration, integration that is not at the expense of the inhabitants of the receiving countries, against social dumping, for a real integration in the world of work and in the society of refugees. i would like to thank the commission for the joint work and, as i said, for the clear words, and i also respect the clear progress we are seeing in the proposals for the action plan for third country nationals, in the news skills agenda, in the indications and proposals that are moving in the direction that the report calls for. so let us continue to work in this direction, with constructive work, as constructive as this debate in parliament has been, to find balanced solutions for all: the european union is not only a great supporter of the rights of refugees, but also a great supporter of the rights of citizens, who have legitimate concerns and fears, but who must be reassured of the union's will to build integration solutions that are useful for all, so that, as i said in my speech, refugees, whose reception is our humanitarian duty, can find their dignity and find a meaning for a life that is often traumatized precisely in integration into our society. at the same time, i am glad that people who represent, for me, and also by the things they say, the very ideas of racism and xenophobia, such as my colleagues von storch and voigt, have been absolutely in disagreement with this report, but their very racist words, in my opinion, qualify them for themselves. and colleagues like mrs bizzotto, who has shown, as i believe, as have many of my colleagues in the northern league, that they do not read the reports because of the concerns about social dumping... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. – madam president, europe is on a path to recovery. we see that employment figures continue to rise and that unemployment is starting to drop. but, as we all know, the effects of the crisis are still being felt in many member states and regions, and young people in particular have borne the worst of it. fighting youth unemployment remains a top priority for the commission. therefore, i want to thank thomas händel and the committee on employment and social affairs of this house for their question on the youth guarantee and youth employment initiative. as you know, we have acted by adopting a solid policy framework on youth employment, the youth guarantee, and by dedicated funding to the youth employment initiative for those young people not in employment, education or training. this funding comes in addition to substantial european social fund (esf) intervention and on top of national funding, which is equally needed to fight youth unemployment. the youth guarantee is a driver for real reform. it is the central plank in our efforts to improve access pathways to the labour market and facilitate the transition from education to the job market, and it has already started to bring results. as regards the commission’s findings on the member states’ evaluations, it is important to stress that youth guarantee implementation has started in all member states following the planning phase. in 2014 all the member states presented their youth guarantee implementation plans, which identify precisely the measures to be taken to implement the youth guarantee. they outline the timeframe for youth employment reforms and measures, the roles of public authorities and other organisations and how the measures will be financed. the implementation of the national plans is now underway. member states are making substantial efforts to implement the youth guarantee, which has proven to be a driver for structural reforms. the joint employment reports for 2015 and 2016 list promising steps, with concrete examples in many countries. for example, member states are strengthening their public employment services to improve the outreach to those furthest from the labour market. in addition, they are building closer partnerships with the private sector to increase the number and improve the quality of job offers, apprenticeships and traineeship opportunities. the youth guarantee has also accelerated progress on delivering the skills that employers are actually seeking. the substantial european financial support available underpins the successful implementation of the youth guarantee. three years into its implementation, the youth employment initiative, worth eur 6.4 billion when including the esf contribution, is proving to be a key lever for those member states worst hit by youth unemployment. there is an indication that the youth employment initiative and the esf have an important influence on the design of youth employment policy in member states. for instance, the youth employment initiative and the esf have supported a shift to demand-based delivery of active labour market policies for young people, with a much stronger focus on individualised assistance. furthermore, the commission urges member states to continue paying special attention to the quality of offers delivered. over the past three years, member states have allocated youth employment initiative resources to concrete measures such as traineeships and apprenticeships, first job experiences and support for youth entrepreneurship. as a result, more than 1.3 million young people in europe have benefited from work and training opportunities. these are strong indications that the youth guarantee schemes are on track now, even if much still needs to be done. as regards uptake of the youth employment initiative, the additional pre-financing swiftly decided on by the european co-legislators in 2015 concretely helped to increase the work opportunities for young people on the ground. it is therefore of the utmost importance to use the available european money swiftly. in this context the 2017 draft budget includes a technical adjustment of the cohesion policy national envelopes for 2017-2020 in line with article 7 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation. all member states’ allocations under the investment for growth and jobs goal of cohesion policy for the years 2017-2020 were reviewed and compared to the actual evolution of gdp. the effect of the adjustment is an increase of eur 4.6 billion, at current prices, in the 2017-2020 ceiling for commitments under economic, social and territorial cohesion – heading 1b – and concerns member states particularly affected by the economic slowdown of the past few years. we urge these member states to use the additional funds for stimulating youth employment as well as for the integration of refugees and promoting investment. i believe that all member states have to pursue the youth guarantee including by directing the necessary national resources to those dedicated actions. as regards a possible extension of the youth employment initiative, the upcoming report on progress with the implementation of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative and the midterm review of the mff will provide the opportunity to consider how further to provide financial support for youth employment. addressing youth unemployment and embarking on reforms in line with the youth guarantee remain a key political priority of the european union. that is what our social market economy is about. as i have said many times before, it is the commission’s firm intention to steer the european union more strongly towards social fairness. this means that no one should be left behind, in particular our youth. europe cannot afford to let the human resources that our young people represent go to waste. therefore, together with member states, we should continue our efforts for the implementation of the youth guarantee and provide the appropriate financial support.
i would like to thank the european commission for being here in the house and for answering the questions in our question. i would like to use the time i have to express a concept: the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are essential tools for combating youth unemployment. that is why we have been promoters of this parliamentary initiative, calling for detailed information and a continuing commitment, not just political, to carry forward two potential programmes. this situation is an emergency, but the emergency logic of dealing with the problem must be overcome. the european parliament knows this, as do the organisations which operate on a daily basis in the area, such as the european youth forum, age platform, coface, the european disability forum, the ispd, eurocities, the european trade union confederation. the very ones i have listed have this morning issued a joint statement on the youth guarantee, calling for the immediate extension of the youth employment initiative, a continued financial commitment and the development of new methods to improve access for all operators to the funds available. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the new directive on the protection of the environment. i am sorry to read in the preparatory documents for the 2017 budget that the commission does not plan to include new appropriations for the youth employment initiative for the coming years because of front-loading but i believe that the mid-term evaluation of the youth guarantee, together with the words also spoken by the commissioner today, will demonstrate that this instrument is essential to make the programmes work. the european parliament intends to keep the fight against youth unemployment as a top priority. we shall be going into this very shortly, as has already been said in the discussions on the multiannual financial framework, and i am sure that we will be able to do a good job together. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i think that even in the formulation of the question, account should be taken of the need for institutional coordination. it is clear that the youth employment initiative, and in particular the youth guarantee, cannot work without effective work from the european level, to the member states and to local and regional authorities. it 's a very important thing . i've seen him do a lot of the work, going around the territories and talking to the operators. this is a priority and i think it is clearly stated and the commission must of course take it into account.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, i think i have a déjà vu. we are still talking about the youth guarantee, we are still asking for this measure to be implemented to counter the effects of unemployment; we are even calling for it to be stabilized and made a systematic measure to help unemployment. unfortunately, this is not the way. it is not the way to go because we know very well that, in view of the financial commitment allocated to this measure of control, the results are extremely disappointing. i bring the experience of my country which has completely failed this implementation. we come from the same country, but we probably talk to different people. i'll give you the emails of many young people who write to me that, after a year of entering the youth guarantee, they have not yet been paid and ask me why and if it is normal. no, it's not normal! i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer. we must therefore learn to face reality and realise that certain instruments will not work if europe is pouring money down the drain and not doing control and not tackling the problem of unemployment effectively, trying to solve it at the structural level. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. the question raised by mrs agea is very correct. we have huge implementation problems. in fact, the question went in that direction. but at least my assessment - and i would like to ask my colleague for her comments on this - is that we must continue to improve and monitor expenditure, to ensure that there is no waste. we were talking earlier about monitoring the local authorities and working with the regions. i think it 's a mistake to stop a project . for many, however, the youth guarantee was a way of finding a chance.
answer to a blue-card question. colleague benifei we must not play with words: stop, continue, and then... that is not the order of the problems. it's that if we don't monitor how local authorities manage and use this tool, we're not going anywhere. less than a year ago i urged commissioner thyssen to manage the youth guarantee in the province of terni. she herself answered me by saying: "we are monitoring because what he is telling us, and therefore of a not very transparent management, is for real and so we are moving to verify". you do that.
in writing. the 'youth guarantee' should help young people to enter the labour market, but youth unemployment rates remain dramatically high in several european regions. it is seen by many as a failed instrument in promoting active and effective labour market policies. many doubts remain about the quality of the offer, and the ability of the programme, as implemented, to guarantee growth and to strengthen the employability of the individual and the consolidation of his skills. there are many cases where this instrument is used in ways that are aimed at employing low-cost labour without training purposes. i myself have received several reports that payments to trainees, many of whom have already completed their training, are not being made or are being unacceptably delayed, creating further hardship for thousands of young people who are living through the drama of unemployment.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the energy label is a european success story, begun more than 20 years ago and copied by everyone in the world. it is the commonly recognised passport that guarantees many products that are on the market and that enter the homes of 500 million citizens, to inform them about energy efficiency performance and other key characteristics. together with eco-design, the energy label has enabled european citizens to buy increasingly time-efficient washing machines, refrigerators, ovens, light bulbs and heaters in just a few years, thus saving enormous amounts of energy, harmful emissions and money, thus reducing disease, environmental damage and, not least, partially reducing the political dependence of our continent. the information capacity of the label has, however, lost its efficiency in recent years, and this is a matter of record. consumers are confused by too many different scales. the advent of the so-called "+" classes has made the difference between the steps and thus between the products less clear, in terms of energy consumption, price and other things. it is therefore right that this passport should be renewed and made more effective, taking advantage of the advances in information technology which are essential for representing and communicating the present and future market. in drawing up the draft report which i had the honour of chairing, i adopted the objectives of the original proposal with the aim of putting things back in order, eliminating the '+'s as soon as possible, digitising information and strengthening market surveillance. in recent months i have listened to the voices of consumers, industry, small and mediumsized enterprises, supervisory authorities, traders, standardisation bodies, non-governmental organisations, citizens registered with various political bodies. i have proposed a report which is deliberately broad and complex, with the aim of decisively strengthening the confidence of european citizens after the automobile scandals, which, let us remember, threaten the credibility of all our regulatory efforts. i hope that i have contributed to the proposal for a modern label, let's call it 2.0, in step with the times, able to be not only a sticker, but also a gateway to a product database, usable by everyone, with more information, comparable and finally described in their own language. the negotiations have led to a vote in committee on a solid text, which i believe is shared and balanced, and which was then unanimously approved by the itre committee and which will come to this house on wednesday for confirmation, i hope, with the same enthusiasm. among the various improvements in the text, the emphasis is on parliament's desire to strengthen the standard-setting mechanism underlying the allocation of efficiency classes; more transparency and more control and full consideration of the conditions of actual use of products; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we have agreed to set up a database in two sections, one public and one with access reserved for the competent authorities; a database, which will be available as soon as possible and will also be accessible via a label query code, will allow the evaluation and comparison of data and characteristics entered by manufacturers. we have identified an automatic mechanism for eliminating the "+" from the labels and therefore the a+, a++, a+++ classes in a certain and short time, with the only exception being the group of boilers which, due to their peculiar characteristics and market dynamics, require a longer time. we have also identified a general rule for so-called "scaling" based on the employment of the upper classes. a reassignment mechanism will be activated... (the president shall take the floor).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change and energy security also involve the free and informed choice of consumers who, by choosing solutions - in this case, energy-efficient appliances and devices - save energy, which in europe will reach 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent in 2020, equivalent to the entire primary energy requirement of italy over the course of a year. the focus on the efficiency of household appliances is therefore a sensible choice, in the interests of those who will have to use these appliances at home, but it also gives continuity and coherence to european policies on energy and climate, of which this legislation has become a major part. the text that has been rejected - and i also thank mr tamburrano for the excellent work he has done - is very agreeable. the new system of measuring the scale of the picture, which is based on the state of the art, and which takes into account and exempts certain typical features of the chain, such as overheating, updates and simplifies the pictographic scale, making it less ambiguous, clearer and more readable. i hope that in the negotiations with the council we will be able to maintain certain points.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank you for this very useful debate. i think there is a strong consensus and there is indeed a strong support to revise the energy label and make it more efficient in order to facilitate for the consumer. just a few words on the database. it is not going to be a huge administrative burden. it is actually only creating an obligation on manufacturers and importers to register the product model by uploading information that is already required under the different existing delegated acts. the technical documentation will only be accessible to market surveillance authorities, so thereby the data security will be secured. the commission already has experience with such databases, for instance in cosmetics. and regarding the costs, the actual costs could in fact be less than today because manufacturers no longer need to keep technical documentation available for market surveillance authorities for five years after the last product was manufactured. so hopefully this will be a useful tool for consumers, and not an extra burden. i agree that we need more, better and simpler standards for the whole of the internal market. unfortunately, we cannot solve that particular problem here today, but today we can send a strong signal that we are agreeing to do something important, to facilitate for the consumers, to do important work here to revise energy labelling and the commission very much looks forward to continuing working with the european parliament to finalise this proposal, and again i want to thank the rapporteur and the different shadow rapporteurs for the work that has been done here.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner and all the members for the work they have done together, for the appreciation and also for the criticisms they have received. criticism has also been useful in achieving a balanced report. in these months, as we wrote this report, i was working on my proposal and then in the subsequent negotiations i had an image in my mind, a dream: the idea of label 2.0 and what's possible, thanks to label reform and a qr code and a database. so i imagined that one day i myself could walk into a home appliance store and maybe see our new label in action and see some european citizen, as australian citizens have been able to do for many years, pointing with their mobile phone at the qr code and comparing, thanks to applications, more products, by virtue of consumption characteristics and comparing them not only on pre-established consumption patterns but also on patterns that are his own and his family's and being able to get from an app, imaginary for the moment but certainly to come, information on the actual costs of consumption of that appliance in monetary terms, in relation to its actual consumption and being able to choose the appliance that best meets the needs and allows you to recover the investment in more efficient and more expensive appliances, knowing also how much time. this is one of the examples of the label that i have imagined and that i hope to see in the real world soon and let's say that europe right now also needs a little success story because i hope that we will be able to move forward and progress all together
in writing. today's vote on energy efficiency labelling is a major milestone, coming at the end of a long process that has seen me at the forefront of the environment and industry committees. i am very pleased to say that this work has certainly borne fruit: the text which has been adopted today by the plenary reflects the progress and improvements made to the original commission text already during the work of the two parliamentary committees, in which we had succeeded in achieving important results in various respects. by returning to a single a-g scale for all products, we have tried to make the energy label clear again to consumers. we have established clear and predictable criteria for the periodic updating of labels, the so-called 're-scaling', to be implemented in line with the degree of technological development of each product group and in such a way as to ensure the durability and representativeness of the label; we have included more detailed and stringent provisions on market surveillance and conformity checks on products. i am glad that the text adopted in strasbourg does contain some new features, such as the possibility of including in the labels a reference to 'intelligent appliances', which are interconnected and can achieve greater energy savings.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the report i am about to present concerns, in my view, fundamental aspects of the european union's trade policy, namely the relationship between international trade and human rights, social rights, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility. i think that the report makes a clear call to the commission: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. we have too often found - and this is the point of the report - a sharp discrepancy between the verbal assertion of rights and their effective defence and enforcement. let us therefore try to give concrete indications on how to relaunch, through trade policy, the union's commitment to promote and protect human, social and environmental rights, along with democracy and the rule of law. we can't just go on like this. brexit, as well as the growing distrust of the european peoples towards this european union, should have given a clear signal about the need for discontinuity. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political body. i believe that this discontinuity is also necessary in trade policy, at a time when negotiations such as ttip and ceta, which could have enormous consequences for the lives of women and men in europe, are raising legitimate concerns, which are becoming more and more widespread in public opinion, also on the issues covered by this report: human rights, social and environmental standards. more generally, we could say, the relationship between commercial development and democracy. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we think it is deeply wrong, for example, not to involve national parliaments in the ratification of ceta: we need more democracy and more participation, not less democracy and less participation. we know that the union plays a crucial role in world trade: as the world's largest exporter of goods and services and the largest source of foreign direct investment, the union is taking a leading position in the global market, both through its participation in the wto and through its trade and investment agreements, which have helped to build an important piece of that extremely complex and contradictory process we call globalisation. the european union is a key player in this process. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the need for trade policy not to be directed solely at the profit of a few companies but to be part of a strategy of international relations aimed at promoting respect for human and social rights and the protection of the environment. to do that, and that is the very purpose of this report, for the first time in the committee on international trade, a report has emerged from an impact reflection and follow-up of three reports previously approved in 2010, while providing an assessment and guidance to the commission in the implementation of our trade policy. it was a long process of discussion and mediation, of rigorous discussion with the other shadow rapporteurs, whom i wish to thank here, as well as the shadow rapporteurs of the afet, deve, femm and empl committees. the report also gives some guidance on some of the key points which i want to briefly outline here. first of all, the need for legislative consistency. the union's trade policies must be developed in a manner consistent with policies on social protection, development, human rights and the environment. we affirm the centrality of a gender reading of impact assessments and trade policy choices and it is in the perspective of gender mainstreaming, which we are also working on in the committee on international trade, that we hope for a policy that is finally gender sensitive and no longer gender blind.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, what is international trade? i have too often, in following the debates in this parliament, had the impression that this was an objective in itself, an end in itself. but colleagues, no! trade is not the goal, it is only a means to other ends. trade is not the end, it is the race, the race to greater prosperity, equality and social progress for all. that is why the document which we want to guide the trade policy of the european union starts with this idea and goes on to lay down the conditions for the world's leading trading power to fulfil its role with responsibility, courage and prudence for its citizens and for all the citizens of the world. trade is not the end but the means. as rapporteur i am very proud of this first message, but it is the content of the resolution that makes me really proud. of course, this is a compromise text, but the fact remains that we have approved by a large majority in the committee a number of requests and priorities to make trade policy more transparent, accountable and effective. we have recognized the opportunities of trade and called for a trade policy that works for small and mediumsized enterprises, that creates opportunities in foreign markets for our farmers, for our service providers and, not least, for our industry, with agreements that bring tangible benefits to citizens, perhaps by exploring new markets. i am thinking in particular of australia and new zealand, but also of mercosur and africa. we know that trade is not just opportunity and it is not always a win-win. we have therefore called on the commission and the member states to implement policies to support the so-called losers of globalisation, and i personally think that this is another opportunity to reflect on social policies that dissociate income from work, such as minimum income or citizenship. but prevention is better than cure. that is why the resolution clearly speaks of the importance of careful impact studies, both ex ante and ex post, and of reform of trade defence instruments, clearly opposing the granting of market economy status to china, but also speaking of the defence of geographical indications and the fight against counterfeiting, in order to protect european excellence in the world. i am also very proud of all the paragraphs that insist on our responsibility for fair trade, respectful of rights and oriented towards the objectives of sustainable development. now, all the products we use every day, from cars to cell phones, are the result of a production chain that spans the entire world, with a small part of the value added in each country. the european parliament, in this document, calls for these global supply chains to be clean, sustainable and respectful; that there is a duty of care to know whether the goods you buy are bloodstained, whether they are produced by child labour or human rights violations. we have not stopped there, because we have called for the environment and animals to be included in the sustainability of trade, and we have called for greater control over compliance with the rules governing trade in protected species and farm animals. to ensure that our partners keep to these commitments, we are calling loudly for new free trade agreements to include binding sustainable development chapters with clear sanction mechanisms for those who do not respect their commitments in terms of respect for human rights and the environment and with investigations, which we want to be able to be initiated also at the request of the european parliament. the great opportunities for trade must of course be built on a solid foundation, which is the protection of european consumers and environmental, health and social standards. the resolution also calls for further reflection on those treaties and systems, such as isds and ics, which could put the interests of a few powerful people ahead of those of many citizens. citizens must be able to assess freely and at any time whether they are properly protected. we therefore call on the commission to step up its efforts to make trade policy more transparent, more understandable and more visible to the public, without more secret documents and meetings. we also make a clear appeal to the council to make it a matter of principle that parliament is consulted when negotiating mandates are drawn up and that its opinion is binding, and we also ask that all mandates approved be published. finally, the new media have increased the possibilities for citizens to participate and control the political life of the institutions. i come from a movement which has direct democracy as its flag, and i would therefore like to conclude by wishing the commission to be able to initiate more and more exchanges and dialogues with citizens on trade policy and to use the internet and the new media to give an ever more accurate account of its trade choices, thus directly ascertaining the opinion of those who are the main stakeholders, that is, the citizens. it is also possible that the negotiations on international treaties will one day be streamed live instead of being held behind closed doors, and that trade policy will become the first area of application of quasi-direct democracy. given the time, perhaps, this may seem like a dream but it is certainly a good dream. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their hard work and cooperation.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the house for this interesting debate. it has been very good and there are a lot of valuable suggestions in the reports by the two rapporteurs. when the commission presented its trade for all strategy it had three main objectives. first, of course, that the trade agreements we conclude should have effect: that they should actually bring benefits to our consumers, our citizens and our entrepreneurs. trade can be a formidable resource in fighting poverty and ensuring that people prosper. of course, we need to get it right, and this is something that our trade agreements are focusing on. we need to deal with the right issues as well: modern issues, such as services, e—commerce and intellectual property rights (ipr), while defending the very important manufacturing industry that we have in the european union. we need to make sure that consumers really get the benefits of our trade agreements and that we reach out in a better way to smes. we have, for instance, proposed a specific sme website in order to facilitate smes’ knowing about the trade agreements we conclude. a second goal was to emphasise the values of the european union. we cannot solve all the human rights problems on earth through trade agreements, we have to be realistic, but we can contribute – and we can do more by being more comprehensive, by using our various policies, on trade, development, foreign policy, investment etcetera, in a clever way. we can do more and we can enforce those values. we have chapters, in our agreements, on human rights, labour rights and sustainable development: they are enforceable and they are mandatory. we have a dedicated dispute settlement mechanism. and we want to go one step further. for instance, in the newly started negotiations with mexico, we even have the aim, in the mandate, of fighting corruption. the recent work that we have done jointly – parliament, the council and the commission – to reach conclusions, at least politically, on the conflict minerals agreement and on anti-torture policy is, i think, a good indication that trade can be responsible. the third goal was increased transparency. citizens want to be engaged, they want to be included, they want to know what trade is about. this is something that has become increasingly acute in recent times and it is mainly to be welcomed but it means that we must change the way that we implement our policy. we have committed to making our trade policy as transparent as possible. with the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), we are taking it as far as possible, and we want to do the same with all other trade agreements. here, we can do more to engage with citizens. this is the task of the commission, it is the task of member states and it is also your task: to engage, to explain, to listen, to bring back concerns and questions, and also to give reassurance when it is needed. we can do more, for instance, on gender equality. it is present in our trade strategy, we take it into account in our impact assessments. in the gsp+ we have included a requirement for observance of the convention on non-discrimination, for instance, but here too we can do more, and i would be happy to look in more detail at your suggestions. child labour is also an area at which we have been looking. we published a staff working document a few years ago on trade and the worst forms of child labour, and it shows that the worst forms are actually found in non-tradable sectors, so it is difficult to address this. however, we do follow it very closely with our trading partners – we have, for example, the gsp+ monitoring system – and we will continue to do so. trade is, as i said, debated, and this is good. we need to do more from the commission side and from parliament’s side. member states need to do more to make sure, too, that the trade agreements we conclude are beneficial for our citizens and also complementary vis-à-vis social policy and different protection measures. we are looking now, in the commission, at how the globalisation fund can be used in a more intelligent way to protect people who are not benefiting from globalisation or trade, and we are, of course, reaching out to a number of countries – both developing countries and developed countries – to negotiate trade agreements, and we will continue to do so, while committing to efficiency and transparency and to a value-based trade policy. thank you very much for this debate. thank you, honourable members, for your input. let us try to work together to make sure that trade is indeed responsible, sustainable and efficient.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just want to say, in conclusion, and thank the shadow rapporteurs and the speakers again for their cooperation, that many of the recommendations that this parliament made in 2010 have been ignored by the commission. today we are giving you a clear indication of a concept: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we call for a reform of the wto which will ensure respect for human rights, and for the ilo to be a permanent observer to the wto. we are calling for a reformulation of the human rights clause and the sustainable development clauses, for example, so that they are truly binding, and for the possibility of derogating from trade agreements when the real enjoyment of human rights is not guaranteed. we call for the ratification and transposition into national law of the eight plus four fundamental ilo conventions: we know how delicate this knot is when negotiating ttip with the united states, which has not signed all of them. we are calling for clear criteria for the identification of environmental assets. we are asking for action on issues such as the current intellectual property regimes. we strongly call for a shift from voluntary csr to a binding regulatory framework for multinationals. as you can see, these are very concrete indications which are intended to reiterate a concept: i am sorry to contradict the commissioner, but i do not think that ttip and ceta have gone in the right direction. greater transparency and greater democracy means giving everyone access to information; it is a matter of ensuring that human rights are not subordinated to the protection of profits.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this report, which has not been an easy task, because it has clearly been a compromise between very different ideas and opinions, including on trade. we have heard people tonight who are railing against free trade and competition and others who have emphasized it. i think what we have done is to send a clear message anyway - and i really appreciate the support we have had in the inta committee, which i hope to confirm tomorrow - that trade must be seen as a driver of development and well-being in an equitable way: the european union is a global community of citizens, not just for european citizens but for citizens everywhere. it is true that what we have achieved with this report is not a copernican revolution, but it is certainly a step in a better direction. to observe a reality, to see what is wrong, is not an exercise in great skill. we all can do that. the difference is that you start laying the foundation for something different. we are dealing with an economy which is already well established and with business practices which are already well established. our duty and our task is to make improvements. i believe that with these reports - both ours, as far as trade strategy is concerned, and the forenza report - we have laid the right foundations for taking trade in the desired direction, which is to create greater prosperity and not simply increase trade by a percentage, not knowing who will benefit from it. so i thank you all anyway and i look forward to a vote tomorrow that is in line.
in writing. unchecked globalisation risks having significant negative effects on social protection standards and employment levels. it is therefore important not to be spectators, and the union must instead organise itself strategically to be proactive. the commission's trade and investment strategy adopted in 2015 is therefore central, but it must be implemented within the broader framework of a coherent foreign policy. trade relations can and must also be a tool for promoting high standards of protection and promotion of human rights, as well as social protection and sustainable development. it is essential, i mean, that we be actors and not spectators of the phenomenon.
in writing. as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group on the committee on employment's opinion to the inta committee, i have been in favour of encouraging the application of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements, both bilateral and multilateral, from the outset, ensuring not only ratification but also effective implementation of these agreements, in line with the ilo recommendations. in order to provide incentives for the application of those standards, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of incentives for companies that promote corporate social responsibility (csr) and consider proactive measures to prevent human rights or environmental violations, to identify and prevent all human rights and environmental violations, including in relation to their branches and supply chain. the horizontal introduction of these standards can promote quality work and decent work. the involvement of the social partners in the monitoring mechanism which the commission is to put in place is essential. csr can play an important role in ensuring socially and economically sustainable growth and preventing corruption at european and international level. finally, i would like to see gender mainstreaming in trade policy and greater coordination between eu policies.
in writing. having regard to our support for the 'trade for all' strategy presented by the european commission for the preparation of a trade policy more consistent with the founding values of the european union and in line with the principles of the socialist and democratic group, we welcome the beghin report. we believe that the proposal responds to our call for trade agreements which are more attentive to the protection of the environment and workers' rights, to the objectives of reindustrialisation and to the need to regulate the phenomenon of globalisation in order to correct its side effects and ensure fair conditions of competition in the commercial arena. we have taken the opportunity to reiterate our opposition to the granting of market economy status to china. this choice, because the conditions are not met, would pose a serious threat to workers and would damage the competitiveness and sustainability of the european manufacturing system. we also emphasize the importance of protecting geographical indications in all trade negotiations within the european union. by protecting the historical excellence of the agri-food sector from harmful parasitism, also at the reputational level, geographical indications promote a key sector for the economy of rural areas and strengthen the 'made in' brand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the shock of the referendum, last week's summit, president tusk, should have been the turning point. we see lights but also shadows. let's start with the lights. the decision to say no to blackmail, to not negotiate before the notification of the withdrawal will be good. no to considering the european union as a menu from which you can choose the dishes you want: the four freedoms go together. if we want market access, then we must also accept the free movement of people. good on immigration: the european union is not a party to the agreement. but there are also shadows that would make me say that the mountain gave birth to the mouse. in the face of this crisis, the unity of the 27 which you mentioned, and which is welcome, should have brought a plan for relaunching and greater integration right away, but instead it preferred to postpone everything until september in bratislava, pretending not to understand that we are at a point of no return. i want to make this clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i don't understand where schäuble lives: but how can we say that the intergovernmental method has worked well in these years? where was schäuble during the greek crisis? what was his role? where were you during the migrant crisis? the objective of this offensive is clear: the commission's proposal is to try to marginalise the european commission as the centre of the community's engine. but we're not staying. we want to defend the community method, by defending president juncker and the european commission, we defend the community method against an intergovernmental revival which is absolutely unacceptable, because it is fruitless and harmful. i therefore call on the council to change its record. but i also want to address the commission, which has done well on many points: i urge you not to be afraid. i know, jean-claude, that you're a brave person. you must not be intimidated, you must move on. yes, the brexit negotiations must be swift and no time can be lost waiting for the tory party members to elect the new leader. this is absurd! it's like -- and jean-claude said it, manfred weber said it well -- it's like the heroes of the disaster let the disaster produce the rubble and come back here, to the place they have called hell. in the face of consistency. we must act: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon. we must put an end to austerity once and for all, applying the budgetary rules with flexibility and intelligence, and i say this again without wanting to open a debate with anyone. today, words and deeds must be marked by support, encouragement, not sanctions, punishments, and reprimands that ignore reality. today is the time for action, not postponement. unity in doing, not unity in watching.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, brexit could be more devastating for us than for the united kingdom: there is xenophobia in the british vote, but there is something else, and if we pretend to ignore it, xenophobia will take over europe. the nemesis of brexit does not fall from the sky: first came the contempt with which the union buried the greek anti-austerity referendum. we had a year to recognize that it was a pyrrhic victory. a wasted year! what are we gonna do now? delegate more sovereignty to the government? the other countries won't accept it. blaming universal suffrage will only punish us more. the class war is not over: the old impoverished classes and the new ones that we have deprived of a name, tell us, like the commander in don giovanni, "time is up". delegating powers to an increasingly deaf oligarchy to universal suffrage is pointless. only changing policies and democratizing them can do any good. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i agree, colleague: poverty is at the core, and so is the inability to deal with migration. there are proposals, from the left, there are proposals also for the integration of migrants and for growth based on ecology. it is a proposal which generally remains in the minority but that does not mean that it does not exist as a proposal.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i'd like to ask my colleague something. as you do when a national government, which must have the support of parliament, goes to brussels and, as prime minister monti said at the time, declares: "if i were to follow the opinion of the italian national parliament, i would not be able to decide jointly with my colleagues in the union". should national governments ignore their own parliaments in order to reach a european decision? i'm asking you honestly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate shows clearly a desire to cut the cord that still ties us to the united kingdom as soon as possible, by using the usual excuse of market uncertainty to penalise us all, the usual excuse of the markets to hide the one true truth that you really care about: i hope that the united kingdom will go through with brexit as a lesson to any other member state that might think of doing the same. yet, it would be enough to admit one's guilt: as when it was decided to bail out the banks at the expense of the citizens without actually reforming the banking and financial system; as when shameful austerity policies are applied but the migrant crisis cannot be solved; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. some people here say we need more europe, others say we need less europe. we say that we need a change and the only way to get it is for people like merkel, hollande, renzi, juncker and tusk to all go home.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the brexit: this result was a shock. but now we need clarity and foresight. of course, the referendum is not selective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must have the courage to get out of the ford and quickly. eurobarometer tells us that citizens want change above all. why, how do they see this europe? how is it perceived? they see it as weakened by the economic crisis, shaken by the massive phenomenon of migration, frightened by terrorism, a spectator and not a protagonist of what is happening in the world, even when it is happening in neighbouring geographical areas. we must change what needs to be changed in order to return to growth and ensure the social welfare of europeans. peace and prosperity were the promises of this europe and we must strengthen the political dimension to prevent technical drift. this requires strong initiatives; we must revive the dream of the founding fathers on a new and concrete basis. but as an italian, mr president tusk, let me say that i am happy with you about the results in the eastern mediterranean, even if the central mediterranean is waiting for answers that are just as quick, fast and definitive, otherwise this is a picture of an asymmetrical europe. and a ruling class, if there is one, that loves the european dream, can no longer afford that. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must give a strong and concrete response to the unjustified fears that the brexit campaign has fuelled, on social justice, equity, youth unemployment and better management of the migration phenomenon. migration is not a world problem but a global phenomenon and as such it should not be solved or opposed but managed in all its components. the fact that you say in your conclusions that the success of a migration policy is measured in terms of returns and readmissions only distances us from the idea of common and comprehensive management that this parliament voted on less than three months ago; but perhaps even more disturbing is the reference to the model to follow: the eu-turkey agreement, thanks to which you remind us that the crossing from turkey to the greek islands has now almost stopped! i call on the commission to take back the real content of the external dimension of migration policy, including through the preparation of real development policies and public investment with the person at the centre.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hoped that the trauma of brexit would also make european leaders aware of the need for a radical change, a leap forward in the process of european integration, which has been stuck in the middle, and to understand that if we do not complete the system, it is not only ineffective but in many ways counterproductive. it doesn't look like it. i read an interview with minister schäuble, who has an extraordinary talent for proposing the cause of problems as a solution. if we are in this mess it is precisely because of the prevalence of the intergovernmental method and national egoisms, which have prevented the union from fulfilling itself and functioning, on migration, fiscal, foreign and social policies. in brexit, we paid for years of governments gambling away the union's successes and blaming it for every problem, along with their inability to respond to the inequalities and uncertainties that have grown with the crisis. while the leave lions are cowardly in retreat from the consequences of the lies they have spoiled the debate, we must, with pain, take note of the vote and move on, because uncertainty hurts both sides. and if the council is going to marginalize the commission and parliament and the european citizens, it must find our fiercest opposition.
president of the commission. – mr president, for reasons i ignore i have been listening to the german translation for four and a half hours so i am in a german mood. herr präsident! ich habe dieser debatte aufmerksam zugehört. sie war hochinteressant, sehr oft bewegt, manchmal auch bewegend und hat doch mit dem brexit-thema nur indirekt zu tun gehabt. viele haben – im übrigen auch ich – heute das gesagt, was sie immer schon mal sagen wollten, und nutzen die entscheidung des britischen volkes als ursache, genau das zu sagen, was sie ohnehin sagen wollten. man muss ja sehen, worum es beim brexit ging. man komme mir nicht mit neuen lügen! beim großbritannien-votum, das wir respektieren – da braucht niemand sich hier schweißgebadet in den ring zu werfen, um uns davon zu überzeugen, dass wir dieses votum zu respektieren haben –, ging es doch nicht um den euro und die sogenannte, manchmal tatsächliche euro-austeritätspolitik. die briten in ihrer mehrheit haben doch nicht gegen die europäische union gestimmt, weil sie probleme mit schengen hatten, denn schengen findet ja keine anwendung in großbritannien. die briten haben doch nicht gegen europa gestimmt, weil sie gegen die europäische verteidigungsunion wären, denn es gibt nämlich keine europäische verteidigungsunion. die briten haben doch nicht gegen eine europäische armee gestimmt, denn es gibt keine europäische armee. also sollte man das votum der briten nicht umdeuten, um in dem zielgebiet zu landen, in dem man immer schon landen wollte. (beifall) ich höre die botschaft sehr wohl, dass wir die europäische union modernisieren sollen. ja tun wir denn etwas anderes? diese kommission ist doch eine reformkommission, handelt im rahmen eines mandates, das sie vom europäischen rat erhielt. dieses mandat hat sich reformagenda genannt, und diese kommission handelt aufgrund eines programms, das vom europäischen parlament in seiner überwältigenden mehrheit als richtig empfunden wurde. dies wird stück für stück umgesetzt, und ich lasse mir nicht einreden, dass das, was wir gemeinsam verabredet haben, jetzt plötzlich falsch sein soll, weil die briten aus nicht mit euro und sozialunion zusammenhängenden gründen für den brexit gestimmt haben. ich sage ihnen, wieso die briten für den brexit gestimmt haben: wer vierzig jahre lang erzählt – politiker aller parteien, und keine regierung hat sich da durch besonderen europamut in die herzen der menschen eingeschlichen –, die europäische union wäre nix, würde zu nichts führen, würde die briten in ihrem freiheitsdrang einschränken, wäre eine erfindung gegen die völker der europäischen union, wäre eine kampfmaschine des internationalen großkapitals, und soziale rechte gebe es nicht, der darf sich nicht wundern, wenn dann am ende des tages viele das glauben und auch dementsprechend ihr votum abgeben. es wurde über jahrzehnte gelogen, und das resultat ist jetzt da. (beifall) und das geht so weiter. ich lese – nicht nur in britischen zeitungen –, was alles an neuen erfindungen ersonnen wird. da lese ich, die kommission – meistens der kommissionspräsident – würde daran denken, jetzt übermorgen den euro in allen mitgliedstaaten der europäischen union einzuführen. ich denke nicht daran, und diejenigen, die das betrifft, denken übrigens auch nicht daran. ich lese, ich hätte die schotten aufgefordert, sich von großbritannien unabhängig zu erklären. das habe ich nicht gemacht. die briten wissen ja, wie sie innerbritische probleme lösen, wie man am 23. juni festgestellt hat. das problem werden sie auch lösen. ich lese – nicht nur in britischen zeitungen –, juncker möchte den nationalstaat abschaffen. das möchte ich überhaupt nicht! von mir haben sie noch nie gehört, dass ich für die causa vereinigte staaten von europa plädiert habe. ich bin der meinung, europa kann man nicht gegen die nationen und nicht ohne die nationen auf den richtigen weg bringen. nationen sind keine provisorische erfindung der geschichte, sie sind auf dauer eingerichtet, und das haben die europäer zu respektieren. und das ist im übrigen alles andere als ein widerspruch – nationen und europäische union gehen zusammen! deshalb warne ich vor einer vereinfachung der debatte. wir müssen das tun, was wir uns vorgenommen haben. ich plädiere nicht für große institutionelle reformen. ich bin auch gegen vertragsreformen zum jetzigen moment, weil ich dagegen bin, dass man gräben vertieft, anstatt die gräben zuzuschütten. aber dass einige langzeitprojekte entwickeln, das darf doch nicht verboten sein! ich werde derartige projekte nicht entwickeln, weil ich ja für das kurzfristige zuständig bin. wir hatten uns vorgenommen, groß im großen und klein im kleinen zu sein. genau das tun wir. die kommission hat über 100 gesetzesentwürfe zurückgezogen und bringt nur noch 23 neue initiativen pro jahr auf den weg. ist das nun entbürokratisierung, oder ist das keine? es ist entbürokratisierung! die kommission wird für vieles in haftung genommen, was überhaupt nicht sache der kommission ist. schauen sie sich doch mal die entscheidungswege in der europäischen union an. sehr oft sind es die mitgliedstaaten, manchmal sogar das parlament, das sich im klein-klein verläuft, nicht notwendigerweise die kommission. diese regeln müssen wir ändern, oder finden sie es normal, dass die kommission eine entscheidung über glyphosat treffen muss, obwohl es keine eindeutige mehrheit im ministerrat gibt? das ist nicht normal! das ist undemokratisch. so viele rechte dürfte die kommission überhaupt nicht haben. ich würde gerne die rechte abgeben, die nicht demokratisch fundiert sind, und davon gibt es, wie ich finde, eine lange liste. (beifall) zum ceta möchte ich ein wort sagen. frau zimmer, sie sollten sich da nicht in eifer reden. wir haben einen gipfel mit kanada am 27. oktober, und dort soll das ceta-abkommen unterschrieben werden. da darf der kommissionspräsident doch wohl im europäischen rat nachfragen, ob noch alle mitgliedstaaten zu diesem abkommen stehen. alle mitgliedstaaten erklären, die europäische union hätte noch nie ein derartig gutes und gelungenes handelsabkommen mit drittstaaten abgeschlossen. und ich muss doch darauf hinweisen dürfen – wo sind wir denn, dass man das nicht mehr darf –, dass es der rechtsstandpunkt der kommission ist, dass dies ein nur-eu-abkommen wäre! und ich sage ihnen folgendes: die kommission wird darüber heute beraten, ich bin doch nicht stur und habe das auch mehrfach zum ausdruck gebracht, aber wer hier im hause so tut, als ob das europäische parlament, von den bürgern europas direkt gewählt, keine demokratische instanz wäre, die entscheiden dürfte, der soll sich überlegen, ob er hier am richtigen platz sitzt. (beifall) nun hören wir in die debattenlage in den mitgliedstaaten hinein – ich bin ja nicht taub, ich höre, was gesagt wird –, und die kommission wird dieser tage in dieser frage endgültig zu werke gehen. der langen rede kurzer sinn: wir sollen nicht weitermachen wie bisher, aber die europäische union kann die probleme nicht lösen, die die mitgliedstaaten nicht imstande sind, zu lösen. wir brauchen die europäische union, die kommission, das parlament und die mitgliedstaaten. und im übrigen, weil herr lucke wieder aufgetaucht ist: wenn ich sie richtig verstanden habe, soll ich zurücktreten. ich ziehe mir den schuh nicht an, dass die kommission an dem ausgang des britischen referendums schuld gewesen wäre. (beifall)
president of the european council. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions to today’s debate. it is fully understandable that the events of the past days have produced a lot of negative emotions, but we cannot give in to these emotions. we have to preserve the ability to make sober assessments and rational decisions. first, i would like to stress that the eu is ready to proceed with an amicable divorce with the uk even today. in this process we will stand firmly on the grounds of the treaties, which have prepared us for such a situation. and one thing must be clear: the treaties have left the decision on the initiation of the divorce proceedings to the member state that wishes to leave the eu. in other words, we cannot effectively force this decision on the uk. secondly, before launching the divorce proceedings we will not undertake any negotiations on the future shape of relations between the eu and the uk. future relations will be based on a balance of rights and obligations. i would like to reassure you that, wherever there may be a conflict of interest, we will act in the interests of the eu and we will do so effectively. thirdly, today we have heard a lot of severe and critical comments aimed at member states. i want to tell you that in our talks with the leaders of member states i always repeat that there is no eu without the eu institutions. in the current situation, attacks on the eu institutions, including the commission and parliament, can only deepen the confusion. the national capitals must make an effort to stop accusing the eu and its institutions of weaknesses and failures. (applause) the referendum in the uk was lost in part because the political elite have for years been building a negative and often unfair vision of the eu. but there is no eu without the member states either. it is impossible to solve serious problems in the eu against the will of the member states. taking responsibility for one’s own words applies also to the representatives of eu institutions. today, we must combine all our efforts to agree on what our common interest is, as opposed to constantly demonstrating our individual importance in some kind of perpetual vanity fair.
in writing. the meeting of heads of state or government on 28 and 29 june was the first since the referendum of 23 june, which confirmed the will of the british people to leave the union. on the one hand, progress on key issues such as the management of the migration crisis and the creation of a single market can be welcomed, but on the other hand, the response to brexit is still insufficient. the union's priority today is to manage this phase in a clear and timely manner, avoiding a period of uncertainty which would be very costly for both sides. the next step will be to start a process of reform and relaunching the project of european integration: the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. on the rubble of brexit, it is time to rebuild a union that is more social and closer to the citizens. we cannot wait any longer for those who, without a sense of responsibility, reason only on the basis of purely national logic and interests.
in writing. last week's european council had to deal with crucial issues for europe. in the aftermath of brexit, it was clear that the discussion and attention would be catalyzed by the drastic choice of britain, which we must accept and which must be followed up as soon as possible. what is more astonishing is that no one, not even the people who set up that referendum, were really prepared for brexit and then after the decision came before the 27 member states - and even more so before the british people - with a plan of action for the rebuilding of the united kingdom after the european union. but if it was clear that the british case could not be resolved, or even clarified, at a meeting of the 28, then this european council must continue to make great strides towards resolving other crucial issues affecting the union. brexit or not, this council has finally begun the implementation phase of the migration compact. it is a fundamental step because unfortunately the agreement with turkey has not affected the mediterranean routes and has not reduced the number of victims at sea, let alone the number of disembarkations. the fact that brexit has paralysed britain is a fact, but it must not paralyse europe either
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other details on the votes: see minutes)
mr bütikofer, this is not an error because, since the first part of paragraph 18 was rejected, the second part has lapsed, which is why the appeal by name was indeed concerning recital c.
it's all clear. anyway, if you want to vote again, we'll vote again. we therefore vote in favour of recital c.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, britain has voted to leave the european union. we have been clear in parliament about the need and urgency of doing this now: no hesitation or hesitation the positions are clear, at least as far as we are concerned. each one chooses his own future. britain has chosen this by saying out, we respond in, but we refer to growth, stability to social justice, to true integration, to common values. we are talking about a europe which, after this historic and unfortunately bitter decision, must now set out again to move forward rapidly towards a union which is truly at the side of the citizens. we must give a strong and clear answer immediately and without hesitation to those who, under the influence of a populism for electoral purposes alone, want to destroy europe and want to stifle the will of so many young people who believe in europe and look to europe as their future. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution and i ask that it be put forward, quickly and firmly, because from here we are going to build a better europe.
in writing. ‒ the european union is strongly committed to establishing better economic, commercial and political relations with the territory of peru. the granting of visa-free short-stay visas on the basis of reciprocity is therefore an important step forward in the further and gradual rapprochement of the two cultures. given that peru poses no threat to public security and order, such an exemption will certainly make it easier for european citizens to stay in the country for work or tourism. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report on the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and for peruvian citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. peru is a key partner in the fight against organised crime. a strengthening of relations can only encourage effective future action in this area, also ensuring a more regular political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the text of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver is well structured and does not present any problems, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support the new agreement between the european union and peru on the short-stay visa waiver as a privileged instrument to promote economic exchanges and foster the development of tourism in both territories. peru is one of the leading emerging countries in latin america, with stable and steady economic growth over the last decade and a relatively strong democracy. the european union is peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports, the main recipient of its exports and the main foreign investor in the territory, particularly in the banking and mining sectors. i believe that this new arrangement will also strengthen cultural relations between the two areas and intensify cooperation on a wide range of issues, not least the protection of human rights and the fight against drug trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an important step in the process of deepening relations between the european union and the republic of peru. this measure not only helps to strengthen economic and cultural relations but also intensifies political dialogue on sensitive issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will boost tourism and help to strengthen trade and investment relations. peru, we recall, with 5% in 2013 and 2.4% in 2014, has recorded the highest economic growth in latin america. in terms of trade, the eu is peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports and the main recipient of its exports, mainly in the agri-food and mineral sectors. the republic of peru supports a number of investment projects, particularly in water infrastructure. the mining sector is still the main driver, but major efforts are being made to diversify the sector in order to promote tourism as much as possible. the tourism sector is experiencing a very strong expansion, becoming the second sector of the peruvian economy since 2012.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver has political significance and marks an important milestone in the eu's relations with other countries. it is also an instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. peru has fulfilled the conditions for accession.
in writing. ‒ over the past decade, relations between the european union and the republic of peru have strengthened considerably to the point that the eu is now the main recipient of peruvian exports as well as the largest investor in the country. political and economic stability underpinned the conditions which made it possible to grant peruvian nationals visa-free entry conditions to the territory of the member states for short stays. the visa agreement will further strengthen relations between the two parties and give new impetus to trade and to the tourism sector, which has become the second sector of the peruvian economy. cooperation with the country will be equally important in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking. the signing of the strategic cooperation agreement between peru and europol is a source of hope. i voted in favour of the mandate for the conclusion of the eu-peru agreement because i believe there is no risk of illegal migration by peruvian citizens and also because the information campaign carried out by the peruvian government on visa provisions protects the eu from such phenomena.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an 'agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver', because i believe that the agreement can be a tool to increase economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the republic of peru and a tool to strengthen relations in the field of trade and investment.
in writing. ‒ this agreement with peru follows several others on the short-stay visa waiver. i agree with this proposal because i believe that giving greater freedom of movement can benefit both european citizens and the citizens of peru. i believe that greater opportunities for travel, without the long and complicated bureaucratic procedures, will greatly facilitate both the influx of tourists into europe and the movement of businessmen who are obliged to travel frequently for work. therefore, as a stable democracy and an important partner in latin america, the republic of peru deserves equal treatment. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of peru is a useful tool for strengthening economic, political and cultural relations. the result is also positive for the intensification of the dialogue on the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of the agreement, which also allows the harmonization of the visa regime for the state of peru with the other latin american countries which have already liberalized visas for short stays in third countries. the agreement will boost tourism and help to strengthen trade and financial relations between the european union and peru. in addition, peru can become an important partner in the fight against organised crime by strategically cooperating with the european police office.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has today delivered a recommendation to the european commission on the implementation and monitoring of the agreement between the eu and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver signed on 9 june 2015. this agreement is an important step in the deepening of relations between the european union and peru, allowing the economic, social and cultural relations between the two continents to be further intensified and the political dialogue to be encouraged. the recommendation today calls on the commission to monitor closely the possible developments in the criteria which made the agreement possible. those criteria include not only security, public order and the control of illegal immigration, but also the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including in particular issues related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the measure also calls on the commission and the peruvian authorities to ensure full reciprocity of the visa waiver in order to allow equal treatment of all citizens, in particular of all citizens of the union. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver to strengthen economic, political and cultural relations between the european union and peru. the agreement will facilitate european trade in the peruvian state, where the eu is already present with numerous investment projects, particularly in water, transport and energy infrastructure. from a cultural point of view, increased movement of peruvian citizens will help to promote tourism within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the eu and peru. this instrument is essential to boost tourism, trade and the european economy more generally. the abolition of visas will facilitate economic and business relations between the eu and peru, a country which offers legal security and political stability, essential guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises. cooperation between the two countries will not be limited to strengthening economic relations: peru is a key partner in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking, which are very important aspects for effective cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i believe that its implementation will be mutually beneficial to the eu and peru. in terms of economics, it will be easier for tourists to travel between peru and the eu and it will serve to improve the trade and investment relations between us. the agreement will also serve to improve the eu’s political dialogue with peru and it will help us cooperate in areas where we share common interests such as fighting organised crime and trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement represents the final step in a process of strengthening diplomatic, cultural, social and economic relations between the eu and peru and will give a further impetus to the process of strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law in the andean country. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for community and peruvian citizens to peru and the member states of the european union respectively for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this exemption will apply irrespective of the reason for the stay, unless it is an activity for which payment is due and which requires the normal procedures. finally, it contributes to a strong boost to tourism, trade relations and economic growth, and to a greater dynamism in relations with peru. nevertheless, it can facilitate and make more effective the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking in the territories of both contracting parties.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and the republic of peru is a further instrument to strengthen mutual economic and cultural relations and to increase political dialogue on various aspects, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement is likely to provide a strong boost to tourism and will help to strengthen relations in the field of trade and investment; this has allowed peru to record the highest economic growth in latin america in the last decade. in terms of trade, the eu ranks as peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports and the main recipient of its exports. peru can become a key partner in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking, which can be important aspects of cooperation.
in writing. – regarding the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver, i voted in favour, as the implementation of this agreement will undoubtedly strengthen the rapprochement between the european union and peru. the republic of peru is a democratic country and supports equivalent values to those of the european union. its economic growth rate has been more than 80% for the past 10 years, one of the highest rates of growth in latin america. around 43% of applicants received multiple-entry visas in 2014, and the visa rejection rate in 2015 was only 3%. all above, this proves the need to implement the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver is a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal from my colleague because i believe that the extension of the short-stay visa waiver to the republic of peru will contribute to a clear improvement in political, economic and commercial relations between the eu on the one hand and the republic of peru on the other. sharing the union's values, the principles of democracy and the rule of law make peru an essential partner for the european union. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, which it has not yet adopted. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of peru who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. i would like to point out that peru has the highest economic growth in latin america (5% in 2013, 2.4% in 2014). in terms of trade, the eu is peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports (mainly transport machinery and equipment) and the main recipient of its exports (agro-food and mining products). i am convinced that this agreement can foster cooperation between the eu and peru and create greater growth opportunities for both sides. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this agreement.
in writing. ‒ in line with the majority in the parliament, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the european union is not new to such agreements, and in fact, during the june plenary session, the european parliament was asked to give its approval to a series of agreements aimed at exempting third-country nationals from visa requirements when travelling to europe for short periods. i look positively at this kind of simplification, which seems to me to be in line with one of the pillars on which the eu itself is founded, namely the right to free movement. in a rather dark period for the union, in which nationalist impulses have produced the results we all know by now, this administrative simplification seems to me to be an important sign of europe's opening up to the outside world and an interesting move from an economic point of view. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ in its recommendation adopted today, the european parliament has expressed its support for the agreement on visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and peruvian citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the republic of peru is an important trading partner for the european union in latin america: the country has experienced steady growth over the last decade of over 80%, placing it among the top ten countries in the world that have experienced the highest growth over that period. moreover, the eu remains peru's largest investor, accounting for more than 50% of total foreign direct investment in sectors such as the extractive industries, banking and finance. since this agreement is an important instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations between the two countries, i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the category of 'non-road mobile machinery' (nrmm) covers a wide variety of engines and tools, generally installed in machines intended for the transport of persons or goods. their use in europe is thought to be responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of particulate matter. the eu has therefore started an interinstitutional negotiation procedure with the aim of revising the emission limits for these substances. the text of the agreement has been substantially amended during the negotiations, providing for a number of concessions, derogations and significantly lowering expectations, particularly for engines intended for inland waterway navigation. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ according to the european commission, air pollution in the union costs between eur 330 and 940 billion annually. in addition to these economic costs, there are also the human costs of poor air quality. the european environment agency has estimated that about 72,000 premature deaths are attributable to nitrogen dioxide and another 403,000 to particulate matter. these are worrying figures and require a more decisive eu response. i am voting in favour of the gardini report because i believe this. the proposal for a regulation adopted reduces the limits imposed by the commission, but undertakes to maintain a balance between the competitiveness of enterprises and the protection of the environment. the legislation provides in particular for the definition of different categories and subcategories of engines, setting for each of them emission limits for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm), and also foresees deadlines for their implementation from 2018.
in writing. ‒ the text is well structured and free of criticism. in addition, the new legislation on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery has been drawn up taking into account the difficulties that our companies may encounter in adapting to the new community provisions. i therefore intend to support the report by my vote.
in writing. ‒ non-road mobile engines are responsible for around 15% of carbon dioxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union. this regulation has struck an acceptable balance between the need to protect the health of our citizens and the environment on the one hand, and the need to ensure the competitiveness of european industry on the other. we hope that this approach to harmonisation and the pursuit of balanced and sustainable progress will always be the practice of the eu, which must put the protection of the health of its citizens and of the businesses producing and operating in the eu first.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation in question because it will make it possible to overcome the shortcomings of the current directive 68/97 on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery, which is being implemented due to its limited scope and the difficulties in adapting rapidly to technological developments in the field of engines. firstly, i think it is most appropriate that this time we have chosen to use a regulation, which will ensure, on the one hand, that the provisions apply immediately to manufacturers, type-approval authorities and technical services; the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. furthermore, the extension of the scope in order to promote market harmonisation will minimise the risk of (market) distortions, while the envisaged general and specific transitional periods will allow engine and machine manufacturers sufficient time to adapt to the new constraints. it is regrettable that the trilogue was not able to close the door on certain exemptions which, however, will not have much impact on the proper functioning of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on this report because i am not satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations with the council and the commission on the need to update the emission limits for non-road mobile machinery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on 'emission limits and type approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery' as i believe that its effective implementation would bring significant environmental benefits and could contribute to the competitiveness of european industry and the proper functioning of the internal market for the sector, improving transparency and reducing administrative burdens. i believe that the regulation could also remove external trade barriers and regulatory barriers by aligning the eu and us emissions requirements, also in the interests of the ongoing ttip agreement between the eu and the us.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a very sensitive issue. i am convinced that a reduction in polluting emissions can greatly benefit the environment around us and in which we live. i agree with the proposal by my colleague, the rapporteur, elisabetta gardini, to revise the current directive in order to bring it into line with the technical progress that has been and is still being made. technology is making great strides every year, and i believe we should take advantage of these innovations to have a cleaner and healthier environment. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation is positive because it has the dual objective of improving health and environmental protection standards and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market by removing trade barriers for combustion engines. as regards environmental protection, the implementation of this regulation would bring significant benefits by reducing emissions from new engines which will, over time, replace older and more polluting engines. as regards the competitiveness of european industry, the aim is to reduce the risks of market distortion by simplifying type-approval legislation, improving transparency and reducing administrative burdens. moreover, by aligning eu and us emissions requirements, it removes barriers to foreign trade and reduces regulatory barriers. in order to allow manufacturers of combustion engines to adapt to changes in production while respecting the requirements of this regulation, it is appropriate to introduce a sufficient degree of flexibility, allowing for adaptation to new production standards without hampering the competitiveness of eu companies.
in writing. ‒ the non-road mobile machinery sector is a major contributor to air pollution, because of its harmful emissions in the form of gases or particulate matter. according to recent data from the european commission, this represents 15% of all nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of all particulate matter in the union, with very serious consequences for both the environment and health. these reasons made a review of directive 97/68/ec urgent. the new regulation adopted today introduces stricter limits on the emission of pollutant gases from vehicles and defines a 'tiered' approach, i.e. differentiated according to engine size and machine type. this is a reasonable choice because it allows for the gradual introduction of the sector concerned by the new requirements and takes into account the wide variety of machines and engines being produced. i believe that effective and rapid implementation of the rules laid down in this regulation will help to improve the impact of non-road mobile machinery on air quality, with considerable benefits for our citizens both in terms of the environment and health. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on 'emission and type-approval limits for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery' because i share the eu's air quality policies aimed at protecting health and the environment. the resolution proposes a gradual reduction in emissions and the replacement of older engines which cause the most pollution, thus providing for legislation common to all member states aimed at the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, emissions from non-road mobile machinery (a wide range of engines, from the smallest powered hand tools to locomotive engines) are estimated to account for 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of particulate matter and their use, particularly in urban centres where their concentration becomes a significant source of air pollution. the revision of the current legislation was necessary in order to establish stricter limits that took account of technological progress. the negotiation of the package, after extensive concessions to the council, has undergone major changes aimed at extending both the categories to be granted derogations and their duration, delaying the implementation of the legislation and reducing the level of ambition for the reduction of both nox and particulate matter and, finally, a low commitment to ensure retrofitting on existing machinery. the only positive aspect of the negotiations is that they have resulted in the definition of important technical details through delegated acts rather than implementing acts. therefore, in the final vote, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in its handling of the issue of emission limits for non-road mobile machinery, parliament pursued one particular objective: to achieve a reasonable balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of the european manufacturing sector, the jobs and skills it generates. the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations shows that this objective has been achieved only partially. we share the need to update the emission limits for these machines, but the result achieved is unsatisfactory, especially because of the long delays in implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for two reasons. first, the protection of smaller operators is ensured by guaranteeing them the use of machinery for the period of its intended service life. secondly, stricter emission limits are foreseen for non-road mobile machinery, aligning them with the values in force on the us and japanese markets.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which allows italian manufacturing companies to adapt quickly to industrial competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i thank mrs gardini and congratulate her on reaching an agreement at first reading. i voted with conviction for the amendments to the proposal for a regulation because i believe that the commitment to combat climate change must be truly horizontal and must be pursued consistently: the vote today will regulate a sector - non-road mobile machinery - which is a major contributor to emissions. i therefore believe it is very important to step up the reform of european environmental policies, so that our production is increasingly geared to sustainability, efficiency and excellence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery because reducing emissions from such equipment is a key element in ensuring clean and healthy air for all european citizens. the category of non-road mobile machinery covers a wide range of equipment and vehicles, including inland waterway vessels, which are a major source of air pollution and generate around 15% of total nox emissions and around 5% of total pm emissions. the ep agreed with the commission's initial choice to create the conditions for a modest degree of harmonisation between the legislation and requirements for non-road machinery and the legislation on vehicle emissions, including the establishment of a national authority responsible for monitoring. the result of the agreement between the council and the ep, thanks also to the s&d group's action, is essentially balanced against the ambition shown in setting the reduction targets and the problem of the equipment currently in use. i'm looking forward to a transition period.
in writing. air quality is of vital importance for the protection of both the environment and the health of our citizens. reasonable emission limits protect the people who operate these machines, while ensuring the viability of manufacturing in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr gardini on the emission and type approval limits for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. in general, the proposed regulation aims to help address public health concerns raised by some studies, improve air quality in general and create a barrier-free market, not only at union level but also with our main trading partners around the world. the health and safety of our citizens is a key aspect of this proposal, especially for those who work with these machines every day, as they are particularly exposed to polluting emissions.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the non-road mobile machinery sector causes significant harmful emissions to public health. although representing a small percentage of the sector, non-road mobile machinery emits as much as 15% of all nitrogen oxide and 5% of particulate matter produced in the european union. in the belief that stricter measures are needed in the sector under consideration, i believe that the amendments tabled by my colleague to the commission's proposal for a regulation should be welcomed, in so far as they revise the categories of machinery affected by the replacement of engines in line with the provisions of directive 97/68/ec and opt for a reduction in administrative obligations. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal for a regulation aims, firstly, to help address public health concerns, improve air quality and create a barrier-free market, not only at union level but also with its main trading partners worldwide. the non-road mobile machinery sector is one of many sectors contributing to harmful emissions in the form of gases or particulate matter. to address this problem, the commission proposes to set stricter standards for most engines already covered by the current directive 97/68/ec and to extend this scope to new engine power ranges, new types of combustion and fuels, and a number of new categories of machinery, with the aim of closing the gaps in the legislation. the regulation therefore sets new emission limits for engines installed in non-road machinery such as construction, agricultural, locomotive and inland waterway vessels. this is certainly a legislative act that increases the protection of the health of citizens and helps to combat global warming. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the adoption of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ in line with the majority in parliament, i voted in favour of the report by mr gardini, epp, on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery. the envi committee has worked towards stricter emission limits, with the aim of safeguarding not only the environment but also the health of workers using this type of machinery, such as construction machinery or agricultural equipment. as a member of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis), i was able to learn more about this subject. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's ambitious proposal, because engines for non-road mobile machinery make a significant contribution to the problem of nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions. i would also like to stress that industry is also being looked at, because the limits and changes envisaged for the engines in question can be introduced in due course, and especially for smes, which are given more time to comply with the new standards envisaged.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation aims to update european type-approval rules and emission limits for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery such as lawnmowers, bulldozers, diesel engines and inland waterway vessels. according to a commission study, non-road mobile machinery emits 15% of all nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of all particulate matter in the union. this text provides for a 'step-by-step' approach to allow for a gradual introduction of new engines in the sectors affected by the new requirements. as the agreement reached seeks to strike a reasonable balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of the european manufacturing sector, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ as is often reported, air quality levels in many urban areas in the union are such as to pose risks to people and the environment: the european environment agency estimates that 72,000 premature deaths are attributable to nitrogen dioxide (no2) and 403,000 to particulate matter, with an estimated annual cost of hundreds of billions of euros. that is why i voted in favour of the regulation updating the emission standards and limits for non-road machinery such as bulldozers, agricultural and construction machinery and inland waterway vessels, which account for about 15% of european nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions harmful to health. the aim is to address public health concerns raised by studies showing the probable carcinogenic nature of ultrafine particulate matter, to improve air quality, while maintaining the competitiveness of european companies in the sector through the gradual and diversified introduction of these new standards. in fact, i believe that, in the face of these concerns, the text adopted today strikes a reasonable balance between the objectives of protecting public health and the environment and the competitiveness of the european manufacturing sector, the jobs and skills it generates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report because i believe that it is absolutely essential to help ensure that the environment and health are protected through a fairer and more integrated single market. this regulation aims to reduce emissions and red tape by setting stricter limits for polluting emissions from engines installed on non-road mobile machinery and by establishing harmonised standards for european markets in line with international standards. these objectives are certainly positive for the protection of the environment and contribute to growth and an increase in the employment rate. support for this proposal is a clear sign of the will to significantly reduce air pollution, improve the health of citizens and increase the competitiveness of businesses, through increased investment and legal certainty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union is being put to the test every day by the human pressure that the migration crisis is exerting on its borders, and in particular on the shores of the mediterranean. the outcome of the british referendum is one of the institutional consequences of this exodus to the old continent of millions of people fleeing war, disease and hunger. i would like to join the rapporteur in stressing the importance of creating job opportunities for refugees, not only to guarantee them an income and thus not be a burden on the social system of the community and individual countries, but above all to avoid the horrible phenomenon of social dumping. the figures on youth unemployment in europe are alarming: the average age of those who arrive on our shores is very low. the growing number of unaccompanied foreign minors is a very strong signal. the principles of equal treatment and equal opportunities, as a compass for social inclusion and integration policies, must therefore be kept in mind. but at the same time we must avoid any competition between the most disadvantaged groups in our society.
in writing. ‒ the deep migration crisis europe is experiencing makes it imperative to find solutions in harmony with the european principles of solidarity and respect for human rights. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. in fact, facilitating the process of social inclusion and integration of refugees is of paramount importance, not only to support the member states most affected by the phenomenon, but above all to avoid further social tensions. for these reasons, and considering the migration emergency to be a european problem, i voted in favour, hoping for a clear and resolute commitment from all the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european economy, still in the throes of a serious crisis, is still experiencing high unemployment rates, particularly among young people. in this difficult context, the presence of exceptional numbers of refugees and asylum seekers risks triggering processes of social disintegration and conflict if not managed appropriately. the report on the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees, which i have prepared, aims to provide an up-to-date analysis of the situation, proposing policies and good practices for their integration into the labour market and society. the text stresses first of all the need to restore human dignity and self-respect by enabling refugees to achieve economic independence. integration measures should not take away from financial resources already allocated to programmes for other disadvantaged groups, but require additional social investment. the european social fund should be reduced to 25% of the cohesion policy budget, and the directive on reception conditions should also be amended to allow for faster access to the labour market; the need to increase available public investment and provide additional financial resources to be allocated directly to local and regional public administrations, civil society and voluntary organisations.
in writing. ‒ in europe there are 22 million unemployed citizens and 122 million poor people. there is no need for new labour in italy and europe. the benifei report, on the other hand, is dominated by the false goodwill of the left, which does not at all stress that the real refugees, the real refugees, are only 30% of the illegal immigrants arriving in italy. moreover, the term 'refugees' means people who are not destined to stay in europe but who will return to their country of origin once the ongoing conflicts have ended. this is why discussions on long-term integration are pointless. the truth is that the immigration business plays into the hands of the corporations: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. i have therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis we face every day must not only be seen as an unprecedented challenge, but also as an opportunity, both for refugees themselves and for our societies. the economic situation in europe is still very fragile, with very high unemployment and slow economic growth. in this particularly complex situation, the integration of refugees is crucial: the european union has a long-term strategy for the protection of the environment, and the european union has a long-term strategy for the protection of the environment. in this respect, i agree with mr benifei's report, which identifies the instruments for achieving these objectives, in particular investment at european level with a wider use of the structural funds, the updating of the relevant directives to prevent the exploitation of these people through undeclared work and to guarantee them legal access to the labour market, and the stronger involvement of the social partners in the definition of integration policies at european level. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the management of the refugee crisis is one of the issues that has most affected public opinion in recent years. it is a real problem affecting millions of lives in the mediterranean, a historical fact that cannot be solved by individual states but must be addressed by the union as a whole: it is a problem for all of us, not just the countries of southern europe, and only if we all work together can we overcome it. a comprehensive approach to migration focusing on the eu's external policies, such as cooperation with third countries, humanitarian and development aid, trade, investment and security and defence policies, is needed to address the root causes of migration in an integrated manner: conflict, poverty, lack of freedom, inequality, and extreme environmental conditions; the new thematic agenda to be provided for the eu must then ensure that internal policies, such as employment, education and health care, are accessible, harmonized and sufficiently flexible to turn the challenges posed by migratory pressures into a resource for the economic and cultural development of our societies. migrants can be a resource, not just a problem, for both host countries and transit and home areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on refugees today: the european union must first of all take responsibility for safely guiding and supporting those who enter the european political and legal area, while respecting human rights and international agreements, and at the same time launch cooperation programmes to reduce the causes of immigration. those fleeing poverty and persecution cannot be considered as mere subjects that will weigh on our economy. there are studies that show that migration also generates new wealth, and new development opportunities. the working age population in the eu will decline by 7.5 million by 2020 and the influx of immigrants into europe, if managed correctly with a comprehensive and long-term vision, can also be seen as an opportunity. member states must facilitate the economic integration of refugees, for example by reducing labour market restrictions and by recognising and enhancing the professional skills of asylum seekers so that they can respond to the needs of our economic system.
in writing. ‒ the report, with precise clarification of the terms of the issue and the problem as it stands today, fully addresses the opportunities and challenges of social inclusion and integration into the labour market of refugees, and ends with the presentation of proposals and recommendations. these include the need, upstream, for a reform of the dublin regulation and for support actions to member states which are more committed to hosting refugees because of their geographical location. the impression of the report is quite commendable, as are the suggestions for action. i certainly voted for it.
in writing. ‒ europe's response to the migration crisis cannot be limited to emergency measures to manage flows, but must address equally important issues such as social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. it is essential to respect the principle of non-discrimination in all aspects of the life of refugees once they have arrived in europe, from education to entry into the labour market. this requires helping refugees learn the language and customs of the host country from the moment they arrive, so that they can express their skills and competences, integrate in a dignified way and contribute to society. and to do that, all the guarantees for the protection of international workers must be applied, preventing all forms of exploitation and undeclared work. the migration issue can no longer be seen as a problem but rather as an opportunity only if the union is able to take the necessary measures to implement an integration project that gives refugees dignity and values their contribution to european society. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that a subject of such complexity deserves further study and a broader discussion between the groups.
in writing. ‒ i think the refugee crisis is one of the most difficult issues the european union is currently facing. i think it is right to commit ourselves to helping those seeking asylum, because once they have fled their country they face many difficulties in a new place with different lifestyles and cultures. however, the european union is facing a serious economic crisis which, in many countries, is translating into high unemployment and poverty. as regards italy, for example, a very large number of young people emigrate each year in search of opportunities which their own country cannot offer them. i am therefore in favour of helping asylum seekers, but this must be done within the framework of a wider economic recovery and in accordance with priorities which must necessarily favour taxpayers over third parties, to whom we must humanely recognize the need to live. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to clarify the issue of social inclusion and the integration of refugees into the labour market, by examining the main elements of the ongoing discussions on this topic. the aim was to propose recommendations and suggestions for achieving maximum social inclusion and integration of refugees. with the amendments we have tabled we have wanted to emphasize certain urgent actions, including the need to establish a common asylum system, the need to have adequate support actions for the member states most involved in primary reception, actions to reach the host countries safely, better management of applications for international protection, a system to act in relation to the different needs, distinguishing between emergency and medium or long-term needs. we also believe that it is essential to use public investment for integration into the european labour market. the report does not contain any major criticisms, and that is why i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis with long-term repercussions on labour markets and civil society in countries of origin as well as in countries of destination, and therefore requires lasting and effective responses to ensure social cohesion and the effective integration of newcomers into our societies. i voted in favour of this resolution because i share the approach proposed not to create special labour markets for refugees but to include them in host societies with effective measures at local level addressing fundamental issues such as: the various forms of discrimination, language barriers, access to housing, education and health care, the right to family reunification. in this respect, in line with the resolution, i consider it unacceptable that there are still substantial differences between member states in the timing and manner of processing applications for international protection; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for refugees. i therefore believe that the starting point for the effective inclusion of refugees in european societies is the implementation by the member states of the country-specific recommendations set out in the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the resolution will facilitate access to the labour market for refugees and restore their human dignity and economic independence. the resolution also promotes social equality and does not target the economically weak but provides for additional social investment and provides for additional financial resources to be allocated directly to local and regional public administrations and voluntary organisations. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the challenges facing the eu today, and in particular the refugee challenge, require a stronger commitment from all member states, while respecting the essential application of the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. the report identifies the challenges and opportunities for the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees, both at community and member state level. the report welcomed some of the proposals put forward by the 5 star movement, including the urgent need to establish a common asylum system and legal pathways of access, a fair allocation and distribution mechanism for migrants, adequate support actions for member states that are more committed to primary reception for geographical reasons, but also the need to adopt additional programmes, funded by the eu, and more public investment to facilitate the integration of european citizens into the labour market in the first place, to also avoid social tensions, especially where the unemployment rate is higher. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the realisation of a concrete process of social inclusion and integration of refugees is a complex and demanding challenge, to be based on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities between member states, as it requires a gradual path that invests interconnected aspects of an economic, social and cultural nature. while recognising the serious crisis in the european economy and the high unemployment rate in some areas, access to the labour market for refugees, through additional resources, which should not be subtracted from programmes and objectives relating to other disadvantaged groups, can reduce the costs of reception and the negative social consequences of dependence on purely welfare measures. it would also help to combat irregular work, to provide training and vocational skills to create the best conditions and opportunities for reintegration once they return to their home countries and to contribute to the economy of the host countries.
in writing. ‒ immigration is a huge and complex phenomenon, capable of changing the face of a society. for better or for worse, that's for us to decide. the 'phenomenon' of immigration has significant economic, social, cultural and public policy implications. i voted against mr benifei's report because i think it does not take into account the fundamental issues for the effective social inclusion and integration of migrants in the labour market, such as the clear distinction between refugees and economic migrants, legal and illegal migration. in addition, the report does not take into account the significant differences between member states in the bureaucratic delays and the way in which applications for international protection are processed, creating a paradox in the access of migrants to the labour market. a more realistic approach is needed, one which is able to deal with the problem in its entirety.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it only helps migrants and does not take account of the 22 million unemployed citizens. once again our citizens are behind.
in writing. ‒ to look at migration not only as a pressing challenge to be tackled but also as an opportunity: this is the challenge posed by the excellent report which mr benifei has carried out with great success and which i have gladly supported. a forward-looking and broad-based approach to migration and the urgent need for the union to reaffirm its identity as a guarantor of human rights and dignity, a europe of solidarity and responsibility, which makes social inclusion its strength by transforming fragility into potential, development and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on the social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market, because introducing this perspective, which has not been given enough importance until now, can be the next step in moving from the emergency of welcoming to the recognition of the dignity they deserve. moreover, turning refugees into taxpayers can reduce the burden on public budgets and promote economic growth. we therefore need social inclusion policies, which recognise the rights of refugees to health care, housing and education, and policies aimed at integrating them into local realities, into labour markets without generating wage dumping. these policies will need to be functional to the management of the broader migration problem, in order to strengthen at the same time the channels of legal and safe migration and respect for fundamental rights. in order to deal effectively, safely and in solidarity with the migration emergency, new funding must be provided to support programmes for the social inclusion and integration of refugees, so as not to create competition between them and other disadvantaged groups in european society, and above all, special labour markets for refugees must not be created through the recognition of the national minimum wage.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, this house is issuing a strong warning to member states to ensure full and rapid integration of refugees into the labour market and social inclusion. to do this, however, national systems must do more to address certain issues, in particular those relating to the fight against all forms of discrimination, the elimination of language barriers and the validation of qualifications. we stress the absolute need to ensure access for all refugees, particularly girls and women, to formal, informal and non-formal education and lifelong learning linked to work experience. we call on the commission to review the reception directive as soon as possible in order to ensure that applicants for international protection have access to the labour market as soon as possible after the submission of their application; we urge the commission to promote upward convergence of social protection standards and the rapid granting of work permits in the member states. the labour market is one and everyone must enjoy equal treatment, including pay; we do not accept the idea of creating special ones for refugees.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on refugees, which aims to explore the issues of social inclusion and integration into the labour market. our group has worked hard to produce a report which can stimulate the debate further and which calls primarily for more action by european leaders. the report stresses the need for this. social inclusion, integration of refugees into the european labour market, equal access to education and training, the labour market combined with social protection instruments and associated rights, and access to european health and housing services, when needed, are all necessary tools to create a state-of-the-art reception system capable of enabling a gradual and homogeneous integration process throughout europe. as has already been shown, successful integration allows states to benefit from it, especially at fiscal and demographic level. our european ambition is to create winning models of multinational integration, and to do this we need to be courageous in our choices. that is why i am voting in favour of this report and calling on the european union to continue along this path.
in writing. ‒ considering that the refugee crisis is the main challenge facing the european union and that the new european agenda on migration is aimed at overcoming the difficulties of managing this emergency, that greater synergy between the various european policies would allow the migration problem to be managed from the causes that drive thousands of people to leave their country to come to europe, that unemployment and the financial crisis that has hit the european union make it even more difficult to integrate and integrate refugees into our society and that a better understanding of the phenomenon can be extremely useful for a more effective management of it, i thought it appropriate to express my support for the proposal of my colleague. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ welcoming refugees arriving in europe is one of the most challenging challenges we face and, if tackled in the right way, can turn into a great opportunity, both for refugees and for european societies. the commission's commitment to a common approach to the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees is certainly positive, but action needs to be taken in a timely manner, with all the necessary resources in place. i support this resolution because it clearly shows the importance and urgency of the issue, provides a thorough analysis of the action taken so far by the european union and the member states, and at the same time presents a detailed picture of the measures to be taken to achieve better social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market. while always ensuring the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities and avoiding further competition between refugees and the most disadvantaged sectors of our societies, in order to prevent the latter from feeling threatened by the (even limited) arrival of refugees, europe must ensure access to education and vocational training, housing, healthcare, the labour market and social protection for refugees, in particular protecting the most vulnerable groups such as women, children (especially when unaccompanied) and disabled people.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for more public resources to be invested in supporting the employment of refugees arriving in europe and invites the european commission to consider introducing a minimum share of 25% of the european social fund (esf) cohesion policy budget in order to ensure that adequate resources are available for the integration of these people into the labour market. the report also stresses that, in order to ensure rapid allocation under the esf, member states should, where necessary, adapt their national rules to ensure that asylum seekers are treated equally to union citizens who have access to the labour market. although this is a non-binding text, the signal from the european parliament is very negative. given the youth unemployment rates in our country, it would be a real paradox to send the message that the eu equates the unemployed young people of europe with refugees. there are priorities and our priority must be to give jobs to young europeans. for all these reasons, i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr benifei concerns the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. as a member of the european parliament and an italian citizen, i have decided to vote against the proposed text. although i am aware of the urgency of regulating and effectively resolving the integration of people who for political reasons find refuge in europe, i look at the current situation in my country with great concern. the rights which the european parliament is asking for today to be extended to refugees are the same rights which italy is unable to guarantee to its own citizens. we are talking about integrating refugees into the labour market, when our country's unemployment rate is among the highest in europe and when our own young people are struggling to enter the world of work to which the eu is proposing to facilitate access for migrants. that is why i have decided to vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in which parliament makes some concrete proposals to facilitate the social inclusion of refugees and asylum seekers, by integrating them into the labour market, learning the local language and culture and guiding them towards an understanding of european values. i believe, in particular, that enabling refugees to work in the host countries, including through the rapid recognition of their professional qualifications, is a fundamental step towards restoring their dignity and adequate social protection, while at the same time contributing to the host country's economy. in this way, the integration process in the host country would be characterised by an active interaction between refugees and local communities and authorities in which all parties have equal rights and duties. the resolution, however, takes account of the differences between the member states, and in particular those with extremely high rates of youth and long-term unemployment: in such cases, new financial resources are needed to ensure assistance to refugees and asylum seekers while maintaining funding already provided for programmes to support other disadvantaged categories of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the report's main objective of integrating refugees into our societies and the labour market, which i believe is important in turning the current migration crisis into an opportunity. the integration of refugees into the labour market restores dignity to people, makes them independent and active members of our societies and enables them to contribute to the public budgets of the host country. in addition, as the report states, inclusion policies should also include language learning and pay particular attention to local unemployment rates, especially of the most vulnerable groups such as young people, the long-term unemployed and the disabled. both the european union and the member states need to provide more direct financial support to local authorities, civil society organisations and voluntary associations which are at the forefront of reception and integration policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on refugees: social inclusion and integration into the labour market. the report proposes to rapidly integrate refugees into society and the labour market through various actions and adequate funding. the most significant actions are more effective integration policies, faster decisions on the admissibility of asylum applications and a european response to issues relating to access to education, healthcare and the labour market. the report also proposes to increase public spending and, in particular, the financial resources devoted to eu cohesion policies. i am firmly convinced that these actions are necessary to resolve the refugee crisis as quickly as possible and to ensure their rapid integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the reception of refugees cannot be left to chance, but requires a policy based on the twin of rights and duties and effective intercultural and social policies aimed at fostering dialogue and integration between immigrants and the host community. we have duties linked to the values of our civilization and international law. the demographic trend in europe is also clear: the eu's working age population will decline by 7.5 million by 2020, and so it is very important to have a coordinated immigration policy that sees immigrants as a huge asset to be valued.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have our eyes on you. public opinion is watching our moves with attention and, unfortunately, with growing scepticism. the european union is first and foremost a trade union, but that does not mean that rights are not always at the centre of everything. it is now clear to all citizens, businesses and governments what the extent of the union's influence is on matters of foreign trade, international relations, regulation within and beyond the community's borders. i am convinced that the union's trade policy must be an instrument for promoting the rights, in particular those of workers, women and children, who very often in countries of south east asia, for example, where manufacturing has moved the bulk of its activities, are experiencing conditions of terrible exploitation. corporate responsibility, particularly of multinationals, is the key to the success of the trade for all strategy. the csr tool is an effective tool to inform consumers and to encourage businesses and governments to take greater account of the social and environmental implications of their actions.
in writing. ‒ trade policies and market liberalisation have a significant impact on respect for human rights and on social and environmental sustainability. at present, there is no single, harmonised regulatory framework binding european companies to the implementation and development of such issues. trade policy, on the other hand, should be concerned with the protection of workers, respect for gender equality and environmental issues, without prejudicing growth factors. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report, confident that trade strategies can become a tool for promoting democratic values at international level.
in writing. ‒ the european union has for decades been committed to promoting a mutual reinforcement of trade and human rights, focusing on a range of measures that do not exclude the incentives that the business community itself can offer in the field of promoting democracy, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility. the forenza report, which i supported with my vote, provides a comprehensive analysis of the eu's commitments to negotiate and implement new measures to develop global responsibility, promote social justice, environmental sustainability and respect for human rights. the text pays particular attention to trade policy, which is considered to be one of the main elements to promote the energy transition by promoting the emergence and development of renewable energies and the creation of environmentally friendly goods and technologies. a central element of the proposal is support for provisions setting human rights conditionalities. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is consistent with the wto rules.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote is one-sided, unbalanced and not acceptable. i believe that in order to tackle issues such as the whole range of social and environmental standards, human rights and the responsibility of companies in international trade today, we must start from a clear criticism of the existing model, which is creating inequalities and which, in the face of a process of relocation that creates enormous social damage in the west in a crisis of values and work, does not even contribute to real development in the poorest countries that provide labour to be exploited and an environment towards which no rules of respect and protection are implemented. i did not see that in this text, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as the european union is about to conclude ambitious trade agreements with a view to a global strengthening of the trading system on common and shared rules, it is desirable that non-monetisable components such as respect for human rights and environmental impact be taken into account in such agreements. the european union is the world leader in the fight against climate change and in the promotion of human rights: the commission cannot abdicate this role in the negotiations. trade policy must be conducted in a sound and transparent manner, in accordance with the positions which we europeans have publicly adopted in this house and in accordance with the guiding principles of the un on business and human rights. the european union must use its trade policy agenda alongside all other relevant instruments, including the promotion of corporate social responsibility, which aim to promote human rights provisions in line with our core values and in relation to our trade policy: our action to shape a freer and more just world also passes through here.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility because policies that reconcile economic, social and environmental objectives with a view to future sustainability are needed now more than ever. a company is socially responsible whenever it has the approaches and tools to integrate environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer rights aspects into its management, with the dual aim of maximising the creation of shared value with the operators concerned and of preventing or mitigating the negative impacts of its activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report calling on the commission and the council to give greater consideration to objectives such as the protection of human rights, the promotion of high environmental standards and sustainable development in the context of the union's trade policy. with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, all the objectives of the union's external policies are brought together in article 21 teu, which imposes an obligation of coherence and synergy in the implementation of the different policies. therefore, other objectives such as those mentioned above cannot be disregarded in the implementation of the union's trade policy and the commission and the council should act in accordance with the provisions of the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on 'social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility' because i believe that the european union's trade policy can boost social progress, quality of life and can contribute to improving human rights protection. i also believe that trade agreements have a strong impact on the protection of human rights and sustainable development and therefore recognize the need to ensure that these rules are respected by making them an integral part of the union's trade and economic relations.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal, which is simply an assessment of the progress made by the european union in recent years. in this period, good progress has been made in sustainable development and environmental protection, but much work remains to be done. in my view, the european union should play a major role in achieving the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. i also believe that the commission's decision to carry out both pre- and post-trade impact assessments on sustainability and human rights should be made binding so that the union can have constant up-to-date data on the development of these two factors. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ trade plays an important role in promoting trade opportunities, creating prosperity, increasing employment and boosting economic and social development. the eu has always been committed to sustainable development through its trade policy, as reaffirmed in the commission's 'trade for all' strategy. i support this resolution because it underlines two important factors. the first, on strengthening compliance with social and environmental issues within the european market, reiterates the need for member states to promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes at the place where they carry out economic activities and to promote good governance in the tax field and effective tax collection. indeed, a company's tax policy is an integral part of corporate social responsibility and tax avoidance or tax haven strategies are incompatible with socially responsible behaviour and the sustainable development of the european market. the second factor concerns the role of the eu in trade relations with third countries. european trade policy in third countries and multilateral cooperation must take account of respect for human rights, the environment and democratic principles as key elements of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the 2010 recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, thus taking a clear position on highly relevant aspects of the european union's trade policy. the resolution urges the commission to step up its efforts to ensure that all trade agreements being negotiated or renewed between the eu and third countries give priority to sustainable development and the safeguarding of high environmental and social standards. this means that when drawing up trade agreements with countries outside the union, the commission cannot ignore the inclusion of clauses on corporate social responsibility and provisions which promote gender equality and also make it possible to respect international environmental commitments. i firmly believe that a fair and just system of international trade must be based on respect for the fundamental rights recognised by the international community. for these reasons i strongly supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations to promote social policies, human rights and respect for the environment by businesses. this includes support for equal opportunities, social inclusion and a sustainable economy. recommendations promote transparency and reliable accountability mechanisms and play an important role in preventing corruption within the eu. they also provide for coordination with other international organisations such as the oecd, the ilo and the wto.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade policies should aim to achieve greater prosperity, equality and social progress for all, and this excellent report from the five star movement is a step in the right direction. the report stresses the need for a more transparent, accountable and effective trade policy, which protects small and mediumsized enterprises and farmers in the first place, with agreements that bring tangible benefits to citizens and are in line with the sustainable development objectives that this planet needs. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the spirit of this report, which aims to empower the council and the commission in the field of trade policy, is fully shared, with a view to greater attention to sensitive issues such as human rights, sustainable development, access to the commons and corporate social responsibility. in this context, the call for both the eu institutions and the member states to promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay tax where economic activities take place and value is created, and consequently to promote mandatory country-by-country reporting, is of particular importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that eu human rights policy must continue to be integrated into other eu policies with an external dimension, including trade policy. the eu should therefore use trade policy to promote the objective of setting high global standards on human and social rights, consumer protection and environmental issues.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it does not criticise the current economic model which is creating inequalities and does not create development in the poorest countries.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, parliament recognises that the link between trade and human rights, on the one hand, and social and environmental standards, on the other, has become an integral part of the european union's economic and trade relations. we therefore call on the commission to ensure greater coherence with development, to ensure effective policy evaluation and effective coordination between development aid policy and trade policy. it is also essential for us that the commission should work to ensure that all the parties concerned respect international standards on human rights, gender equality, labour law and respect for the environment. we also want to call on the eu and the member states to take binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where economic activities take place and value is created. we also call for mandatory country-by-country reporting by the private sector and for good governance, particularly in the area of taxation, and effective tax collection.
in writing. i vote in favour of the initiative proposal to analyse the implementation of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in the field of trade and politics. the report builds on an earlier report adopted by parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights in international trade and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements. although there is still much to be done, the report acknowledges the commission's efforts to encourage trade partners to introduce the above references in trade treaties. it also makes a number of recommendations and proposals aimed at implementing the rules established for an overall improvement of the system, to preserve the environment and protect human rights.
in writing. – regarding the report on implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, i voted in favour, as the implementation of the recommendations will stimulate economic growth, enhance living quality, and improve the human rights standards in a long-term perspective. the promotion of further reforms of the wto will sustain the management of global supply chains at the same time. the implementation of the recommendations will be beneficial to the european union certainly.
in writing. ‒ considering the great potential of trade policies and agreements as a tool for sustainable economic development, with particular reference to environmental protection, human rights and corporate social responsibility; assessed the risks of a globalisation that is poorly regulated and characterised by increasingly interconnected and opaque value chains; we shall vote in favour of the forenza report. as recognised by the 'trade for all' strategy proposed by the european commission to launch a new trade policy, we believe in the deep link between international trade and respect for social and environmental standards. we also note that only some of the recommendations made by the european parliament in 2010 have been implemented, and we call on the european commission to act on the requests made by this house with the utmost urgency and encourage member states to legislate in a way that is as consistent as possible with the overall development objectives. we also support this report because, thanks to the work of the socialists and democrats, it focuses attention on the gender issue, making it one of the priorities for the development of the trade strategy and making it an essential theme for trade agreements. we also share the hope that the governance of the world trade organisation will be reformed in a way that will strengthen the multilateral system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights. the european union is committed to promoting and consistently respecting human rights and democracy in its relations with third countries in all its policies, including trade, through agreements that have a strong impact on both the protection of human rights and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i thought it my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. the european parliament, as a co-legislator, has a central role in the definition of european rules. therefore, its recommendations on human rights, corporate responsibility and social and environmental standards require implementation by the commission. moreover, since development, trade and the promotion of human rights are of fundamental importance in all the union's policies, i believe that greater cooperation at multilateral level in the areas of greatest interest and in the forms indicated in mrs forenza's proposal is both appropriate and necessary. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ international trade can play an important role in promoting economic development, employment, social progress and quality of life, as well as improving human rights standards. the european union, as reaffirmed in the 'trade for all' strategy, is committed to promoting sustainable development, human rights and good governance. the need for trade agreements that protect human, social and environmental rights is also increasingly felt by citizens. this report therefore calls for a more determined and ambitious commitment by the commission, negotiating trade agreements which provide for the responsibility of multinational companies and governments in this area and control mechanisms to ensure the application of social and environmental clauses. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to integrate the gender perspective into all their policies, including trade policy, and to ensure effective compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) by conducting periodic assessments of the agreements in force. economic recovery and growth in europe and globally are compatible, indeed synergistic, with the principles of social justice, environmental sustainability and respect for human rights. i therefore support the report and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social, environmental, human rights and corporate responsibility standards today, which calls for the eu to commit to developing its trade policies in a way that is consistent with other european policies on social protection, sustainable development and fundamental rights. i therefore believe it is important, as proposed in the report adopted today, to ensure greater coordination between development aid and trade policy, and to make the impact assessments of eu trade policy on human rights and sustainability binding in trade agreements, as key elements for promoting good governance and democratic principles also in third country partners.
in writing. ‒ corporate social responsibility is becoming an increasingly important issue. this is a subject which cannot, however, be left to the experts. only participation and knowledge can bring about real change. compliance with the legislation in force and with collective agreements between the social partners is a necessary condition for the realisation of this responsibility. to fully meet their responsibilities, companies should have a process for integrating social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and corporate strategies, in close cooperation with stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the most prosperous economy in the world today, although its economic importance is set to decline as wealth moves to the asian region. the commission has also provided a number of examples of the use of the 'european union's external borders' to support the implementation of the 'european union's external borders' and to support the 'european union's external borders' in the context of the 'european union's external borders'. on the contrary, the report presented aims to ensure consistency between trade objectives and european policies, such as sustainable development, environmental protection, respect for human rights and social standards. for these reasons, i voted in favour, believing that the new trade strategy cannot ignore such issues.
in writing. ‒ the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has brought about profound changes in the common commercial policy, changes which have taken place in a period characterised by the severe international economic crisis and increased public attention to trade negotiations. the beghin report, which i supported with my vote, focuses on the importance for the european union of developing an innovative and forward-looking strategy on trade and investment. the text stresses the importance of transparency in the negotiations and calls in particular on the council to make all negotiating mandates public. strengthening parliamentary scrutiny is a key element in ensuring an adequate response to citizens' fears and concerns about possible deregulation risks generated by trade agreements. the development of an effective and far-sighted trade and investment strategy requires strengthening and updating the union's trade defence system, which is now threatened by china's demand for market economy status. in the new world scenario, the eu must commit to regularly updating its trade strategy by submitting annual reports that allow european citizens to verify the commitments made by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote is clearly in favour of the union's trade policies. there is no mention at all of the need to involve the national institutions of the member states in the process of trade negotiations with third countries, on which entire sectors of the production of made in italy and europe, such as ttip, depend. moreover, the text makes no mention of the trade war with russia caused by the wrong eu policies that have brought thousands of our companies to their knees. for these reasons i did not want to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ a forward-looking trade strategy that is sustainable in the long term is of great importance to the european union. it is a fact that the eu's trade weight is decreasing: the 23.7% of global trade volume represented by europe today will fall to 15% in 2050. the eu needs to become more integrated into the commercial value chains of goods and services produced or managed, focusing on innovation and sustainability to counter the trend of wealth and the centre of global trade shifting to the asia-pacific region. the increased public attention to the issue, together with the approaching new trade negotiations by the eu and the still unresolved context of the economic crisis, should prompt us to call for greater transparency in negotiations and decision-making procedures together with the full involvement of local, national and european stakeholders, bearing in mind the positive contribution to internal cohesion and the enhancement of the quality of negotiations that comes from everyone acting in a cohesive and harmonious way towards the common effort.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy on trade and investment because corporate social responsibility is a strategic tool for achieving a more competitive, socially cohesive society capable of modernising and strengthening the european social model. the european union must work to ensure that trade and human rights can be mutually reinforcing. the business community, which is also required to respect human rights, can also play an important role by providing incentives to promote human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate social responsibility. the union will have succeeded in its ambitious objective if it is able to establish a trade and investment policy based on values and not just on the market.
in writing. ‒ the phenomenon of globalisation is increasingly perceived as a potential cause of job losses and lower levels of social protection. to avoid such negative consequences, it is therefore important that the union identifies a clear trade and investment strategy. the commission has also taken the view that the union's trade policy should be based on the principles of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). trade agreements must also become effective instruments for promoting sustainable development, human rights, social, labour and environmental standards. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ increasing globalisation has shifted production and growth to third countries, particularly those in asia and the pacific. while international trade is an opportunity for all, the possibility of the european union concluding trade agreements with international partners raises concerns for businesses and citizens who fear the loss of jobs and market shares. the ttip is an example of this, and many fear that it could weaken european standards in social, health or environmental policy. given the impact that such negotiations may have on the economy, it is important that they are conducted in a transparent manner by publishing the content and updates. but above all, the european commission, as negotiator, must develop models of trade and investment agreements where environmental sustainability and respect for human rights are essential conditions for the opening and closing of negotiations. parliament wanted to emphasise and insist on respect for workers' rights and a ban on imports into the eu of goods produced through forced labour or without respect for environmental standards in the supply chain. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on 'a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy on trade and investment' because i believe that it is of the utmost importance to implement an effective, comprehensive and forward-looking trade and investment strategy that can respond to the eu's new challenges. i believe that the new trade policy must be one which is increasingly responsive to the concerns of the citizens, and which is able to guarantee greater transparency, commitment and accountability. a new trade and investment strategy can also help to strengthen sustainable development, human rights, social labour standards and global sustainability at the global level.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the strategy presented by the commission on guidelines in international trade has great potential. the proposal highlights important phenomena, including the increasing use of the digital economy. in this respect, the rapporteur is right to stress that it is essential that the european union's trade policy should keep pace with digital and technological trends, because, in my view, to fall behind would mean losing a part of the market that would end up in non-european countries. a second point which is very close to my heart is the inclusion of a chapter calling for greater attention to be paid to the specific needs of small and mediumsized enterprises so that they can take full advantage of trade and investment agreements and thus carry out international activities, including outside the european union. i am therefore convinced that this is a good proposal and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade policy is extremely important geopolitically and economically in order to strengthen international standards and increase access to foreign markets. the commission's new strategy is shaped as a more responsible trade and investment policy with a new focus on supply chain management and the global digital market. i voted in favour of the new strategy because it aims to combat protectionism in trade policy, including by reducing unnecessary non-tariff barriers, and to ensure new market access opportunities, particularly for smes. i believe that open, responsible and free world trade, based on effective, transparent and robust global rules, is key to realising the full potential of the single market, making it work and grow and benefiting citizens, consumers and businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. the opening up of trade leads to higher productivity, contributes to increased external competitiveness, employment and brings considerable benefits to consumers.
in writing. ‒ in a period of low economic growth, the contribution of foreign trade is crucial both in terms of employment and in bringing benefits to consumers, in particular through increased competition, lower prices, increased choice and the promotion of innovation. parliament's resolution welcomes the european strategy on trade policy presented by the commission. in voting for the resolution, i intend to support this new european approach to trade policy, which emphasises elements such as responsible management of supply chains, the global digital market, trade in digital goods and services, fair and ethical trade and the social costs of trade liberalisation, which reduces unnecessary non-tariff barriers, which ensures strong participation of society and at the same time protects citizens. a new and strategic european trade policy must ensure new market access opportunities for micro and small enterprises. to this end, greater attention should be paid to their specific needs and to ensure that they can take full advantage of trade and investment agreements, reduce trade costs through the simplification of customs procedures, the reduction of non-tariff barriers and the simplification of rules.
in writing. ‒ the 'trade for all' strategy, published last october by the european commission, finally puts the spotlight on transparency, sustainable development, the fight against poverty and corruption, demonstrating a new approach to trade, based on the promotion of common values and respect for human rights. at the same time, however, the strategy does not give adequate value to some of the issues which i consider to be strategic: i am referring, for example, to the issue of protecting and revitalising the european manufacturing industry, which is just as important as the more frequently mentioned service sector. i am also referring to the issue of modernising trade defence instruments and the need to restore conditions of equal competitiveness with our major partners. in this context, i would like to remind you that the strategy makes no mention of the question of market economy status, which beijing would like to see recognized in a few months' time and which would have very strong negative repercussions on the european productive fabric itself. with this report, parliament is giving the european commission its guidelines, which will have to demonstrate in practice a real change of pace in the advancement of the european trade agenda by putting people, citizens, workers and businesses back at the centre. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this strategy promotes a more prosperous future for the european economy. in fact, today the european market is the largest in the world but due to emerging markets in asia, such as china and india, it is expected that the european economy will shrink. in addition, the strategy supports trade and investment agreements to strengthen sustainable development, promote human rights, social and labour standards. for these reasons i thought it important to vote in favour of this strategy.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade policies should aim to achieve greater prosperity, equality and social progress for all, and this excellent report from the five star movement is a step in the right direction. the report stresses the need for a more transparent, accountable and effective trade policy, which protects small and mediumsized enterprises and farmers in the first place, with agreements that bring tangible benefits to citizens and are in line with the sustainable development objectives that this planet needs. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the union should develop a trade and investment strategy that is appropriate for the times ahead. we know that the economic importance of the european continent is threatened by the advance of the asian giants, mainly for demographic reasons. this strategy will of course have to take account of the specificities of our economic systems, but also of the need to update the union's trade defence system. the proposal to shape trade and investment agreements in such a way that they become effective instruments for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability at the global level is fully acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the eu can now be considered the most prosperous economy in the world. however, the eu's economic relevance is set to decline. indeed, the centre of wealth generation is shifting eastwards, more specifically towards the asia-pacific region, and demographic developments will also have a negative impact on the eu's position in world trade. it is therefore of the utmost importance for the european union to define an effective, comprehensive and far-sighted trade and investment strategy. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report because it stresses that policy must provide immediate answers to the concerns of the public in the field of commercial strategy. in particular, the european institutions must ensure greater transparency, commitment and accountability towards all stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which fully supports the commission's trade policies, including the ttip, ceta and tissa agreements, which i have always opposed and been sceptical of.
in writing. ‒ this report presents and achieves several important conclusions and outlines important policy lines that we should consider moving forward. the convergence of the external actions and policies of the eu and the union’s trade policies and objectives is one of these important guidelines. it will give our external action much stronger backing while providing our external trade relations with diplomatic backing. i am also happy that the report calls for the commission to address the needs of smes horizontally in all chapters of our trade agreements: this is very important as smes are the economic backbone of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ investment and growth are essential to boosting europe's role in the world and to better safeguard employment and the social model, so the message we sent as parliament in response to the new trade strategy launched by the commission is important. europe must continue to protect trade openness, but guarantees of respect for international rules and protection for our consumers and for european competitiveness are needed. i therefore supported the report just voted on because it sets out a clear perspective of sustainability and progress, in particular by introducing for the first time the call for trade policies to be used effectively and intelligently to fight illegal practices such as corruption and tax evasion at international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy on trade and investment because i believe that in the future the common commercial policy (cpc) must be able to adapt to rapidly changing global trade trends, to establish more responsible management of supply chains, the global digital market, fair and ethical trade and to consider the social costs of trade liberalisation. the eu's new trade policy towards the rest of the world must combat protectionism, including by reducing unnecessary non-tariff barriers, and ensure new market access opportunities, in particular for smes. the commission must ensure a strong and balanced involvement of civil society and social partners in order to improve the content of eu trade policy and to orient it towards defending citizens' rights, thereby enhancing its legitimacy. the eu's trade objectives need to be more coherent with industrial policy, and the cpc's external action needs to be more coherent with development policy. finally, i strongly shared the opposition to the granting of market economy status to china and the need for effective trade defence instruments.
in writing. although eu trade is now at the centre of the global market, its economic importance is expected to decline in the coming years. it is therefore essential to implement a comprehensive and lasting trade and investment plan. the proposal is in fact an assessment of the new strategy presented by the commission in 2015. the report is positive about the commission's efforts, which have taken account of the new trade challenges facing the union, and reiterates the complementarity between multilateral trade and plurilateral or bilateral negotiations. it also draws attention to citizens' concerns about the relationship between globalisation and unemployment and calls on the commission to be more transparent, committed and accountable. it also called for the trade strategies and instruments to be updated on a regular basis so as to make an effective contribution to the promotion of sustainable development, human rights and the implementation of social and labour standards. i therefore welcome the adoption of a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy on trade and investment.
in writing. – regarding the report on a new forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment, i voted in favour, as innovative future strategies for trade and investment will tremendously boost economic development, and promote more business opportunities and cooperation. the successful implementation of the report will also prevent the further doubts from eu citizens and smes toward large industries’ associations, and the transparency of the trade will benefit all investors and ensure the fairness of the trade and investment.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which sets out strategies to keep the eu at the forefront of the global economy. we need more transparency to respond proactively to the economic challenges of our time. promoting employment and international trade without relocating jobs outside europe. a responsible trade policy will ensure high standards of consumer and environmental protection and enable citizens to adapt to a constantly changing market.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to implement an effective, comprehensive and far-sighted trade and investment strategy that can respond to the eu's new challenges. greater transparency, commitment and accountability towards all stakeholders are needed to reassure citizens who today often identify the phenomenon of globalisation with the loss of jobs. trade and investment agreements must be shaped in such a way that they become effective tools for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability at the global level. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ considering that the european commission proposed a new trade and investment strategy for the european union last october in order to enable the union to adapt its trade policy to future challenges, that the european parliament had already expressed the need for far-sighted interventions in this regard in 2011, and that the commission's proposal appears to be in line with what is desired, that the proposal of ms beghin sees the manufacturing sector and the trade challenges linked to migratory flows as two elements not adequately considered in the commission's proposal, and also that greater transparency in trade policy is indispensable, especially because an updated and functioning trade defence system allows it, i feel i must express myself positively. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu's trade policy strategy, contained in the commission's 'trade for all' communication, represents an important step towards trade based on values and respect for human, social and environmental rights. i therefore share the report's call for good intentions to be translated into action. citizens are increasingly interested and attentive to new trade agreements, mainly because they are concerned about the possible consequences these might have on employment levels and their lives. it is therefore necessary to ensure transparency in all ongoing and future negotiations, including through greater parliamentary scrutiny, and to ensure that trade policy creates benefits for all. the report emphasises the importance of considering the needs of smes and the manufacturing sector in the context of the european reindustrialisation strategy. the council regretted the council's failure to act on the reform of trade defence instruments, which was essential in view of china's request for recognition of market economy status. it called for trade policy to promote cooperation in the fight against corruption, fraud and tax evasion. international trade with fair rules and guarantees for european industries and workers can generate jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to assess the new strategy presented by the commission on guidelines in international trade. the overall assessment is quite positive and acknowledges the commission's efforts and intentions to have included important elements reflecting the new challenges in international trade, such as the digital economy and the responsible management of so-called 'global value chains'. the traditional relationship of complementarity between multilateral trade - which remains the first choice - and plurilateral or bilateral negotiations, which are dictated by much more pragmatic needs, is reiterated. the common commercial policy is one of the most important competences that the member states have entrusted to the european union. i believe that when the eu has to negotiate new trade agreements, priority should be given to safeguarding european specificities and quality standards. europe must use all its commercial clout to play a leading role on the global stage. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr beghin aims to assess the european commission's new strategy on guidelines in international trade. i could only vote in favour of the text which welcomes the commission's proposals on international trade. the new strategy takes into account current challenges, such as the digital economy and the responsible management of global value chains. the eu also reiterates its support for the multilateral approach to international trade, without, however, renouncing the use of bilateral or plurilateral agreements where they prove more effective. however, what puzzles me about the strategy adopted by the commission is the absence of a clear list of priorities which could guide the action of this institution in the field of international trade. i would like to remind you that this is a matter for the eu alone. trade policy is one of the pillars of the eu, which is the world's largest exporter of manufactured goods and services and the main import market for more than 100 countries.
in writing. ‒ the eu is now the most prosperous economy in the world. however, its economic importance is likely to decline: in 2050, the eu-28 will account for only 15% of world gdp, compared to 23.7% in 2013. moreover, the centre of wealth production is slowly shifting to the far eastern regions. it is therefore very important for the european union to develop an effective, comprehensive and far-sighted trade and investment strategy to cope with future socioeconomic changes. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to keep the european trade strategy up to date and to present a detailed report on its implementation every year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by which parliament responds to the trade for all commission communication on international trade, stressing the need for this policy to be carried out with responsibility and care for the citizens of europe and the partner countries. the commission's strategy contains positive proposals for more responsible trade and for the promotion of european values. it is essential to meet the needs of smes and the manufacturing sector, creating new opportunities for economic operators, as part of a trade policy that can bring about tangible improvements in the living conditions of our citizens. if trade agreements are to be effective tools for promoting the union's values, binding requirements on sustainable development, human rights, fair trade and the fight against corruption must be laid down and implemented, with mechanisms for sanctions against those who do not respect their commitments in relation to social and environmental rights. parliament will therefore make the fullest use of its prerogatives with regard to the commission's implementation of these guidelines in its commercial initiatives.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday we voted in favour of the report by our 5-star colleague tiziana beghin which sets out a new trade and investment strategy for the european union. as a result of the negotiation of increasingly impactful free trade agreements such as ttip and ceta, citizens have become increasingly concerned about the phenomenon of globalisation and the loss of jobs. on the other hand, the contribution of foreign trade to european economic development is not to be underestimated. so the position we have tried to take and defend has been to have a trade strategy that is not a useful tool for the multinationals to get rich off the backs of workers, but a means to achieve prosperity, equality and social progress. thanks to the good work of tiziana beghin, m5s has managed to achieve many good results such as respect for smes and farmers and the exclusion of the chinese esm from the strategy. whenever an agreement is to be concluded, careful impact studies will have to be drawn up to assess whether or not it is cost effective and for whom. we in the five star group have also succeeded in including in the strategy the defence of geographical indications, the fight against counterfeiting and thus the protection of european excellence.
in writing. ‒ the global trade landscape is changing rapidly and citizens identify globalisation with job losses and are concerned that european regulations and regulations could be undermined by the union's trade and investment policies. as set out in the report, trade and investment agreements need to be shaped in such a way that they are effective tools for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability at the global level.
in writing. ‒i voted in favour of the report on a new, innovative and forward-looking strategy on trade and investment. in particular, the report emphasises the importance of taking the needs of smes and the manufacturing sector into account in the negotiations. in addition, trade agreements must be subject to ex ante and ex post evaluations to ensure that the objective is to improve the labour market and stimulate economic growth. europe must be open to free trade insofar as it creates jobs and stimulates growth while respecting consumer protection. i am firmly convinced that this report lays the foundations for more transparent trade negotiations in the interests of consumers.
in writing. ‒ trade negotiations such as acta, ttip, ceta and tisa have brought european trade policy into the public eye. many citizens identify globalisation with job losses and are concerned that european regulations and standards may be undermined by the union's trade and investment policies. at the same time, the contribution of external trade to the development of the european economy and an effective, comprehensive and far-sighted trade and investment strategy are of fundamental importance. the report welcomes the commission's adoption of a new trade and investment strategy, but points out that it does not give specific attention to manufacturing and trade to meet the challenges of migration. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing rules to include the possibility of a review of the existing rules. we must now shape trade and investment agreements so that they become effective tools for strengthening sustainable development, promoting human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. the vast majority of the products we use every day, from cars to cell phones, are the result of a production chain that spans the globe. with this report, which i voted for, we in the five star movement have been calling loudly for these global supply chains to be clean, sustainable and respectful of workers' rights. we want to know whether the goods you buy are the result of exploited, underage labor or worse than a violation of human rights. but we did not stop there and we pushed for the sustainability of trade to take into account the respect for the environment and animals, demanding greater control over compliance with the rules for the trade in protected species and farm animals. to ensure that these commitments are maintained, we have included in the report that the new free trade agreements contain binding chapters on sustainable development and clear sanction mechanisms for those who do not respect their commitments. we wanted to make it possible for investigations to be initiated by the european parliament itself. we at m5s have been working for new legislation that makes trade an instrument of prosperity, equality and social progress for all.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings can be defined as the illicit recruitment and transfer of one or more persons from one territory to another for profit. the report adopted a very broad definition of this crime, allowing it to be applied to various forms of prostitution, child labour and organ trafficking. it is a structural phenomenon, unfortunately, and not a transitory one, created and fuelled by wars, corruption, poverty and the dysfunction of the migration system. i voted in favour of the request for legal immigration channels, the recognition of specific rights for victims and, finally, a system to combat corruption.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the lochbihler report on combating trafficking in human beings in the union's external relations. this is an important issue which shows how the eu's international commitment must go hand in hand with the fight against crimes which constitute serious human rights violations. the text, based on a careful analysis of world trends, stresses the existence of a strong economic dimension to the phenomenon and defines some possible lines of intervention. firstly, the commission and the member states must strengthen legal measures against trafficking in human beings by broadening their definition and providing for their inclusion in the competences of the future european public prosecutor's office. the union's efforts must take into account the strong gender dimension of the phenomenon, which takes the form of child marriages, sexual exploitation of women and girls and sex tourism, particularly in some countries with which the eu has relations. it is up to europe to put particular emphasis on the fight against trafficking in human beings, calling in particular on third countries to prosecute more the perpetrators and to increase the mechanisms for the protection of victims.
in writing. ‒ while i share the objectives which the text initially set itself, namely the fight against trafficking in human beings, i believe that some of the proposals put forward in this report are not acceptable and could open up future challenges for our socioeconomic fabric; i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious violations of fundamental rights and is usually linked to other types of crime and forms of exploitation, such as sexual exploitation, organ trafficking, forced labour and slavery. unfortunately, we are faced with a phenomenon which is becoming more and more widespread and which cannot leave us indifferent. with the resolution we have adopted today, which i supported, parliament has in fact sought to denounce all forms of crime connected with trafficking, and to highlight the need for the union to take a coherent and decisive stand against a phenomenon which is now more than ever transnational. a shared approach at european level, ensuring coherence between the internal and external dimensions of the union's policies, is therefore essential. it is also appropriate to invest in sufficient and appropriate resources to combat this crime, developing the technologies and skills necessary for its prevention, to trace and prosecute criminal networks, but also to provide adequate assistance and full access to justice for victims of this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the eu and its member states cannot accept human trafficking or exploitation of persons in any form whatsoever. according to the international labour organisation, some 21 million people worldwide are victims of the most widespread forms of modern slavery, including forced labour, which generates profits of over eur 30 billion per year, organ trafficking and forced sexual exploitation, which affects 80% of all victims of human trafficking; the report notes that men are no exception, but the most vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, women, the sick, disabled people and children, are most widely affected, with an estimated 5.5 million children being trafficked. conservative estimates by the international organization for migration put the profits from trafficking in children at about €7.6 billion a year. interpol data also show that more than ten thousand children have disappeared after arriving in europe, becoming victims of trafficking for the purpose of solicitation, sexual exploitation or sale for illegal adoption. we must act to stop these unworthy events.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the union's external relations because i believe that human trafficking, which is the slavery of our time, must be combated in every way. this is a huge violation of human rights and a complex transnational phenomenon that is also rooted in gender inequality. every effort must be made, now more than ever, to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings, to protect victims and to establish common rules to be applied in all member states. our objective, the objective of the european union, must be to identify and better understand the links between organised crime and the exploitation of human beings, because in order to combat a criminal phenomenon, we must first of all clearly define its characteristics. member countries must make every effort to combat this abhorrent practice, including with the help and support of civil society.
in writing. ‒ the report defines the crime of trafficking in human beings very broadly, covering all related forms, such as exploitation of prostitution, organ trafficking and labour exploitation. it also pays due attention to the root causes of the phenomenon and also highlights the economic aspects of trafficking in human beings. the fight against this phenomenon is expected to take place on several fronts, namely by combating corruption and confiscating the resources and proceeds related to the phenomenon. in view of all these aspects, i voted with great conviction in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is a huge source of profit for organised crime, effectively reducing people to commodities. the most vulnerable are affected by this crime, as shown by un estimates, with women accounting for 70% of the victims. the union must make the necessary efforts at international level to prevent and suppress the slave trade, to achieve the complete abolition of slavery in all its forms as soon as possible, by ratifying all relevant international instruments and by creating legal access routes to europe to avoid any possible exploitation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the resolution identifies the necessary actions to be taken at international level, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'the fight against trafficking in human beings in external relations with the union' because i believe that trafficking in human beings can be considered a new form of slavery, a serious crime which is on the increase. i also believe that the common response to this struggle must be regional and interregional cooperation and that it is essential to promote coordination and exchange of information between the member states, also increasing their financial and technical support in response to the problem, together with a strengthening at the legislative level.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the strategy presented by the commission on guidelines in international trade has great potential. the proposal highlights important phenomena, including the increasing use of the digital economy. in this respect, the rapporteur is right to stress that it is essential that the european union's trade policy should keep pace with digital and technological trends, because, in my view, to fall behind would mean losing a part of the market that would end up in non-european countries. a second point which is very close to my heart is the inclusion of a chapter which calls for greater attention to be paid to the specific needs of small and mediumsized enterprises so that they can take full advantage of trade and investment agreements and thus carry out international activities, including outside the european union. i am therefore convinced that this is a good proposal and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a phenomenon requiring specific measures and it is essential to distinguish between the concept of trafficking in human beings and that of trafficking in migrants. targeted awareness-raising programmes should be developed to distinguish trafficking in migrants from trafficking in human beings, in particular as regards the identification and protection of child victims of trafficking and unaccompanied children at risk of trafficking. trafficking in human beings, as an organised crime, occurs both at cross-border and national levels, and requires strong domestic laws against trafficking as well as cooperation between countries. the eu and its member states must adopt a human rights-based approach focused on crime prevention and the protection of victims. i voted in favour of the report because it aims to strengthen coordination, cooperation and the systematic exchange of information for the purpose of investigating and combating trafficking in human beings, by strengthening financial and technical assistance and by strengthening communication, cooperation and the establishment of crossborder capacity at the level of governments and law enforcement authorities.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the worst forms of human rights violations. women and children are the main victims of traditional forms of trafficking - sexual exploitation, forced labour, child slavery, organ harvesting - and of new forms such as forced labour in sectors such as domestic work, manufacturing and cleaning services. this resolution brings global attention to a crossborder issue, which tends to increase and feed on migratory flows, international conflicts, and repressed socioeconomic situations that act as incubators. it is important to stress that demand for sexual services in developed countries and forced labour in european companies to the detriment of third country nationals fuel human trafficking by developing countries, and that the use of the internet can facilitate trafficking. i hope that the resolution will encourage all countries in the world, and in particular the member states, to introduce legislation to prevent this phenomenon, to punish those responsible for the crimes and to guarantee access to justice for the victims, and to cooperate in financial investigations to recover goods and money stemming from trafficking and re-introduced into the world economy.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking, whether it is sexual exploitation, forced labour, organ trafficking, child soldiering or the trafficking of infants, affects all societies today and must no longer be tolerated. the european convention on human rights, the european social charter and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the universal declaration of human rights and all relevant international human rights treaties condemn trafficking in human beings as one of the worst forms of human rights violations, because it violates the dignity and integrity of the person. i would like to call on the eu to strengthen coordination, cooperation and the exchange of information, to strengthen financial assistance and communication between member state governments and third countries. in addition, given the insufficient level of international cooperation on trafficking in human beings, the eu must urgently strengthen cooperation with ngos and other international organisations and have appropriate legislation in place to effectively combat trafficking in human beings in all its forms. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings remains one of the most heinous and current crimes, affecting various categories of vulnerable people through modern forms of slavery and violation of human rights. sexual exploitation, forced labour, organ trafficking are just some of the aspects that feed a global phenomenon that requires a holistic approach and equally global responses and strategies. coordination, cooperation and the exchange of information, including with third countries, are essential in the fight against transnational trafficking in human beings, to be pursued both through effective action to combat and suppress the crime of exploitation and through the creation of systems to identify, protect and assist victims, addressing all the factors that contribute to facilitating this appalling phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the trafficking of human beings is one of the most serious issues that the eu is facing in the present moment and this lucrative business need to be fought at every level of governance. since the start of the refugee crisis in europe, more than 10 000 unaccompanied migrant children have disappeared. this cannot be tolerated and we must do everything within our capabilities to stop these activities. in terms of external actions, we need to strengthen our regional and international cooperation in order to put pressure on the human traffickers and we must include this aspect in our dealings with third countries in our neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on combating trafficking in human beings in the european union's external relations because i am firmly convinced that this new form of slavery must be condemned and combated by all available means. this modern form of human trafficking, which consists in reducing people to commodities and objects and which mainly affects the most vulnerable, such as women and children, is the tragic new frontier of the business of international organized crime and constitutes the worst form of human exploitation and violence. trafficking, exploitation and slavery mean virtually all forms of violence against the most vulnerable: the european union has a duty to protect the rights of the child. all these are repugnant, degrading practices which the international community must combat with all its might. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat trafficking in human beings, including through the use of the eu's human rights instruments.
in writing. ‒ in recent parliamentary sessions we have repeatedly addressed issues related to war situations, women raped, child soldiers, the exploitation of entire populations and their subjugation to the absurd will of ruthless dictatorial governments formally democratic. i think it is time to get out of the box and to recognize that there are realities, even very close to us, in which people are treated like objects, without dignity or respect. we have a very powerful weapon for promoting human rights if we make this issue a priority in the international relations which the union undertakes with third countries. we should remember that people are worth more than goods and that the protection of the weakest is a pillar of this union. i support this report with great conviction: i believe that from now on any relations with third countries must take account of the implications in terms of combating trafficking, organised crime which sells women and children.
in writing. trafficking in human beings is a phenomenon on the rise as a result of the migration crisis affecting the eu. the crisis has also created confusion between the different definitions of this phenomenon and it is essential that appropriate responses are given to solve the problem efficiently. the european parliament's proposal recognises human trafficking as a form of slavery and therefore a serious crime. it also stressed the importance of distinguishing between human trafficking and migrant smuggling, and called for legal certainty. it also sees the need to combat corruption at the level of national and international institutions. it also recognised the work done so far, but stressed the need for greater cooperation between the institutions and the implementation of european guidelines for the identification of victims of such violations. i am confident that this document will help to protect fundamental rights, and i am voting in favour of parliament's proposal.
in writing. – on the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu’s external relations, i voted in favour. due to human trafficking’s enormous profit, the supply of it has flourished tremendously, which has hugely harmed human rights and people’s safety. according to the report, child trafficking in africa is the highest in the world, which is intolerable as children are the future of a country, and child soldiering is cruel and grievous which must be stopped. the fight against human trafficking is certainly necessary and inevitable to sustain people’s safety and defend human rights.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a terrible problem, but one that is often ignored in europe and around the world, so i am happy to vote in favour of this report. victims of trafficking are often the most vulnerable in society, including children and the poor. to combat the practice, we need a strong international partnership of cooperation and support for people who have been exploited.
in writing. ‒ given the absolute and overriding need to respect the universal declaration of human rights and given that human trafficking today is a form of modern slavery, a manifestation of one of the worst forms of human rights violation, i can only welcome a proposal to promote the fight against human trafficking in the union's external relations. in order to prevent, deter and punish this practice, the eu needs to strengthen judicial cooperation and express concern about the insufficient level of international coordination on trafficking in human beings. calls for the strengthening of joint actions and concrete measures between the european union, member states, third countries and international actors in order to establish coherent cooperation and promote the systematic exchange of information to investigate and combat trafficking in human beings, by enhancing financial and technical assistance and by strengthening cross-border communication and capacity building at governmental level; the proposal also establishes a clear link between the trafficking of migrants and human trafficking, since the union must pay particular attention to preventing this phenomenon in the context of humanitarian crises, such as the migration phenomenon. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on combating trafficking in human beings in external relations with the union because i believe that it is a serious crime today, one of the worst forms of human rights violation, and that it is not acceptable in a society based on respect for human rights. it is necessary to promote coordination and exchange of information between member states, and to increase their financial and technical support in response to the problem.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration, as i fully agree with your colleague that human trafficking is an unacceptable and intolerable practice in a society, such as the contemporary one, based on respect for human rights. the global dimension of human trafficking requires a global response to combat a phenomenon which, unfortunately, is not yet a crime in all countries of the world. moreover, the spread of the online phenomenon requires greater cooperation not only between the member states of the union and between them and third countries, but also between the commission and the european agencies. i therefore believe that the member states must intensify their efforts to combat a phenomenon which, beyond its geographical dimension, has so many facets that it seems to be extremely widespread. i am also convinced that the union should promote greater attention to the policy on trafficking in human beings in its external action, and i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on human trafficking, a real crime that includes the exploitation of prostitution, child labour and organ trafficking. the causes that trigger and promote this lucrative business controlled and operated by organized crime are clearly highlighted, including wars, corruption, poverty and dysfunctions in legal migration systems. in the envi committee we adopted an opinion, in the drafting of which i played an active part, pointing out, for example, the importance of the role of doctors, nurses and other health workers, who are often the first point of contact for victims, and the need to impose severe penalties in the event of their involvement in organ trafficking. i also called for the promotion of a transparent international system for tracing organs, which ensures the anonymity of the donor, and stressed that many orphaned children can become easy targets for traffickers. another very important issue is climate migrants, another category at risk of trafficking. for these reasons, and in view of the very nature of the report, i can only express my approval.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is an intolerable modern form of slavery, a serious crime and one of the worst violations of human rights. it must be tackled in a holistic manner, focusing not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, child soldiering and trafficking of infants. trafficking in human beings is also a transnational crime of a global nature, which requires effective national laws combined with effective cooperation between states. in many countries around the world, there is still insufficient legislation on this matter and, all too often, the existing legislation is not properly applied. the number of identified victims remains well below estimates and access to justice and psychological and material support is limited or non-existent. i join the call in the resolution for the european union to make the fight against human trafficking and the smuggling of persons one of the guiding principles of its external relations, by promoting the application of un and ilo conventions in third countries and by improving judicial cooperation and the exchange of information between police forces to tackle and defeat international criminal networks.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises human trafficking as a modern form of slavery. unfortunately, this is a growing criminal practice. the report addresses the fundamental distinction to be made between human trafficking and the smuggling of migrants. these two concepts require different legal and practical responses. the union must monitor more closely the way in which third countries use the funds earmarked for cooperation, especially those relating to the fight against illegal immigration and border control. i believe that the member states must do more to counter, including through joint military operations, the networks of human traffickers who are endangering the lives of thousands of desperate people in search of a better life. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report discussed in the afet committee on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the union's external relations. the subject of the text under consideration is extremely sensitive, since it is intended to distinguish legally between trafficking in human beings and the trafficking of migrants. this kind of phenomenon cannot be solved at national level, so it is good that europe has effective instruments to give a community response to human trafficking, which is still a very topical problem. in the case of migrant smuggling, the eu has sought to address the problem through csdp missions such as eunavfor med sophia in the central mediterranean. i agree with the proposal in the text for greater coordination and systematic exchange of information to investigate and combat transnational trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious crimes worldwide and a serious violation of fundamental rights. the european union countries are called upon to prosecute all their citizens for crimes committed in another eu country and to use all the necessary investigative tools. it is also necessary to emphasize the extent of the exploitation of children, often unaware victims of violent acts, for their bodies and minds. women and children, children and adolescents are the most vulnerable groups and must be able to benefit from measures complementary to humanitarian aid. helping women and children means discouraging demand, and given the complexity of the issues and the interconnectedness of the different factors that facilitate trafficking in human beings, a holistic, multidisciplinary and integrated approach is needed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the priorities proposed by the libe committee for this important reorganization of the mff concern, in particular, the need to increase the resources of the asylum, migration and integration fund. strengthening frontex is not a solution to the problem today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also need to increase easo funds to provide member states with the support they need and a fund for rescue operations at sea would also be necessary. this should be a very important priority for us to keep in mind. we have also criticised the creation of the 3 billion euro fund that was negotiated with turkey, (1) because we as parliament were not taken into account in the negotiation stages and (2) because the doubt is that this money will certainly not alleviate the immigrant problem but will be used for something else. that is a fact. the immigration emergency is here and it will stay. it has to be dealt with.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 june a momentous event took place, and perhaps some people here have difficulty understanding it. the british people have said no to the eu and whether we like it or not we have to take that into account. that is why it seemed to me sensible to suspend the finalisation of this report, pending further details on the timing and modalities of brexit. the text deals with priorities to be supported and developed and new challenges for europe. i would just like to point out that the united kingdom left some 5 billion net euros in brussels every year. this money has a considerable weight in the area of resources in the eu and i do not think we can continue to act as if nothing had happened. on the contrary, the need to choose priorities, to focus on them, and to have the courage to neglect others, is becoming even more pressing today. the approach should no longer be the one used for the recent draft budget for 2017, as increasing commitments and reducing payments is certainly the wrong solution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's discussion of the financial framework is one of the most ambitious and important discussions we will have in this parliament. in order to have a strong, effective, efficient and authoritative european union, we also need a financial framework which is equally authoritative and strong and capable of having an impact. i regret to say that the commission and the council have been waiting a long time for this debate. we waited for brexit. we were asked to wait and not to influence the brexit debate and yet we have lost hours, weeks, days and we are back where we started. today we are discussing the report by mr thomas and mr olbrycht, whom i would like to thank for their important work, which is going in the right direction, namely towards a new ambition for the european union. we 're at a crossroads . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that means that, with the review, we have a duty to give answers. the answers must be about jobs, investment, development, migration flows, as well as international cooperation, the great challenges we face. we need to give these answers to citizens, who are frightened and affected by a globalization that is increasingly brutal, but also by our choices in the past that were very wrong and that have affected us deeply. i conclude immediately by saying that we must start with the small things, with the federal budget, with greater integration of the euro area and also with a modern framework, a new and modern multiannual financial framework.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in your proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework i ask you to take account of the enormous damage caused by the suspension of payments since 2011 to the implementation of cohesion and regional policy, which, as you know, is the real source of investment for many countries and regions. the total amount of this policy should not be affected by other requirements, such as providing a concrete response to the migration crisis, without, however, draining resources from this policy, also because cities and regions, which are the main beneficiaries of cohesion policy, are also implementing the measures put in place to deal with the refugee problem and would therefore be draining twice as much resources from that policy. secondly, i believe that the regulations for the revision of the structural and investment funds should be simplified, along with a simplification of the efsi regulation, to make these two instruments more in touch with each other and more cooperative.
on behalf of the efdd group. the text of the taxe committee's report is certainly very welcome. this is something that the two correlators should be acknowledged for, especially because they have included a key point, in my view, namely the role of banks in facilitating tax evasion and avoidance schemes. unfortunately, however, even on this occasion it was not decided to indicate clearly the political responsibilities of individuals and countries involved in practices harmful to the community. those of us who have had a chance to look at the confidential documents have had confirmation of which member states were blocking the different initiatives and to these nations are linked personalities who today lead the eu institutions. we are bound by confidentiality restrictions on documents which the public should be able to see in order to understand the credibility of certain european politicians. if we have nothing to hide, let's make these documents public and each of us take responsibility for ourselves. i also find it absurd that we did not want to hear again from president juncker, who had been overshadowed by the krecké report, and unfortunately we did not want to go all the way with a real comparison. the difficulties we have in accessing documents, and the fact that some have even been lost, as the commission itself admits, show even more clearly that transparency is the key to everything. that is why i believe that all measures, even if they are right, will be ineffective unless all information is made public and accessible to all citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the luxleaks and panama papers scandals represent a serious threat to the stability of the financial system, a global public good, but also the paradoxical merit of having brought to light the processes of tax evasion and avoidance and aggressive tax planning, which must be countered with cooperation and transparency. the uphill road and certainly the brexit affair, which involves one of the world's most important financial centers, do not help to make the geoeconomic picture more intelligible. i am increasingly convinced of the need to strengthen the banking union as part of a genuine economic and monetary union and to combat the moral hazard that is primarily affecting financial institutions, which, as accomplices of the aggressive tax planning of multinationals, have often played a destabilising role. the confidence in western democracy is also based on the confidence of consumers, who unfortunately feel the fragility of the european financial and banking system, a fragility which is also reflected in industrial realities and the process of standardization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, what many of you have called 'speed', 'quickness', i call 'hurry', and hurry is often a bad adviser and almost never leads to good results. so i think that this commission proposal has been rushed too far and that we have forgotten what the priorities must be in order to be able to think about a coast and border guard: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has quite obvious democratic shortcomings and we are talking about the agency, whose responsibilities are not well known, with bureaucrats who can intervene and even take the place of the member states' authorities if they do not respond to the recommendations made. i think it 's something dangerous; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i'm afraid the rush is doing the corporations a favor... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a phenomenon of migration of exceptional scope: europe's response must be absolutely consistent. in order to guarantee the schengen area, i.e. a common area of free movement without internal frontiers, external borders must be controlled in a comprehensive manner. that is why i welcome this proposal for a regulation establishing a european border and coast guard agency, based on the experience acquired by frontex in recent years, which is intended to play a key role in supporting national states on the issue of returns, which is the absolute anomaly of the european reception system. it is enough to think that in italy, for example, in 2015, out of 34 000 deported, 3 488 migrants were actually returned, or just over 10.8%, and will continue to play a supporting role for search and rescue operations. that is why i hope that this important act will be adopted by this house and put into effect as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to build a consensus in record time on the need to manage the external borders of the european union, which are now common borders for the whole of the european union, in a common and solidary manner. unlike walls, the european border and coast guard will be made up of people who will be confronted by other people, migrants, whose fundamental rights must be respected and for whom there is a clear joint and solidarity obligation to search and rescue at sea. the establishment of this agency is a first step towards a common management of the migration phenomenon. but let 's not kid ourselves . the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's migration policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's migration policy. if europe was able to react quickly and decisively to restore the schengen route, it can act with equal ambition to build a genuine common european asylum system, which really takes into account the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we were elected in 2014, what did we say in this house? that the response to this humanitarian migration crisis should not be a response solely and exclusively entrusted to the member states - italy, greece, germany, france - but should be a european response. and that was a european response! not only! a european response, considered and made in a short time, considering that we have been talking about it since 2014, and it is a response, above all, of solidarity. exactly the opposite of what i've heard from many colleagues: it is not a question of national sovereignty, but of solidarity with the states which are in difficulty in the face of the great migratory flows. it is balanced because it takes account of human rights, minors and vulnerable people. so the european border and coast guard is fine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the brexit campaign was conducted on the issue of immigration and the eurosceptics and populists insisted on the inability of the european union to deal effectively with the migration crisis. the commission and the european parliament have worked hard on the package of measures to improve the management and protection of the external borders. i congratulate mr pabriks on his work. i believe that the creation of a european border and coast guard is a fundamental legislative step for two reasons. the first is purely a matter of principle, because in the face of such great challenges as migration, integration and cooperation in the field of border control are more effective. the second is practical, because i think it is very important to combat crossborder crime and human trafficking. all this is necessary to protect and safeguard the citizens of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in an area of free movement without internal frontiers, the management of europe's external frontiers can only be a shared responsibility. the creation of a truly integrated border management system is therefore essential. frontex was limited to assisting member states in managing their external borders. the new agency will do much more. the measures we are discussing today, which include the management of our external borders and the speeding up of the return of irregular migrants and the proper functioning of the asylum system and the strengthening of controls at the external borders of the european union, do not represent a final solution, but they are certainly an important step forward. the establishment of the european return office, which is part of the european border and coast guard, is also an important element of the new system and is important because it confirms the common approach to managing asylum seeker flows.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation we have had in this long year and a half of negotiations with the council and the commission. the events of the last few years and months remind us of the need for europe to make up for lost time in creating an area of security, intelligence and threat prevention. the online environment is now a new playing field where terrorist groups and new forms of organised crime challenge our freedoms and rights and put our economic and social relations at risk. this directive is the first attempt to establish cooperation at european level in the field of cybersecurity and to ensure the security of strategic infrastructures and key digital service providers. the text which i hope we will adopt tomorrow is far from the position adopted by parliament at first reading. we would have liked more but once again the national selfishness and the reluctance of many member states to cede powers where national sovereignty is at its maximum has certainly reduced the initial level of ambition of this proposal. i am, however, very much convinced that the compromise reached is a good basis for working towards the gradual formulation of new common rules and strategies. the creation of obligations for national authorities and strategic actors and the definition of two levels of cooperation between member states, one strategic and one operational, based on the community method, will allow for an ever greater level of integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european response to cybersecurity will also give a major boost to the establishment of the digital single market, which is a strategic objective of this commission and is based on the trust of citizens and consumers in an online environment, and security is an essential factor in this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done with the commission. i believe that cybercrime is one of the most insidious threats facing the world today, with a steep increase on an annual basis, certainly, and at the same time even greater than the measures we are taking. think about it, in the last few years, cybercrime has become a bigger and bigger part of the risks that citizens, businesses and governments are facing. but the media attention is always on the government and corporate side. but we do not consider, or we consider very little, the impact that they can have on small and mediumsized businesses and consumers. for this very reason, i think it would certainly be useful to try to increase the scope and share more information also at the level of small and mediumsized enterprises and citizens who are actually our consumers and the people we must protect in the first place.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the synergy between horizon 2020 and the structural funds can be useful but we need to be clear about how to implement it. the structural funds are aimed at capacity building, responding to the needs of the regions that need them most, with shared management at national and regional levels. horizon 2020 aims at achieving excellence at community level. the crucial difference between the different funds is that while the structural funds amount is in a region, it is predictable, as it receives support for a period of 7 years, horizon 2020 funding is allocated on the basis of competitive criteria. so whether a given project receives support is far from certain. from a practical point of view, synergies make sense in order to allocate resources not used in an operational programme to a project of excellence which has not been able to benefit from funding under horizon. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must stress that the hypocrisy of a european union which, on the one hand, calls for investment in research and innovation and, on the other, takes away as much as 2.2 billion from horizon to allocate to projects of the juncker plan, of dubious utility, is sometimes incompatible with the objectives enshrined in cohesion policy. this means that a very dangerous direction has been taken towards an increasingly two-speed europe, towards an ever-deepening rift between the more and less developed states. we should not be surprised, therefore, if we see the reaction of the people against the european union. in doing so, we are in effect giving up the very idea of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that we are discussing a policy which is already in operation today and with considerable resources. the structural funds, which are programmed by the individual regions and national authorities, account for some 100 billion of investment in research and innovation, 80 billion of which is concentrated in horizon 2020. so we are facing a significant, huge package of resources to strengthen investment in the revival of innovation, especially for our companies, for our research centres, also for our start-ups, new companies, new businesses, especially young people. the subject we are discussing today is something concrete, which perhaps deserves to be examined more closely in the coming months and years, and how these two funds are interacting, and at the same time a page should be written on the future. to create the conditions for greater complementarity and interaction between the two realities, between the two funds, for example: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the regions and the regions are able to use the resources of the structural funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we agree with you, with what you have said and also with the proposal of the european innovation council, and we are all aware that the key words for the effective use of european resources today, especially in such a strategic area as research and cohesion policy, are synergy, complementarity, thematic concentrations on priority issues. in short, all those cross-cutting and combined methods, so to speak, which allow the use, for the same project, of different funds and programmes which also respond to different logics of temporality but which our capacity must bring together, in order to achieve good results, on territorial development projects, on development that crosses with digitisation, on industrial and competitive research, the valorisation of technological excellence, etc. but i fear, as my colleague cabezón ruiz said, that all these new lines of work, which we appreciate you putting forward, there is still not enough widespread expertise where they need to be implemented. so we have to provide a little more technical assistance, to make those good practices known and to help move in that direction.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we note that we will in fact vote on a text negotiated by the commission and the council, since there has been no real involvement of the shadow rapporteurs and therefore of the political groups. while we welcome the inclusion of the reference to the defence of individual national sovereignty and the strengthening of cooperation at european level, we must say that the work is lacking in relation to the general dublin reform, the relocation of migrants or the possibility of creating humanitarian corridors to reach our continent safely. italy and greece are close neighbours in this respect. my city, taranto, along with other cities in the south, is hosting thousands of migrants in hotspots. we can also coordinate transport and safety, maritime safety and it is good to improve monitoring through satellite systems technologies. but all our efforts will be in vain, if not hypocritical, if we limit ourselves to coordinating the work without a real political sharing of responsibility. the risk is that the same countries will always be facing the challenge of migration, and that in the meantime public resources will continue to be squandered here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the many national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for many tasks, in very different fields, such as safety of navigation, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, control of fishing activities and environmental protection. but there is still no real system of cooperation. that's the problem. there are delays and gaps to be filled, such as sharing information on the competences, powers and capabilities of other authorities, increasing the limited number of operational resources, sharing resources and filling gaps in terms of joint planning and operations. the proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level to improve knowledge of the maritime situation and to support coherent and cost-effective action. such cooperation is crucial in the current migration context. the strong migratory flows faced by the european union require a strengthening of material and human solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, your country has the difficult task of chairing meetings at a decisive moment for the future of europe. you have said some important words today when you spoke of the basic nucleus of the european project. he added: "we are proud to be part of this story". we are happy about that, mr president, and we tell you that the best way to be part of this story is to defend, tooth and nail, the values that express european history. you said that we must overcome our fears, that we must not be under the illusion that the member states alone can do everything and solve all the problems. holy words. we therefore expect this presidency to take strong, concrete and united initiatives, because this is not the time to divide europe into north and south, east and west. we need to act quickly and if the united kingdom wants to leave the union, it must notify us as soon as possible. these guys are leaving as the ship sinks. johnson, farage, cameron, they're letting the ship sink. it's better for us not to have anything to do with these characters. as far as we are concerned, change must begin now. on the social front, we want the revision of the directive on the posting of workers to be brought forward again, we want the social pillar, we want to put an end to the season of austerity once and for all: we do not want to hear any more the word sanctions, punishments, gendarmerie, bureaucracy. the citizens want positive things, not negative things. and we call for a strong initiative by your presidency against tax evasion and avoidance. vice-president timmermans has highlighted some important points which we share and which we also entrust to the slovak presidency. on immigration, you referred to security and the root causes of the problems caused by migration. i'll take it! one word is missing, prime minister: i'm not going to say anything. reception and resettlement in european countries of those fleeing war and terrorism. say this word. he'll be better off with himself, with the values he said he wanted to defend. in conclusion, mr president, your speech was a balanced one, which we appreciate. we call on you to be more courageous and to remember always that the foundation of the european union is not only its history but above all its values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, i have read your programme carefully, particularly the restoration of the citizen's role as the centre of the community. i propose two basic actions to achieve this. the first: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we must put forward an extraordinary plan to fight also against inequality, poverty and unemployment, because 41 million poor people is an unacceptable figure. the second is a fair, common and solidary response to the migration crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. slovakia, i remind you, mr prime minister, is one of the countries which has been most opposed to the compulsory redistribution of quotas, which was voted for by the five star movement. i would remind you, however, that solidarity is not an optional but a specific duty enshrined in article 80 of the tfeu and those who fail to do so should be severely punished, both economically and politically. these are the steps by which this presidency can bring about a change of course, a real response to the european citizens and can avoid the risk of fragmentation and the post-brexit domino effect. the return of nationalism, ladies and gentlemen, is not the cause but the consequence of the real problem, which is the political paralysis of the union. with the usual slogans, hiding the dust under the carpet, we won't get far. it's time to make bold choices. the land can be reclaimed: time does not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a favourable prejudice on the part of our group and our delegation towards someone who has at least had the historical merit of proving in his own country, as president of the council, that socialism is not against patriotism, it is not against identity, it is not exempt from the duty of a state to defend the frontiers and the rights of its people. i would therefore like to offer a word of advice to those of you who, like you, represent a people which has shown, as i said, that it will not give up its identity or its sovereignty by submitting to certain absurd choices by brussels: the european parliament, which has been the guardian of the treaties, has been the guardian of the treaties, and the european parliament has been the guardian of the treaties. she writes that new ideas will be proposed in bratislava: the commission is not prepared to accept the proposals of mr juncker and his associates, because otherwise it will continue down the wrong road of undemocratically suppressing the identity and rights of peoples. you must have the courage to go ahead and do the opposite of what you have been told, to stay true to what you said in your campaign, to what you said to your people. (the speaker agrees to answer a question for a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i have not spoken at all about what you are saying. but i am convinced and confident that the result of brexit will be anything but the rebirth of racist sentiments, because the british people, like all the peoples of europe, of course starting with my own people, take pride in being anti-racist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president fico, i appreciate the wisdom you have shown in assuming the presidency of the european union at such a critical time, and this gives us confidence. you talk about reviving the european project: it seems to us, listening to her and reading what she writes, that this vision of europe is too limited to the usefulness, the concreteness, the economic aspects of the european project. i say and i believe that utility, practicality and economy are the fruit, the result of the european project, not the substance, not the real strength and root. i am the result for all citizens when europe is strong, and it is strong because it is united and it is united because it is united. because if this project were reduced to economic benefits only, we would be together at the time of the redistribution of funds but we would say goodbye and turn our backs at the time when we must share a sacrifice, a difficulty, a crisis. i say that this solidarity must be rediscovered, and you represent 27 countries in unity, not 27 states in search of an identity, which is not denied but brought together in the european union. there are not only national interests here; there is a common interest to be built, where national interests are realized. and one last note: the citizens. i appreciate that you put the citizens at the centre of the project and that you argue that the citizens must feel that europe is close to them. but what can the italian or greek citizens, who have taken in hundreds of thousands of migrants and see europe turning its back on them, including its own country, think of this project? you did not mention the dublin reform in your programme: the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the implementation of the reforms it has proposed.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the preparation of the commission work programme for 2017 ((2016/2773 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to vice-president timmermans, i should like to inform you that i will not be able to grant the blue card questions because the voting must start at 12.30 and is very long, over an hour, so that very probably the catch-the-eye procedure will not be possible either.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, in presenting his 2016 action plan, began with the following sentence: "it's time to go beyond the ordinary administration". and why was it considered useful and necessary to go beyond ordinary administration? because, juncker told us, citizens expect the eu to make a difference. after a year, what results do we see? in what areas can our citizens say that the eu has made a difference? to build an effective and coherent plan for 2017 it is necessary to answer these questions and it is necessary to respond concretely, facing the situations. no one here will deny that in recent months the european institutions have been faced with important challenges, new challenges, even unexpected challenges. but has the union made a difference? have the ten key actions proposed in the commission's 2016 work plan made a difference? it is clear to all of us that some results are not achieved in the short term, that it takes time to see the consolidated effects in the field of the economy and the pacification of crisis areas. but the direction must be clear and the speed must be appropriate to the needs: some initiatives such as the circular economy are positive indications and we will work together to ensure that they are properly implemented. but the situation in europe is difficult and, for some of our countries, even serious. we must act in a more strategic, coordinated and, in my view, more understandable way for the citizens. the creation of the strategic investment fund was intended to be a strong signal, but its implementation lacked a strong soul and vision, and once again the data show how much the stronger countries were rewarded at the expense of the weaker ones. the right direction is one in which the union helps europe and europeans to free up and activate energy; the 2017 work plan must make a difference in creating a favorable habitat for many and not just a few, even if excellent, those who simply ask to be free from bureaucratic burdens, taxes and prejudices to build a life. the liquidity is there: the ecb keeps putting money into circulation. let's get them into the real economy. there is also a europe which looks outwards and which worries us even more. this is the case of a europe which has a global strategy but is no longer able to engage in dialogue with russia except through the instrument of sanctions. it is a europe that is closing the balkan corridor, without developing a strategy to contain the other corridors of migration, such as the central mediterranean. the commission's 2017 work plan will be the central plan of the entire legislature. one that may have the strength and time to be fully developed in the next two years. we therefore expect it to live up to the commission's own wishes, that is to say, to enable us to say in a year's time that this time the commission has really made a difference. i don't see some i don't see any chairman of any group. mr farage is constantly attacked, but i am the co-chairman of the efdd group and the only chairman present in this debate today, because when there is work to be done and plans to be made, i am always present. so i ask for more respect for my role.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the programme for 2017, the year in which we will be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome and we will be looking in the mirror at a moment of truth about the europe we want: the european union is not a single entity, but a single entity. or the europe that is showing itself to be very worrying, with a reappropriation by the states of their sovereignty, a demand that is an escape from european responsibilities? a europe divided between visegrad on the one hand and the directors on the other? or a europe that is struggling to bring together histories, peoples and legitimate interests in the search for unity and a common european interest? so i think we 're gonna have to decide: we are waiting for the elections in one country today, in another country tomorrow, or are we deciding? i think it's time to decide. the programme must be ambitious: the contents are there, the mogherini plan, many other things. what concerns me is whether there is, even in this parliament, and not just in the commission, a political will on the part of the groups which believe in the future of europe to work together in an ambitious, advanced way. that's the hard part! the history of europe is in our hands, today, for the most part, at least. it will depend on us whether we can really steer it in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2017 - the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome - must be a turning point for the salvation of europe. we need a real political new deal, as mr timmermans said, for the union, after the wound of brexit and the inability to respond to social and humanitarian challenges. with the new institutional dialogue we must not only change the priorities of the european agenda but also rebuild the foundations of citizenship, solidarity and hope, starting from the pillar of social rights which is based on education and culture, as a condition of freedom, equality, good employment, but also of civil coexistence. today we are painfully discovering that without investment in education and culture there will be no growth policy, no foreign policy, no migration policy, no security policy, and in this context we welcome the new strategy for cultural diplomacy proposed by mogherini, starting with the mediterranean area and the skills agenda. but we need to invest more in 2017. we also need a new deal for the budget: it is now urgent to mobilise own resources and take effective measures against tax evasion and avoidance, including by the major players in the network, to secure resources for new policies and relaunch the multiannual financial and development programme.
i have received seven motions for resolutions at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. employment must remain the commission's top priority. investments should be planned to support the transition to an innovative digital economy and to restore the competitiveness of our business system by facilitating access to capital and putting in place effective policies to protect intellectual property rights. in the energy sector, the energy union must be effectively achieved to ensure energy security and sustainable energy at prices that are acceptable to citizens and businesses. to better deal with the migration crisis, cooperation with the countries of transit and origin of migration flows must be strengthened, as we are doing, and effective programmes for the resettlement of asylum seekers must be set up. finally, on terrorism and radicalisation, the implementation of counter-terrorism measures should be monitored, moving from the desirable judicial and police cooperation to the sharing of information between national authorities, europol and eurojust, and countering emerging trends in terrorist financing.
mr president, i ask the president to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution pursuant to rule 61 (2). i ask that the dossier be referred back to the committee responsible in order to enter directly into the interinstitutional negotiations with the council.
in writing. ‒ the 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement provided the legal framework for bilateral relations between the eu and azerbaijan, for political, economic and legislative cooperation. it has now been proposed to add an additional protocol to the agreement, aimed at regulating the gradual participation of the state in european programmes, so as to facilitate cooperation and the achievement of the required stability and development. the proposal, however, clearly emphasizes the need to monitor, as a prerequisite, the respect of human rights, in the light of the progress made by the country in recent months. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ since 1999, the european union and azerbaijan have been linked by a partnership and cooperation agreement which aims to strengthen their mutual relations. since 2010, the caucasian state has expressed a desire to strengthen its relations with the eu, showing a strong interest in participating in eu programmes in 2012. the situation in the country has deteriorated in recent years, however, and increasing difficulties have emerged in respecting the rule of law and civil society participation in the country, leading to a stalemate in the negotiations. today we must firmly resume relations with azerbaijan and promote their general strengthening. my support for the nicolai report is based on the desire to allow the former soviet republic to participate in certain union programmes open to third countries by setting a set of financial and technical rules. europe has a vested interest in promoting democracy and stability in its neighbourhood, and to do so it must maintain strong relations with its partners, who can also be, as in this case, key players in its energy security.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement, but it is too vague and lacking in detail, so i voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ during this plenary we have spoken a lot about priority issues such as the external dimension and the union's neighbourhood policy. the report by my colleague, whom i supported, is perfectly suited to this context, and calls for the strengthening of the relations and cooperation which the european union has enjoyed with azerbaijan for many years. today the european parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of a protocol establishing financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain union programmes open to third countries. the specific criteria for the accession of azerbaijan to the individual programmes will then be set by the commission from time to time, in consultation with the azerbaijani authorities. azerbaijan is a strategic partner of the union in many respects, not least in the energy sector. the areas of cooperation are, however, many and i therefore welcome the strengthening of relations with this important country and its greater involvement in the field of action of the union's programmes.
in writing. ‒ the gradual opening-up of certain european union programmes to neighbourhood countries is one of the main pillars of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). in order to facilitate such participation, the commission has since 2007 been mandated by the council to negotiate framework agreements with the partner countries involved, operating in a number of areas. in this context, i support the adoption of the framework agreement in question, which aims to promote cooperation with azerbaijan in order to promote respect for the rule of law, human rights and democracy in a territory which is playing an increasingly important role, particularly in energy cooperation and trade with the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which sets out financial and technical rules to enable azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu in the energy sector. however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership must be considered in all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership. in recent months, the european parliament has expressed concern about the increasing difficulties faced by civil society actors and organisations in azerbaijan. the rule of law, human rights and democracy are essential principles on which the eu's relations with third countries must be based. in this context, the framework agreement in question aims to promote cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan by encouraging people-to-people contacts for the benefit of civil society.
in writing. ‒ the 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) largely regulates relations between the eu and azerbaijan. the protocol to the jcp would add a framework to govern azerbaijan's participation in eu programmes with cooperation, development and stability objectives of a neighbouring country with a key role in the neighbourhood policy. the process has been frozen until now due to the human rights situation, but following a series of important developments in recent months such as the release and suspension of the sentences of arif and leyla yunus, a presidential pardon for 148 detainees, many of whom are human rights defenders, and the conditional release of journalist ismayilova, it was decided to restart it. however, the situation in azerbaijan will be monitored in the coming months before the agreement enters into force and if the situation deviates from this positive trajectory, the european commission would be asked to block the implementation of the protocol. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ cooperation agreements between the eu and azerbaijan date back to 1999. the two sides have been engaged in negotiations for some years now to renew and strengthen relations in order to achieve the objectives of the eastern partnership, to which azerbaijan belongs. after a period of stagnation lasting a few years, relations were resumed in 2014 and the country provided a series of assurances that will allow it to participate in specific european programmes under the enp (european neighbourhood policy). the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is not limited to energy security or purely economic issues but the conclusion of the protocol will be a way for the european union to closely monitor the development of a democratic society and the rule of law which are for the union itself essential and indispensable principles on which to base and maintain international partnerships. i joined the rest of the house in approving the conclusion of the protocol, partly because i believe that partnerships of this kind contribute to the stability and security of the eastern part of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a 'framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan' on the general principles for the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in union programmes, as i believe that accession to european union programmes would promote cultural, scientific and economic links, while also increasing people-to-people contacts for the benefit of society. the eu-azerbaijan relations are also not limited to energy security but cover all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership, to which azerbaijan is a party.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that this proposal represents a further step forward by the european union towards creating an open and peaceful community. a gradual increase in cooperation between azerbaijan and the union will, in my view, benefit both countries. the eu will continue to benefit from the energy partnership, but will also show its willingness to open its doors to the neighbouring countries. this participation will initially be allocated to certain programmes agreed between the european commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan, but in my view it only represents the basis for future cooperation with that country and perhaps with other neighbouring countries. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol establishing technical and financial rules to enable the state of azerbaijan to accede to certain european union programmes open to third countries. the protocol is part of the european neighbourhood policy and provides for measures to renew and strengthen contractual relations. the intensification of relations with the european union would not only allow for improved cooperation in the industrial and energy sectors, but also a special focus on ensuring the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy in azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i believe that azerbaijan's participation in eu programmes represents a further strengthening of bilateral relations in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership and cooperation between the two countries. the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is also linked to the energy sector and all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership, such as the promotion of the rule of law, human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-azerbaijan framework agreement, which lays down financial and technical rules that will allow azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. i believe that this partnership agreement is very useful in promoting cultural, political and financial relations between the two international players. azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu in the energy sector. however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership must be considered in all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership.
in writing. - i abstain because the report is very vague.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this measure to lay down financial and technical rules in regard to the participation of azerbaijan in certain eu programmes. this is a very important step as azerbaijan is an important partner to the eu in several key areas including regional security and energy. this agreement will also mean increased eu influence in the country, which means that we would be in a better position to influence the country and its process towards rule of law, democracy and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan on union programmes. in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, that protocol provides for the implementation of financial and technical rules that would allow the caucasian country to participate in some of the european programmes open to third countries, thus giving azerbaijan the opportunity to become more integrated into the european reality and allowing the strengthening of bilateral relations that have been stagnating since 2013. for the european union, azerbaijan is a strategic partner in the energy field, but the mere economic relationship cannot ignore the attention that europe pays to the aspect of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. in recent months, key civil society actors have reported growing social tensions and violations of fundamental rights, as well as a worrying situation of corruption at all levels. it is therefore important that the eu also commits itself to encouraging social dialogue and people-to-people cooperation in the country.
in writing. this recommendation analyses the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of azerbaijan, of the other part; the report shall cover the general principles of its participation in eu programmes. it also aims to establish financial and technical rules to ensure that azerbaijan can join certain eu projects open to third countries. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has also been involved in the fight against organised crime. the agreement aims to promote cooperation in certain areas and to encourage people-to-people contacts for the benefit of society. in the light of the above, i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the protocol setting out financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in specific european union programmes open to third countries. the terms and conditions for the participation of azerbaijan shall be determined by agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan. the opening up of these union programmes to neighbouring countries is one of the components of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). azerbaijan expressed its interest in participating in union programmes in 2012. human rights, democracy and the rule of law remain fundamental principles on which the eu's relations with third countries must be based. the framework agreement aims to promote cooperation in certain areas and to encourage people-to-people contacts for the benefit of society.
in writing. ‒ the european union should have effective cooperation relations with third countries close to its borders. i believe that these measures represent the basic measure for mutually beneficial cooperation with azerbaijan in order to improve relations in the eastern quadrant of the european continent.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the framework agreement aims to promote cooperation in certain fields, cultural, scientific and economic links and to encourage people-to-people contacts for the benefit of society. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ as is known, the commission already supported the need to implement an opening-up policy towards neighbourhood countries in 2006. this approach was supported by the council, which gave the commission itself the mandate to conclude cooperation agreements. this is the context of the agreement with azerbaijan, which had already expressed its interest in participating in union programmes in october 2012. i would like to say that i agree with the commission's proposal, since the united kingdom plays a key role in the energy sector and the european union is also seeking to strengthen human rights through the protocol. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) entered into force on 1 july 1999. since 2010, the eu and azerbaijan have been engaged in negotiations aimed at renewing and strengthening contractual relations, in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership, to which azerbaijan is a party. unfortunately, since 2013, these negotiations have been at a standstill. in the meantime, the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. i would like to stress that azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu in the energy sector and that the eu must promote the restoration of peaceful relations between azerbaijan and armenia. i voted in favour of approving this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation by mr nicolai on azerbaijan's participation in eu programmes is part of the eu's neighbourhood policy, on which the european parliament has been called upon to vote on several occasions. as i have done on other occasions, i am positive and i support this kind of policy pursued by the eu, which aims to establish good relations with third countries, and in particular with neighbouring countries. i believe that a partnership and cooperation agreement such as the one proposed in this case with azerbaijan represents an important growth opportunity not only for the country, which can therefore benefit from european programmes, but also for the eu itself, which can thus extend its democratic values and principles beyond its borders. i think that is a very good reason for supporting this agreement, which is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and azerbaijan will allow azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes and agencies in order to promote reform, modernisation and democratic transition in the context of the neighbourhood policy. in addition, the azerbaijani state will be proposed to further develop relations with the eu in the field of culture, education, environment through intensification of contacts and people-to-people relations. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy of recent years has been to emphasise a stronger and more active interest of the union in the south caucasus region. azerbaijan is one of the european union's most interesting regional partners in terms of the contribution it could make to the continent's energy security. it is therefore very important to continue cooperation within the framework of the strategic energy partnership with the eu and ensuring its participation in eu programmes can be a useful tool. at the same time, it is important to ensure that azerbaijan and the other neighbouring countries respect human rights, which must remain our top priority.
in writing. ‒ with reference to the draft budget for the financial year 2016, section iii - commission, it was noted that there was a surplus from the financial year 2015, amounting to eur 1 349 million. the text proposed is to include in the 2016 budget the positive result achieved last year, which was due to an increase in revenue, a reduction in expenditure and some exchange rate differences. i voted in favour of this because it will reduce the contribution paid by the member states on the basis of gross national income.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the fernandes report on draft amending budget no 2/16 on the surplus for the financial year 2015. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the adoption of this text will reduce the contributions that member states will have to pay to the union for this year, thus freeing up resources that could be used by national levels to meet commitments on refugees.
in writing. ‒ the fernandes report is balanced and acceptable. the measure aims to transfer to the 2016 budget the surplus of eur 1,349 million of the 2015 implementation, thus reducing the share of the gni-based contributions of the member states to the union budget. that is why i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i support draft budgetary adjustment no 2/2016, which aims to allocate to the 2016 budget the surpluses (which amount to eur 1 349 million) of the 2015 financial year. i agree with the rapporteur of this resolution, mr josé manuel fernandes, that the member states must take the opportunity offered by the reimbursement of this sum to reinvest the resources in question in the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund in order to deal more effectively with the dramatic phenomenon of the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because i believe it is necessary to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of eur 1.349 million resulting from the implementation of the 2015 budget. the main components of the 2015 surplus are: the positive result on the revenue side of eur 980 million, the under-implementation of expenditure of eur 187 million, and the exchange rate differences amounting to eur 182 million. the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will allow for a reduction of as much as eur 1,349 billion in the share of member states' gross national income-based contributions to the eu budget. the member states will thus have the opportunity to use the return of funds to honour their commitments, particularly in relation to the refugee crisis. in the spring of 2016, member states, it should be recalled, contributed only 82 million euros to the trust fund for africa and 60 million euros to the madad trust fund on the syrian crisis. instead of adjusting the gross national income contribution to the union budget, any surplus should be reused to make up for the shortfall in payment appropriations. however, it is expected that this issue will be resolved in the context of the review of the mff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2015 financial year, which amounts to eur 1 349 million. the report also urges member states to use the opportunity offered by the return of funds to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis. i particularly appreciated the part where it is stressed that the union budget should be allowed to reuse any surplus resulting from under-implementation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings which infringe union competition law in order to meet financing needs, especially in the context of payment appropriations shortfalls.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of the 2015 budget year resulted in a surplus of around eur 1.4 billion which will be entered in the 2016 budget, which translates into savings for member states in financing the union budget for the current year. it would be desirable, however, that in future budget surpluses, rather than reducing expenditure for the member states, should remain available to the union itself to meet its own needs for the payment of programmes and actions. in view of the emergency of the refugee crisis, i hope that the surpluses will be used by the countries of the union to honour their commitments in relation to this crisis and that the resources will therefore go to two funds set up for this purpose. i am particularly concerned that, to date, the states have paid only eur 82 million to the trust fund for africa and eur 69 million to the madad trust fund for the management of the syrian crisis, compared to the eur 1.8 billion and 500 million originally agreed. i thought i would vote in favour of the report because i hope that the member states, especially those most exposed to the migration crisis, will be able to allocate surplus resources to this end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'draft amending budget no 2/16: surplus for the financial year 2015' as i believe that the surplus for the financial year 2015 of the union can be used to meet the financing needs of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i am very pleased to know that the eu's surplus revenues are going back to the member states instead of being wasted and corrupted, as is the case elsewhere. this is the europe i want and like: i would like to see a europe which sets itself objectives, sets a budget to achieve them, and if it has more money in its pocket, returns it to its donors (the states, some of which are in dire need of it at the moment) instead of inventing new ways of spending it. a europe that plans its investments without taking on additional debts, of which there are already too many.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget which aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2015 financial year. i believe that the member states can use the opportunity offered by this return of funds to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis, and to match the union's contribution with the two dedicated union trust funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft amending budget for the 2016 budget. while i do not entirely agree with the call to use the repayment of these funds for the migrant and refugee crisis, i do welcome the reduction in the contributions of the states to the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as it is a technical budgetary aspect and not a problem.
in writing. draft amending budget no 2/16 aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the financial year 2015 amounting to eur 1 349 million. this surplus is determined by a positive result on the revenue side and a not very positive result on the payments side. the adoption of this draft also aims to encourage member states to use these funds to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis. it also states that the eu budget should be allowed to reuse any surplus resulting from under-implementation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings that infringe eu competition law in order to meet its own financing needs. i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the commission proposal for draft amending budget no 2/2016 concerning the entry in the budget of the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2015. the commission has entered into the budget for 2015 with a surplus of eur 1,349 million. i thought it appropriate to support the commission's proposal, hoping for a quick solution as the accounting of the surplus will imply a reduction in the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ we welcome draft amending budget no 2/16 with its details on the surplus for the financial year 2015. the committee on budgets (budg) has analysed and approved the final budget of eur 1.349 billion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european union, on the other hand, has kept its commitments, allocating 1.8 billion for the emergency trust fund for africa and 500 million for madad.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 2/2016 which aims to enter in the budget the surplus from the 2015 financial year amounting to eur 1349 million. the report also urges member states to use the opportunity offered by this return of funds to honour their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ considering that draft amending budget no 2/2016 is intended to incorporate into the 2016 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2015 budget, which amounts to eur 1 349 million, i am pleased to note that the document submitted to this house calls for the opportunity offered by the return of funds to honour its commitments in relation to the migrant crisis. i am in favour of the council's position on draft amending budget no 2/2016.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr fernandes, epp, contains the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 which takes account of the surplus of the financial year 2015. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (the 'european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states'). the commission is also proposing that the surplus of last year be effectively reinvested, for example to deal with the migration crisis. the commission's proposal is that the european parliament should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the second draft amending budget (dab) for 2016 proposes to enter the surplus for the financial year 2015 in the budget for the financial year 2016, in accordance with article 18 (3) of the financial regulation. i voted in favour of the report, as the inclusion of this surplus of eur 1 349 billion will lead to a corresponding reduction in the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget approved today by the plenary provides for the introduction into the 2016 union budget of the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2015 financial year. this is an amount of €1.3 billion which should be returned to the member states in the form of a reduction in national contributions to the eu budget. the text calls on the member states to use these resources to meet the commitments they have made in the context of the migration crisis by contributing to the two trust funds set up to deal with the refugee emergency. to date, only €82 million has been paid by the states to the africa trust fund and €69 million to the syrian crisis trust fund, while the union's contributions amount to €1.8 billion and more than €500 million respectively. as the commitment made by the individual member states was to match the eu contribution, we are still far from what was promised to provide financial resources for the management of the projects provided for by the two funds. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text we voted on today aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus resulting from the execution of the 2015 financial year, which amounts to eur 1.349 million. this surplus was due to a positive result on the revenue side of 980 million, a shortfall in expenditure of 187 million and exchange rate differences of a further 182 million. on the revenue side, the two main components are interest on arrears and fines and a positive result on the own resources side, from which a negative result of surpluses, balances and adjustments is deducted. the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will therefore reduce the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget by 1,349 billion. the report also urges member states to use the opportunity offered by this return of funds to honour their commitments in particular in relation to the refugee crisis. i particularly agree with the part of the report which stresses that the union budget should be allowed to reuse any surplus in order to meet financing needs, especially in the context of the payment appropriations gap, and which proposes that this issue be resolved in the context of the next review of the mff.
in writing. ‒ in july 2013, the commission presented a new text for a directive on the security of the union's networks and information. the proposal, which aims to improve levels of computer security, aims to make crossborder cooperation, based on telephone, transport and financial services, more secure. the directive lays down precise obligations for the member states, from the drawing up of national strategies to the designation of supervisory authorities and the establishment of a cooperation group, which provides an opportunity for exchanges of experience and clarifications. considering the importance of putting in place all the necessary tools to improve the quality and security of the online world, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the schwab report approving the council's position with a view to adopting the directive laying down measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. the text presented is the result of an agreement reached with the council and is the first instrument the union has set itself to overcome the current fragmentation in cybersecurity and to strengthen cooperation between member states. the new rules provide for the establishment of a cooperation group to exchange information between national authorities and to provide them with assistance. each member state will have to adopt a national strategy on the security of network and information systems. there are also safety and notification requirements for operators of essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health, banking and the supply of drinking water.
in writing. ‒ although the text is largely balanced and acceptable, there are still some passages which could open up the door to future criticism, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in the eu, as a result of the purely optional approach followed so far, does not offer sufficient protection against risks and incidents to the security of network and information in the eu. a range of specific infrastructures and service providers are particularly vulnerable. i am thinking in particular of banks, stock exchanges, energy generation, transmission and distribution, transport (air, rail and sea), health, internet services and public administrations. regulatory obligations should therefore be introduced to address the existing legislative gaps. the directive adopted today will establish a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union and will strengthen cooperation between member states, helping to prevent future cyber attacks on important interconnected infrastructures in europe. the fragmented cyber security that currently characterises the eu makes us all vulnerable and represents a major risk to the security of europe as a whole. the directive adopted today is therefore of fundamental importance in order to deal adequately with cyberattacks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive aimed at preventing cyberattacks on financial, telephone and transport systems. the measures envisaged aim to ensure a safer online environment that allows for the full development of e-commerce and the sharing economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on a 'high common level of security of network and information systems in the union' because i believe it is important to establish minimum requirements for the security of information networks, applicable between all the member states of the union, with a view to ensuring a harmonised approach between states that can establish a common level of security and prevent any incidents.
in writing. ‒ information systems are becoming an increasingly important medium and are entering the everyday lives of citizens. for this reason, a high level of security of such systems should be ensured to prevent the loss or dissemination of confidential information. you can't take that chance. i am in favour of this proposal for a directive because it sets the objective of implementing security by means of the adoption by the member states of minimum requirements for the safeguarding of information systems. i am in favour of setting up a cooperation group for strategic coordination and a network for operational cooperation and working towards a more coherent approach to cybersecurity across the union, because only these instruments can make it possible to coordinate european actions and to ensure economies of scale in defence construction. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ cybercrime is one of the most insidious threats in the world today, with an increasingly high annual rate of increase, and needs to be thoroughly understood in order to put in place effective countermeasures. in recent years, cybercrime has become an increasingly important risk for citizens, businesses and governments. however, media attention is often focused on events involving governments and multinational companies, and the impact on the economy, especially smes, is often not properly considered. smes are at the heart of europe's social fabric and their importance is fundamental both for the economy and for global security. smes and citizens are the most frequent victims of targeted cyber attacks: fraud, theft of data or intellectual property. losses which are difficult to estimate in the short term but which represent a huge cost to companies, especially in the long term, not only as a direct loss but above all in terms of recovery costs, loss of business and jobs. it would be useful to have more data on the extent of the cybercrime phenomenon, as statistics are insufficient and fragmented at present.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this directive is the first step towards building real cooperation at european level on cybercrime, by increasing the security of digital environments and services, which all too often prove to be a vehicle and tool at the disposal of groups that operate to sow terror or expand their criminal activities. the news and the repetition of the incidents should have encouraged the member states to be more courageous. but once again, they have allowed their own selfishness and reticence to prevail in sharing their respective national defence strategies, thus precluding the possibility of creating a genuine european security area from the outset. the compromise reached, however, represents a good starting point, which should be implemented and extended, filling in any gaps that still remain. the direction is the right one, to oblige national authorities and operators to cooperate at transnational level, overcoming the current fragmentation which has certainly not helped. the aim remains to create an integrated defence system that will increase the confidence of citizens and consumers, giving new impetus to the completion of one of the commission's strategic objectives, namely the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation is an incentive to secure the private networks and information systems on which the functioning of our societies and economies is based. operating systems may be subject to security incidents, caused by human error, natural events, technical failures or malicious attacks. the recommendation also calls for better coordination of interventions, consistency in strategies and sharing of rules. for these reasons i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that a new regulatory framework on cybersecurity and the protection of strategic infrastructure is needed. in this connection, it is important to provide for new rules on the security levels needed to protect these infrastructures from cyberattacks. therefore, operators of critical infrastructure will need to have cyber resilience programmes in place and report incidents to their national cyber resilience departments.
in writing. ‒ i voted to adopt this report as it covers an increasingly important area of security; the security of data traffic and networks. in our constantly digitalising societies, more and more services are basing their operations on networks and information systems. it is crucial that we ensure the safety and integrity of these systems, as in today’s world they are necessary for the proper functioning of our societies and economies. with this in mind, i welcome several actions taken by this legislation such as the establishment of computer emergency response teams in the member states and the call for the commission to set up new common security standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported, together with the whole s&d group, the agreement reached with the council a few months ago on this very sensitive issue. with the adoption of the network security directive at second reading, europe is taking a step forward - a step forward that is necessary and that we have all been waiting for for a long time - in cybersecurity and cooperation between states. the commission considers particularly important among the points reached in the final agreement the requirements for the various network operators to also take important security measures and coordinate with the public authorities.
in writing. in the light of the growing importance of networks and information systems, the commission has set out a method for creating a single regulatory framework for all member states. the proposal therefore introduces minimum requirements for the security of network and information systems (nis) in the union, with a view to creating a level playing field and reducing existing legislative gaps. these obligations include the need to establish nis authorities, it response teams, national nis strategies and cooperation plans; to require certain sectors to report potential problems and make the necessary changes to ensure network security; to harmonise digital service providers (dsps); and to establish a strategic coordination cooperation group called the computer security incident response team (csirt). i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the digital age, it is vital that networks are protected against cyber threats. cybersecurity mechanisms should be in place both to prevent breaches and to ensure a rapid response if attacks occur. this will help give individuals and businesses the protection they need to operate online.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the security of network and information systems in the union addresses the issue of cybersecurity for the first time at european level. the aim of the directive is to ensure a high level of safety and to strengthen cooperation between member states and the european institutions in this field, overcoming the current fragmentation, and bringing benefits to citizens, consumers and businesses. the various operators of essential services in important sectors of society, as well as the providers of essential digital services, will have to take appropriate security measures and report any incidents to the national authorities. i am glad to note that the negotiations between parliament and the council have been able to overcome the resistance of many member states which, as often happens, have shown little inclination to give up their powers and prerogatives in the field of national security and have been resistant to sharing information, for the prevention of cyber attacks, with colleagues from other states and with the european institutions. this directive will now create a secure legislative framework, which will allow for real and effective cooperation based on common rules, standards and mechanisms. for all these reasons i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the new directive lays down new rules both as regards the levels of cybersecurity for strategic infrastructures (such as power stations and airports) and the obligations on member states as regards coordination activities and responses to cyber threats. i hope that this agreement will strengthen the exchange of information between the member states and ensure greater cybersecurity throughout the european union. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the energy efficiency label for household appliances, which has been in place for at least 20 years, aims to inform consumers about the key product characteristics, energy efficiency and absolute consumption. in the light of the recent car emissions scandals, restoring public confidence is of paramount importance. to this end, it was proposed to develop a database of existing products, which would allow citizens to easily obtain all the information they want, thanks to immediate access with the qr code. in short, it is a question of equating the electronic format with the paper format, thus allowing the citizen to be fully informed about the qualities of the product. for all the reasons mentioned above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent cop 21 in paris strongly demonstrated the need to put environmental policies at the centre of global action. in this context, attention to energy efficiency labelling legislation is crucial to facilitate understanding of the impact of appliances on the ecosystem. the tamburrano report, which i supported with my vote today, is a key element in this direction. after years of confusion due to the introduction of unclear labelling systems, the new proposal introduces a simple and updated system with a scale of classes a to g. the requirements are expected to be in place for about 10 years, and any subsequent re-labelling will only be initiated when 25% of products sold on the eu market fall into class a, or when 50% of products fall into classes a and b. the labels should contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and the absolute energy consumption in kwh, expressed per year or per relevant time period.
in writing. ‒ the report analysing energy efficiency labelling is well thought out and worthy of support, so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the european parliament has finally approved the updated energy labelling legislation for household appliances, a small but important tool to support our efforts to achieve greater energy efficiency and better use of resources. as a shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, i have followed the legislative process on this matter with great conviction from the outset and i am proud to say that the text voted on today, which is much more timely and balanced than the commission's initial proposal, is largely the result of the work i have carried out in recent months in the committee on the environment and subsequently in the committee on industry. the new regulation, and the simplification work it provides for, by returning to a single a-g scale for all product groups and providing for clear and predictable mechanisms for the future updating of labels, will restore the energy label to its two main functions: to effectively guide consumers towards the choice of products that can guarantee the greatest energy savings and to encourage industry to produce ever more innovative and efficient products, to the mutual benefit of the environment and our bills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr tamburrano's legislative report because it perfectly balances the needs of all the players in the sector and at the same time makes the labelling of energy efficiency clearer. the legislative instrument has been strengthened and modernised, and i am thinking of the existing product database, which can be used by anyone via a qr code or with reference to smart appliances. the report clearly aims to strengthen the confidence of european citizens through greater transparency, by automatically removing the pluses from labels (and therefore the a+, a++ and a+++ classes) and pushing towards a digitised energy label 2.0. a very solid foundation has been laid to revive the success of energy labelling which has allowed the introduction of increasingly efficient models in a few years, thus saving enormous amounts of energy, emissions and money. i hope that this solid basis, and therefore the will of the european parliament, will facilitate excellent negotiations with the other european institutions in the trilogue phase.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the agreements reached in parliament on the main points of the regulation in question. this vote gives the negotiators the mandate to seek, on behalf of the european parliament, a first reading agreement in the trilogue. the revision of the energy labelling directive is one of the most important areas of regulatory intervention for achieving the binding target of a 27% improvement in energy efficiency by 2030. the presence of increasingly energy-efficient products on the market is an indication of the success of the legislation, but it also means that its effectiveness is reaching its limits. i have agreed with the commission's proposal for updating the label and rescaling the energy efficiency classes, which will be an incentive for technological innovation, while the creation of a database of regulated products will be useful both to the regulatory authorities, who will thus have much faster access to information, and to those bodies which will later need updated data for regulatory review. the new regulation will introduce more consistent and simplified obligations for member states, suppliers and distributors.
in writing. ‒ the energy efficiency label for household appliances is intended to inform consumers about energy efficiency, absolute consumption and other key product characteristics. however, in recent years the information capacity of the label has become less clear due to the introduction of different scales and the introduction of classes with "+", "++", "+++". the 5 star movement's rapporteur has sought to decisively boost the confidence of european citizens after the automotive scandals that threaten the credibility of any eu regulatory effort. it heard the voices of consumers, industry, smes, supervisory authorities, traders, standardisation bodies, ngos, citizens who are members of the five star movement. the legislative report which has resulted from this major work aims to renew the label, considerably increasing its effectiveness and also taking advantage of the advances in information technology to this end. i voted in favour without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling' because i believe that labelling can help citizens to better understand the impact of products on the environment and on their lives and can facilitate access to information by strengthening their capacity to follow market developments in real time.
in writing. ‒ an energy labelling system is already in place. however, in my view it is still not doing its job properly because it is very confusing to the consumer. i am convinced that a regulation such as this can really lay the foundations for the creation of a comprehensible and transparent system whereby citizens can be able to make cost-effective and environmentally friendly purchasing decisions. there are too many products in the higher energy class and i think this leads to consumers giving little weight to energy labelling. i am therefore in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i am convinced that it has the potential to make the system understandable and useful in the purchasing decision.
in writing. ‒ with this report, the european union is committed to building an energy union based on a forward-looking policy, removing anything that confuses and misleads citizens when they buy. it is a great victory for the five star movement, the regulation does not need to be transposed by individual states, it will have a rapid impact on the lives of 500 million european citizens. among the most important points of the regulation are that the paper label will be supplemented by a virtual one in a public database, additional information on each model will be accessible through a qr code, the evaluation standards will be public and transparent and a refund will be provided to buyers in the event of non-compliance of the energy label. the m5s has succeeded in bringing forward a very innovative concept, it is a very important moment, with the new regulation we will start to look at energy efficiency in qualitative terms, emphasising where, when and how energy will be consumed. all of this allows us to project ourselves towards a new, more sustainable energy model, through informed consumer choice and greater awareness by society as a whole. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the energy label has become familiar to citizens and consumers. the identity card that enables us, in a quick and immediate way, to be aware and informed and to choose to contribute to energy saving, to reducing emissions, to protecting the environment and to reducing europe's dependence on energy sources. this process is estimated to save 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent by 2020. a positive innovation which, over the years, has been complicated by the overlapping of the acronyms, losing efficiency. in particular, the proliferation of "+" has ended up confusing consumers, making the difference between the consumption classes less clear. the revision of the directive and further simplification of the energy classes has therefore become an essential step to avoid the risk of losing the positive effect. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all types of vehicles. we have a tool that has been proven to work, and it's up to us to bring it up to date, removing the adherences that could affect the results.
in writing. ‒ a major report, signed by m5s, which deeply innovates the regulatory framework for the energy efficiency labelling system, giving birth to the new 'label 2.0'. the energy efficiency label for household appliances has been around for some 20 years and has undoubtedly been a great mechanism to enable consumers to choose products that consume less energy and save money, as well as to encourage businesses to develop innovative solutions and invest in the design of more efficient products. however, in recent years the label has lost its informative capacity and clarity, mainly due to the introduction of different scales and subclasses "+", "++", "+++". the labelling system needed to be updated to take account of technological changes. the creation of a database is therefore proposed, which will enable citizens to interact with a digital label, parallel to the paper label but rich in additional information and functions. the inclusion of a qr code on the label, which will be the gateway to the database; and the identification of smart appliances, which can play a vital role in balancing the electricity grid and further saving citizens. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has played a key role in improving product quality and efficiency, with clear positive effects on the environment and consumers. the existing legislation, however, required action to increase the effectiveness of labels, going beyond the limits of existing legislation and also taking advantage of the advances in information technology. the rapporteur has done a good job, starting from the eu commission's proposal, and deserves our appreciation and support.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of this report because i believe that energy labelling has major environmental benefits, as it allows consumers to compare the energy efficiency of products. however, the energy labelling system currently in force has several areas of shadow and has lost some of its relevance. there is an over-representation of products in the higher energy efficiency classes on the market, which clearly confuses consumers. it follows that market surveillance in the member states could be improved by providing for a clearer and simpler system for labelling and product information management.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as i support the need to update energy efficiency labelling to take account of technological and market developments.
in writing. ‒ this report plays an important part in improving existing labelling on products in terms of energy use. this is an important aspect in order to increase energy efficiency in the eu by giving producers more incentives to decrease the energy usage of their products as it will be clearer to the consumer how much energy a product is using. using the consumer’s market and giving the consumers all the necessary information in regard to energy usage and then letting the private sector adapt to this market is, i believe, the most effective way to promote energy efficiency in consumer goods and plays an important part for europe to achieve its emission goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu, because i believe that energy efficiency labelling is a tool that is consistent with the eu's efforts to combat climate change and pollution, and at the same time very useful for our citizens and consumers, who can base their purchasing choices on the energy profile of the product. i agree with the commission's initial proposal that the existing system should be changed to make it clearer and more comprehensible and to avoid misleading information for consumers, given the large number of everyday products in the higher efficiency classes. i agree with the proposal to move towards a rescaling model which links products on the market in classes taking account of technological progress and i am in favour of the establishment of the product database, as it will increase transparency for consumers. finally, i consider parliament's position to be a balanced proposal that draws on the lessons of directive 2010/30/eu, and i hope that this approach can be maintained in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. the european institutions are working to improve energy efficiency labelling, with the aim of regaining the trust of citizens, also following some scandals. the creation of labels, which allow electronic products to be classified according to their environmental impact and life cycle, has enabled european citizens to make informed and responsible choices. in order to improve this system and thus to improve its environmental impact, an evaluation of the labelling framework is proposed to highlight its shortcomings and to increase energy savings. the report also aims to strike a balance between the different areas and to promote the integration of regulations at european level. looking towards a more sustainable future, i am voting in favour of the proposal to re-evaluate the energy efficiency labelling framework.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu. the commission proposal aims to establish a regulation as a legal instrument for energy labelling which, if properly implemented, can have a positive impact on the environment, consumers, businesses and workers, ensuring greater transparency for consumers in relation to energy-related products on the union market. energy labelling helps citizens to better understand the environmental impact of products by allowing consumers to compare the energy efficiency of products and make cost-effective purchasing decisions.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency labelling encourages companies to improve their products and access to information by offering consumers better product efficiency. this enables consumers to make informed decisions and to choose products that reduce costs and reduce environmental impact.
in writing. ‒ the revision of labelling has become necessary especially after the recent cases concerning car emissions; the label is a necessary tool for consumers to better understand the environmental impact of a product. i welcome the proposals contained in the document before us and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the energy efficiency label for household appliances has been in existence for some 20 years to enable consumers to choose products that consume less energy and save money, and to encourage businesses to develop innovative solutions and invest in the design of more efficient products. however, in recent years the label has lost its informative capacity and clarity, mainly due to the introduction of different scales and subclasses "+", "++", "+++". i have worked on the opinion of the environment committee on this and asked for information on actual energy consumption, absolute energy consumption and other information on environmental impact such as durability, repairability and recyclability of products. i also believe that the timing of the rescaling should be decided on the basis of technological progress and documented by the overpopulation of the upper classes and that the work plan of this regulation on energy efficiency labelling should be coordinated with the work plan of the directive on ecological compatibility. i therefore support the report, which takes due account of the progress made in information technology and proposes a renewal of the label to make it more effective, clearer and more transparent.
in writing. ‒ technology has made and is making rapid progress in energy saving in recent years. i therefore voted in favour of this new regulation which repeals the old 2010 directive and modernises the legislation to take account of the new standards produced by the energy industry today. energy efficiency labelling is a key component for the consumer, who can make an environmentally conscious choice through this tool. i agree first of all with the choice to adopt a regulation, which is directly applicable in all the member states, in order to ensure a real harmonization of labelling, first of all in order to ensure the circulation of goods throughout the single market and to avoid disparities which are harmful to the market itself. the new single a-g labelling will not only help consumers to make savings choices but will also encourage the industries themselves to produce products that are increasingly efficient, appealing and at the same time environmentally sustainable.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling has a positive impact on the environment by providing consumers with accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of energy-related products wherever they are in the union, enabling them to make informed, cost-efficient and environmentally sound purchasing decisions, with benefits for both the environment and their pockets. the proposal maintains the objectives and principles of the existing energy labelling directive, but clarifies, strengthens and extends its scope as follows, updating the label and allowing for 'upgrading' energy efficiency classes: improving enforcement; establishing a database of products covered by energy labelling legislation; clarifying the obligations of the various parties, improving the link between energy labelling and measurement standards. i believe that european legislation that raises citizens' awareness is the key to achieving some of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the text on energy efficiency labelling repeals the current directive in this area, with the aim of simplifying the rules. more specifically, the report provides for the simplification of energy classes, thus returning to the old classification from a to g, eliminating classes a+, a++ and a+++. the new european labelling will contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and the energy consumption in kwh, so that consumers are better informed about the product they intend to buy. the added value of the new labelling is right there: to make it easier for consumers to find energy-efficient products. the benefits will also be for producers, who will be able to rely on clearer and simpler procedures. in short, the report proposes the creation of a stronger, clearer and more forward-looking labelling system, which is why i voted in favour of the text. however, in line with the ppe group, i am sceptical about the proposal to establish an eu database of household appliances. not only would such a project be extremely costly, but the dissemination of sensitive information would harm the producers themselves, who are threatened with being out-sourced by their competitors.
in writing. ‒ energy labelling is a useful tool for environmental protection, as it allows consumers to compare the energy efficiency of products and to make more informed purchasing decisions. the new regulation aims to introduce a mechanism for the reformulation of energy efficiency classes and also provides for both the creation of a product database and the definition of the obligations that economic operators will have to comply with. i have decided to vote in favour of this regulation because this labelling system will be a new means of information which will be more transparent and clearer for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new energy labelling regulation, which introduces a new energy class scale for measuring the efficiency of household appliances. technological progress has made it possible in recent years to manufacture increasingly efficient products and has led to the need to introduce new energy efficiency classes compared to the classification introduced by the previous legislation. the approved text reflects this progress by simplifying the labelling system, returning to the old a to g classification and eliminating the a+, a++ and a+++ classes that have been added over time because most devices on the market complied with the requirements of class a as established in 2010. while industry needs to move in line with technological progress towards greener production, the text also provides for a gradual introduction of new 'scale-up' labels depending on existing product groups, to enable industry to adapt to the new labelling system, a key element of the eu's strategy to achieve energy efficiency targets.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report, which i drafted, which is a major innovation in the regulatory framework for the energy efficiency labelling system, giving birth to the new 'label 2.0'. we recognise that the european energy efficiency labels for energy-using equipment have been a real success story for the eu for 20 years now. their effectiveness, however, has waned over time, mainly due to the proliferation of different scales and the introduction of a+/a++/a+++ classes. we believe that the proposed measures can not only bring the label back to its glorious tradition, with the gradual restoration of the a-g scale, but also adapt it to the technological changes that have occurred, transforming it into the new 'label 2.0'. we have promoted in particular: the creation of a database, which will allow citizens to interact with a digital label, parallel to the paper label but rich in additional information and functions; the inclusion of a qr code on the label, which will be the gateway to the database; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we will work hard to ensure that these measures, which we have proposed and which have been approved by the plenary, are incorporated into the text of the regulation after negotiations with the council of the union.
in writing. ‒ mr tamburrano's report is the result of good cooperation between the itre and envi committees and between the institutions. technological progress and the ability of many companies to innovate have necessitated a revision of energy labelling which was proving unclear to both consumers and businesses. for this reason, i strongly advocated the need for a rescaling from a to g. it is essential that industry keeps pace with technological progress by setting stricter requirements and that consumers can also make informed choices to save energy (including through the use of smart applications) and at the same time help protect the environment. the final text adopted, which will be the subject of negotiations with the other institutions, lays down objective criteria for the periodic updating of labels in line with technological developments in each product group and with market trends without imposing additional costs on undertakings and providing greater security for consumers.
in writing. energy efficiency labels for energy-consuming appliances such as refrigerators and washing machines have been in place in the eu for 20 years. together with ecodesign, they will save energy, estimated by the european commission at 175 mega tons of oil by 2020: this is roughly the amount of energy consumed in one year by italy. however, the effectiveness of labels has weakened over time, mainly due to the proliferation of different scales. the new european regulation, which i voted for, provides for the re-establishment of the a-g scale in three stages, starting with the removal within 21 months of the '+'s which now appear on the labels of refrigerators, washing machines, dishwashers, dryers and televisions. the real novelty of this regulation, which is the result of the work of the five star movement, is that it will enable citizens to consult a digital label, which is similar to the paper label but which is full of additional information and functions. the european commission estimates that 10-25% of energy labels now do not reflect the actual characteristics of equipment. so to protect consumers we have made provision for manufacturers to be fully responsible for what is indicated on the label, and retailers for the correct and timely exposure to buyers. consumers will be able to obtain a refund in the event of a bad label.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because the frontiers of europe must be guarded by european guards. the commission has already taken the initiative in this respect, and i hope that the commission will take it up again in the near future. we tried in so many ways. first mare nostrum in italy, then triton, then the hot spots. finally, something is moving in europe. the european border and coast guard agency is marking the overcoming of frontex and its many limitations, with the desired increase in manpower and resources. first of all, it is clear to us in the mandate that there is a duty to search and rescue, because we have been collecting the bodies of thousands of desperate people at sea for too long, and then it can provide practical help to states in difficulty, because operations at sea require men, means and technology: 1,500 operators are standing by. let's try this.
in writing. ‒ in order to respond adequately to the serious migration crisis facing europe, the eu has put forward new proposals for action. the old frontex agency, now renamed the european border and coast guard agency, is given new powers, which are instrumental to integrated border management to prevent crisis situations. the amendments, however, reflect a strategy which seriously undermines the sovereignty of the member states, which are almost deprived of their powers of control and subject to a series of sanctions if the recommendations are not implemented. the excessive powers granted to this agency have led me to vote against it, believing that all actions which have consequences for the territory of a state or its population must be subject to its prior decision.
in writing. ‒ the emergence of an unprecedented migratory phenomenon has put the union and its member states in a serious predicament. the lack of common responses has in a short time sharpened the existing divisions, leading to the development of national solutions which have generated in many countries not only a dangerous restoration of internal controls, but also undermined the schengen treaty and the very ideal principles which underlie the european union. the pabriks report, which i supported, takes up and improves the commission's proposal to establish a european border and coast guard as the first common response to the migration crisis, replacing frontex and the national authorities of the member states responsible for border management. the new agency, which will be accountable to the european parliament and the council, will have a rapid reaction pool of 1,500 border guards appointed by the member states and equipped with the necessary equipment for timely intervention. should a member state be faced with disproportionate migratory pressure or a high level of cross-border crime, the member state or the council could decide to deploy the team.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the european border and coast guard represents a further transfer of sovereignty by the member states to the eu over a key competence in each state: control of its borders. the commission proposal for a regulation contained in this report seems to change everything, but it does not change anything. replacing the failing european agency frontex with another, the coast guard, will not stop the arrival of migrant boats on italian shores, but will serve to take away control of our territory and our seas. for these reasons i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the instruments developed for the functioning of the schengen area and the control of its external borders are too weak in the face of the scale of the migration crisis and recent terrorist threats. in the present context, a solution must be found to address the identified shortcomings by encouraging solidarity between member states and strengthening their cooperation. the mandate of frontex, which has already been reviewed twice since its entry into force in 2005, needs to be strengthened in its powers, as parliament has repeatedly called for. in response, the european commission has proposed an ambitious plan that includes the prior assessment of external border vulnerabilities, the use of liaison officers with member states, the potential deployment of 1,500 border guards for emergency purposes, with a clearer role for the agency in return and rescue operations, increased cooperation with third countries and the launch of genuine integrated european cooperation on coast guard functions. of course, this must be translated into rapid action and realistic intervention procedures, ensuring the necessary equipment for the agency, the establishment of common standards on border management and the creation of a system that is flexible to the needs. i therefore support the report by my colleague.
in writing. ‒ between february and november 2015 alone, around 1.5 million people crossed the eu's external borders irregularly. in this emergency situation, as many as ten member states have reintroduced border controls, but in doing so they have undermined the fundamental principle of the free movement of persons. in this context, i believe that the commission's proposal to establish a european border and coast guard can effectively contribute to increasing the level of security within the schengen area, while safeguarding the fundamental right to free movement. only by working together at supranational level can we effectively deal more successfully with complex transnational phenomena such as the sharp increase in migration flows. however, in order to make this new system fully effective, it is necessary to ensure that it is equipped with the necessary human, material and financial resources: in this context, given the scale of the phenomenon we are facing, i believe that the appropriation provided should be increased, which would currently amount to eur 31.5 million according to preliminary estimates: this is too low a figure to adequately address a very complex challenge.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report in order to ensure adequate control of the external schengen borders, as an essential condition for effectively managing migration, ensuring a high level of internal security and at the same time safeguarding the free movement of persons within the union. the crisis has highlighted shortcomings and gaps in the mechanisms used so far for the integrated management of the external borders and the implementation of common rules. it is therefore time to move to a truly integrated border management system. the european border and coast guard should bring together both a new european border and coast guard agency set up by frontex with expanded tasks and member state authorities who will continue to deal with the day-to-day activities of border management. frontex was limited to supporting member states in managing their external borders. the new european border and coast guard agency needs to do more. the measures adopted today strengthen the management of our external borders, by providing for the speedy return of irregular migrants, the proper functioning of the asylum system for those in need and the reinforcement of controls at the external borders of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european border and coast guard has a number of problematic aspects. these include excessive interference with the sovereignty of member states and a lack of identification of new legal pathways or humanitarian corridors to enable those who are entitled to do so to arrive safely on eu territory. in the light of these considerations i voted against the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ today the eu is making history: finally, europe will have a coast and border guard which, from september, will deal with an emergency, such as that linked to the flows of migrants, which is global. the new structure, which will include frontex, will include 1,500 people, 125 of whom are from italy. today's vote in the european parliament, pending the final decision by the european council, shows us that when we do not give in to national selfishness but look to the interests of europe, we achieve positive results. the measures will also be agreed with the national authorities, and this will make it possible to defend the schengen system, in which we firmly believe and which is one of the fundamental pillars on which europe is built. finally, the eu border and coast guard is a particularly important instrument in the fight against terrorism, which, as we have seen, increasingly requires greater information sharing and coordination between the security institutions.
in writing. ‒ the maintenance of the schengen area requires the adoption of a common policy for the effective and secure management of external borders. this issue has become even more pressing after some member states involved in the western balkans migration route reintroduced internal border controls, thus leading to an increase in flows along the central mediterranean route. and in this sense, the creation of a european coast and border guard is a step in the right direction. it will have 1500 staff, who will not be employees of the agency but made available by member states to support those countries facing pressure at their borders or a massive influx of migrants on their coasts. the planned coordination with other eu agencies will also help to identify crossborder crime activities, excluding investigations, which are outside the remit of the task. i am pleased that parliament has been able to reach agreement in a short time on the text to be negotiated with the council and i also hope that a consensus will soon be reached to make the new agency operational soon to help those states most exposed to migratory flows. for these reasons i voted in favour of the agreement reached.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard, as i believe that the establishment of a european border and coast guard responds to the need to adequately control the schengen borders, ensuring a high level of internal security. the establishment of the european border and coast guard will also increase solidarity between member states, enhance integration for border management and help prevent crisis situations at the external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, but i am not at all happy with it. i would have liked to have voted in favour for higher reasons, such as keeping the schengen system in place and looking to the future of the eu as a space where citizens can move freely from country to country without borders and without borders. in fact, the only reason i voted in favour of it was to help those unfortunate countries which, simply because of their position, are the ones most likely to have to bear the enormous burden of the migrant problem. and, incidentally, the tax man would call this regressive spending, since it's more for those with less. it is time for the eu to step in and put things right and take back control, and i hope that the response will be effective.
in writing. - from words to deeds. finally, on the migration front, the european union, thanks in particular to the timely requests of the european parliament and the group of the european people's party, has in a few months started what has been long overdue: targeted and timely monitoring of the seas in order to monitor and deter - where possible - the influx of refugees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal frontiers are not blocked by the threat of a nuclear war. not only that: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new european border and coast guard agency, which will be operational from september, will bring together the former frontex structure and national border management authorities. this is the europe we want, a europe that is practical and operational, which does not leave the most vulnerable countries alone in facing one of the most complex and dramatic phenomena of recent years.
in writing. ‒ increasing migratory flows require a responsible and coordinated management of the eu's external borders, allowing asylum seekers to enter while controlling criminal trafficking. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the new regulation proposed by the european parliament and the council takes account of the need for integrated european management of the external borders through the european border and coast guard agency. this agency will define a common european strategy, both in its technical and operational part, for border management, without neglecting any specificities of the member states. while the primary responsibility for the management of external borders remains with the individual states, the agency, together with the national authorities and coastguards responsible for border management, will play a key role in coordinating state interventions for the full implementation of the measures established within the eu and in contributing to the exchange of good practice on the uniform application of european legislation. in particular, i believe that the obligation to exchange information laid down in article 9 of the regulation is a necessary measure to ensure effective shared border management.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament is taking a step forward towards the creation of the new european border and coast guard; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external borders and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external borders. the new rules adopted, which came into force in september, redesign frontex's structure, mandate and powers, provide for the establishment of a monitoring and risk analysis centre and provide for the establishment of a rapid reaction team capable of supporting member states in case of difficulties. a series of measures that have been strengthened thanks to the contribution of the socialists and democrats, who among other things have promoted a specific mandate for the european coast guard to support the search and rescue of migrants, also ensuring the essential health care. this should only be seen as the starting point for the implementation of much broader and more integrated community migration policies: the european union is also committed to the development of a common asylum system. we must act quickly, before the migration crisis continues to be exploited to give voice, in an instrumental way, to the populists who want the disintegration of europe.
in writing. ‒ the challenges facing the eu today, and in particular the refugee challenge, require a stronger commitment from all member states, while respecting the essential application of the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european border and coast guard has a number of problematic aspects. these include excessive interference with the sovereignty of member states and a lack of identification of new legal pathways or humanitarian corridors to enable those who are entitled to do so to arrive safely on eu territory. i therefore voted against the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ as a follow-up to the eu's failed migration policies, the frontex agency would like to be given more power to defend fortress europe and the schengen area. the main criticism of the proposal is that it interferes too much with the sovereignty of the member states. the new agency will play an active role in the management of the external borders and if the member state does not implement the agency's recommendations, the agency will have the possibility of intervening and will not be excluded the possibility of reintroducing border controls with the state that does not comply, with the risk that the latter becomes a large refugee camp. the risk is clearly greater for countries most exposed to flows, including italy. we consider these powers to be excessive and we want intervention on the territory of a member state to be always subject to its prior approval and/or explicit request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard. under the new rules, national authorities will continue to deal with day-to-day management activities, but if faced with a crisis situation, they will be able to call on the new european border and coast guard agency, which will be able to deploy response teams quickly. protecting our borders is vital and stopping ships is necessary to stop the deaths.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which does not take account of the needs of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this is a key report for the eu and a key decision for us to make. we have seen during the refugee crisis that we can only secure the integrity of the internal movements within the schengen area if we have safe and secure external borders. the creation of a european border and coast guard will be a key aspect in achieving this; it will allow the eu to react to extraordinary pressure on individual member states with a response force and with technical and material assistance.
in writing. ‒ we have adopted at first reading a very relevant text for the management of the migration emergency: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states (frontex) was adopted on 14 december. today's vote gives the green light to mechanisms that strengthen coordination between national border management authorities and create a rapid reaction pool of 1500 border guards for particularly urgent situations. i believe that these are important innovations with a high operational capacity, which can make an important initial contribution to the prevention of humanitarian emergencies at our borders. the political signal we are sending with today's vote is that only with ever closer coordination between the states will europe be able to meet such a major challenge as we have been facing in recent years. solidarity at home and abroad must be the guiding principle of a fair and far-sighted eu migration policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec, because i believe that the agreement reached with the council on the establishment of the european border guard is an important step towards an finally 'european' approach to the migration issue. the agency which will replace frontex will be staffed by staff from the member states, which will allow for better management of the eu's external borders, a key political requirement for safeguarding the absence of internal borders in the eu and the free movement of citizens. i strongly supported the s&d group's action to extend the agency's objectives, in this case also to search and rescue operations at sea as requested by italy, while maintaining a predominantly humanitarian profile also in the management of asylum applications and returns, which will have to take place on the basis of an individual decision. i believe it is essential to combine human rights and security, respect for persons and protection of human life, and to provide security for all, both for refugees and for those working in reception and for the general public.
in writing. the current threats of terrorism and the migration crisis have called into question the effectiveness of the instruments that remove borders and regulate freedom of movement within the union. in an attempt to address these challenges and find sustainable solutions, the commission proposes that a border and coast guard be established to ensure adequate control of external borders, strengthen security, and at the same time preserve the freedom of movement of european citizens. the new coast guard, composed of the european border and coast guard agency and national authorities, will replace frontex with the aim of promoting integrated and efficient management of the external borders, increasing solidarity between member states and strengthening integration to tackle current challenges. for the first time, we will see a real joint effort, in which european states will provide border guards for the training of the european agency, bringing the total to 1,500 officials. this is a political success, which has been achieved in just five months since the ec proposal. the safety of our citizens is our priority, but we do not want to restrict their freedom at the same time. i therefore welcome the proposal and call for its rapid implementation.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu. this regulation establishes a european border and coast guard in order to address the migratory challenges and to ensure a high level of internal security. the proposal will also make it possible to strengthen border management and help prevent crisis situations at the external borders.
in writing. ‒ today, thanks also and above all to the contribution of our political group, the eu border and coast guard agency, the european border and coast guard, is born, with a staff of 1,500. in short, europe has taken a first fundamental step towards an integrated and truly community-wide management of the phenomenon and flows of immigration. we have shown that with the commitment and responsible contribution of all, europe can meet any challenge and give concrete responses in a reasonable time.
in writing. ‒ given the need to increase solidarity between member states, strengthen integration for border management and help prevent crisis situations at the external borders of the union, i welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european border and coast guard, which provides for a complete revision of the mandate of frontex through a significant strengthening of its competences. the proposal responds to the need to ensure adequate control of the schengen external borders, as an essential condition for effectively managing the union's main challenges. it is therefore appropriate to extend the tasks of frontex and, to take account of those changes, to rename it the european border and coast guard agency. the main role of the european border and coast guard agency should be to define an operational and technical strategy for the implementation of integrated border management at union level, to verify the effective functioning of external border control, to provide increased operational and technical assistance to member states through joint operations and rapid border interventions and to ensure the practical execution of measures in situations requiring urgent action at the external borders, as well as to organise, coordinate and carry out return operations and interventions.
in writing. ‒ given the scale of the current migration crisis, which has led eight schengen countries to re-establish some form of border control for reasons of public policy, i believe that new instruments must be prepared to give a firm response to the problem while not affecting the rights acquired so far. the proposal to set up a european border and coast guard arises from the need to ensure effective control of the external schengen borders, so i consider its creation urgent and, in view of what is stated in the document, i feel i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent migration and refugee crisis, together with the threats posed by international terrorism, are putting the principle of free movement within the schengen area to the test. the absence of internal border controls, widely regarded as one of the most important achievements of european integration, is now being called into question on grounds of public policy and internal security. at the same time, countries on the mediterranean coast (greece and italy in particular) are left to cope with the burden of the emergency. the short-sighted retreat of many member states in defence of their national interests and borders not only betrays the spirit of solidarity on which the unity of our continent was built, but also prevents us from becoming aware that only by working together will it be possible to overcome the crisis. in this context, the initiative to create a european border and coast guard is therefore the best response that europe can give. affirming the need for all member states to contribute to the control of the external borders of schengen, ensuring common and effective management of immigration, a high level of internal security and thus safeguarding, at the same time, the free movement of persons within the union. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing an exceptional migration phenomenon. the european union must therefore respond with equally exceptional force. in order to guarantee a common area of free movement without internal frontiers, it is necessary to ensure the comprehensive control of external frontiers. the future european border and coast guard system will not be a leap in the dark. it will build on the experience gained by frontex and for the first time it will be possible to deploy european return intervention teams, composed of escort and surveillance staff, who will work with the objective of returning third-country nationals. the european parliament has worked to achieve a greater burden-sharing in the management of the external borders and, thanks also to the work of the italian delegation in the epp, everyone seems to have understood the need to develop a common coast guard. only if all the member states of the union make available economic, human and technical resources will it be possible to combine the highest level of solidarity with the highest level of security. the establishment of a common coast guard will mean, above all, that we will not leave those countries which, like italy, greece and malta, have borne the brunt of an uncontrolled flow of migrants. i voted unanimously in favour of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the establishment of a new european border and coast guard agency. this agency will replace frontex, a body that has become well known because of the migration crisis and the key, but too often insufficient, role that this actor has played in border control and management. the new system will provide for greater centralisation and even closer cooperation between the eu and the member states, with the new agency being called upon to intervene if a state is in an emergency situation. i am very pleased with the text presented, because it is a very concrete response to the limitations of frontex, and it brings solutions which i believe are effective. unlike the current body in charge of border control, the european coast guard will have its own resources - €280 million budget for each year from 2016 - autonomous operational staff as well as greater decision-making powers on returns. as a member of the european parliament and an italian citizen, i can only support the proposals contained in the text, for which i voted in favour. schengen is saved by strengthening the external borders, not by closing the internal ones, and the creation of the european coast guard goes in exactly this direction.
in writing. ‒ the new european coastguard agency, which will replace the current frontex, is born out of the need to ensure adequate control of the maritime borders of the schengen area. under the new rules, national authorities will continue to deal with day-to-day management activities but, if faced with a crisis situation, they will be able to call on the new agency, which will be able to deploy response teams quickly. this is an important first step in trying to ensure adequate border control and facilitate the return of migrants to their country of origin. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this new regulation.
in writing. ‒ the proper functioning of the eu area of freedom, security and justice requires that the free movement of persons be accompanied by integrated border management at european level: the latter is necessary to monitor effectively the crossing of external borders, to address migratory challenges, to safeguard the functioning of the schengen area and to respect fundamental rights and the principle of solidarity. this is why i wanted to express my support for the creation of the european border and coast guard agency, which will bring together the frontex agency and the various national authorities in a body with shared responsibility between the eu and the member states, to define an operational and technical strategy for the implementation of integrated border management at eu level. in particular, the new european body will be able to intervene in the event that national authorities are confronted with a critical situation (such as sudden migratory flows or serious cross-border crime), by rapidly sending intervention teams, at the request of the member state or on the basis of a council decision where the situation is such as to jeopardise the functioning of the schengen area. it is also essential that the agency assists member states in search and rescue operations to save lives when necessary and does not deal directly with returns.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of this agency is a first step towards a common management of migration. the european border and coast guard agency regulation will help member states to ensure more effective management of the eu's external borders. this is an important point in helping to resolve the refugee and migration crisis that europe is facing.
in writing. ‒ what we are doing today is a major step forward; we are giving the european citizens a sign of hope after the sad period of the last few days. europe lives and moves forward if it moves towards a common management of problems, especially as regards the security of the external borders. the european coast guard and border guard, then, we must now proceed with concrete steps also in the joint management of all the other important issues.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa), with the aim of ensuring high levels of safety, represents the european response to the serious and persistent migration crisis. the text proposed was intended to extend the range of functions of emsa by giving it new tasks such as: exchange of information and cooperation with coastguards; provision of surveillance services; development of recommendations. in my view, the best strategy for supporting the states most affected by the migration crisis, in line with the principles of european solidarity, is to encourage the use of joint operations, as well as programmes based on interoperability. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cramer report on the european maritime safety agency. this is a proposal which aims to increase cooperation at european level in the field of coast guard functions through the development of cross-sectoral cooperation. the european maritime safety agency, the community fisheries control agency and the future european border and coast guard agency will be involved in this context. the new synergy will ensure more efficient services and will enable the three european agencies already responsible for responding to disasters at sea to coordinate their operations at sea and share information useful for their actions.
in writing. ‒ the cramer report aims to amend the regulation governing the functions of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in order to improve the exchange of information and cooperation between the authorities of each eu country. although the text is fairly balanced, especially since it does not affect the division of powers between the eu and the member states, i decided to abstain from voting because of some proposals put forward by other political groups which i do not share and do not intend to support.
in writing. ‒ there are currently over 300 national authorities (collaborating through 70 different structures) within the european union performing coast guard functions and responsible for activities such as maritime security, rescue at sea, customs and border controls, as well as environmental protection. it is a complex system which, precisely because of its structure, favours delays and gaps, not least because of the lack of clarity with regard to mutual competences, the lack of effective collaboration and planning, and the lack of adequate resources. in an attempt to address this problem, the proposal for a regulation aims to enable the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european coast and border guard agency to share more easily and effectively the information and resources available to them, in order to better ensure safety of navigation and maritime security in european waters. this is all the more essential in the wider context of a substantial increase in migration flows to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to ensure that the european maritime safety agency can work more closely with both the european fisheries control agency and the new european border and coast guard agency, and with national authorities. the existing cooperation system is lacking, in particular due to the lack of information on the competences, powers and capacities of the various authorities and agencies responsible for responding to disasters at sea, the limited number of operational resources, the lack of interoperability between systems and resources and the shortcomings in terms of joint planning and operations. the proposal, which was approved by a large majority, will enable the three agencies to provide support to national authorities and to conduct joint control, safety and surveillance operations effectively, providing national authorities with information, equipment and training and ensuring the necessary coordination of multidimensional operations.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to amend the emsa regulation, as part of the european proposal for a new frontex, as the eu's response to the current migration situation. in particular, new tasks are to be assigned to emsa, in line with the new tasks envisaged for the border and coast guard agency. these include important issues such as the sharing, merging and analysis of data and information available in ship reporting systems; the provision of advanced technology-based surveillance and communication services (satellite and drone); the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices, including through training and exchange of staff; sharing of capabilities for planning and implementing cross-functional operations and sharing of resources at cross-sectoral and cross-border level. although i am against the new frontex proposal, i believe that technical measures for monitoring the coast are necessary and important. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency' because i believe that the maritime safety agency can support national authorities carrying out coast guard functions at national and european level. it may also work in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency to improve prevention and response actions to potential maritime risks.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal which sets the objective of establishing a new maritime safety agency. at the same time, member states are finding it increasingly difficult to control their borders because of the high flow of migration, which also leads to gaps in maritime security. i am convinced that this new agency can help the countries most affected by this phenomenon to have greater control of their borders. this will be done by working with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency and supporting national authorities carrying out coast guard functions at national level by sharing information obtained from each agency, assisting individual surveillance and communication services in countries that need it and developing new capabilities and best practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on the european maritime safety agency which, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, supports national authorities carrying out coast guard functions at national, union and international level. the european maritime safety agency is a useful tool because it aims to ensure maritime safety and prevent environmental damage by sharing information obtained from the merging and analysis of data available in ship reporting systems. it also provides surveillance and communication services based on the most advanced technologies and develops capacity through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices. by sharing capabilities, resources and information with the coast guard at cross-sectoral and cross-border level and by planning joint operations, the european maritime safety agency can better identify emerging risks in the maritime sector.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to amend the regulation on the european maritime safety agency, approved by the european parliament, arises from the need for enhanced cooperation between the european border and coast guard agency, the european fisheries control agency and the european maritime safety agency, and between them and the national authorities performing coast guard functions, in order to assist them in the consistent and effective management of their tasks. my vote in favour was to support measures on the exchange of information and cooperation on coast guard functions so that they can take account of operational challenges and emerging risks in the maritime sector. i also support the sharing of capacities and resources through the planning and implementation of multifunctional operations, in coordination with the relevant agencies and authorities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to strengthen cooperation and coordination at european level between authorities performing coast guard functions. in particular, new and additional powers will be conferred on the european maritime safety agency (esma): the provision of surveillance and communication services based on state-of-the-art technologies, capacity building through the development of guidelines, recommendations and best practices, capacity sharing, including the planning and implementation of multi-functional operations.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from the report: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this legislative proposal as it forms a part of the overall key aim to achieve a more united and efficient control over our external borders. currently coast guard functions in europe are carried out by around 300 different organisations, lacking cooperation and coordination, sometimes even at national level. this proposal would improve the sharing of information and capacities between these organisations; it would also provide authorities with increased capacity building and better surveillance and communication services. i also believe that this measure can start a process of using ‘best practices’, with member states learning from others, with the result of a more efficient, cooperative and coordinated effort to secure our external borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency because i believe it is necessary to set up a body to coordinate and support the work of national coastguards and to liaise with other eu agencies, first and foremost the new european border and coast guard. i am convinced that the challenges and events affecting our seas require a new approach, one that goes beyond national borders and finally takes the form of a common, and therefore european, approach. the exchange of information, the analysis of the data collected and their availability by all member states, the strengthening and pooling of capacities and resources are in fact obvious needs, especially considering the challenges posed by immigration in the mediterranean sea. i am therefore in favour of a european-style solution, which brings the member states together in a spirit of cooperation and no longer of opposition and which lays the foundations for greater solidarity and responsibility sharing, thus guaranteeing european citizens maritime security and harmonious border control.
in writing. the various coast guard functions in the union are currently carried out by more than 300 civil and military authorities in all member states. these national agencies are in turn supported by other european agencies. for these reasons the commission has stated the need to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the different bodies responsible, so as to make the service more efficient and less costly. the proposal aims to strengthen the security of the external borders, to facilitate the implementation of the fisheries policy and thus to combat illegal fishing, and to gradually establish a european coastguard system. for these reasons i welcome this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure establishing the european maritime safety agency because i believe it can contribute to the control, surveillance and prevention of the sector, countering its risks and improving the exchange of information between the different authorities performing coast guard functions at national and union level.
in writing. ‒maritime security is currently under the control of more than 300 civil and military authorities. in 2014, the commission presented a text containing the feasibility study of measures to make the coast guard service more efficient. the proposal under voting therefore aims to improve the synergies between the various authorities and also allows for greater cooperation between the agencies concerned: the european border and coast guard agency, emsa and the efca. i think that we need an effective system of control now more than ever, so i support the proposal and i will vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ parliament was asked to approve an amendment to the commission's proposal to set up a european maritime safety agency to update its work in the light of the migrant and refugee crisis. the agency, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, shall support national authorities carrying out coast guard functions at national and union level and, where appropriate, at international level. in particular, the maritime safety agency will be called upon to improve the exchange of information and cooperation on coast guard functions and emerging risks in the maritime sector. i believe that the highest possible level of cooperation between the various sectoral eu agencies should be encouraged. the proper exchange of information and data is the essential precondition for achieving concrete results. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a european maritime safety agency is closely linked to the proposal for a european coast guard which was voted on in plenary on the same day. the main function of this agency will be to ensure a high level of maritime safety and security and to prevent pollution from ships. the amendments introduced for this agency, for which i voted in favour, are part of the wider reform of coastal control and management. it is very interesting that for the first time the european commission has included an article on cooperation between coast guard functions to carry out joint operations for surveillance, prevention and control of maritime activities coordinated at european level; this will strengthen cooperation with the national authorities performing these functions. i welcome the proposal which concretely strengthens cooperation between the national and european levels.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency was set up in 2003 after two major environmental disasters, namely the erika (1999) and prestige (2002) oil tanker disasters. the agency contributes to the enforcement of european maritime regulations, provides assistance for operations against marine pollution, monitors and tracks maritime traffic and supports national administrations through technical assistance. i have decided to vote in favour of this text because it will promote the sharing of information, personnel and resources between the european border and coast guard agency, the european fisheries control agency and the european maritime safety agency, with the aim both of creating an even more important synergy between them and of improving the safety of european waters.
in writing. ‒ the european maritime safety agency aims to ensure a high, effective and uniform level of maritime safety in the european union. it also works to prevent pollution and to respond to pollution caused by ships or by gas and hydrocarbon extraction installations. we must bear in mind that the mediterranean is considered to be a sea at very high risk of pollution by hydrocarbons. collisions, accidents, or even acts of terrorism account for only 20 percent of marine oil pollution. chronic leakage occurs rather during routine operations of tankers, such as the discharge of ballast water, or during discharge at terminals. in addition, there are criminal acts by certain vessels which illegally wash the tankers of oil tankers on the high seas. giving this authority more powers and the necessary funding is a great investment in the future of our seas.
in writing. ‒ in 2005, the eu set up the fisheries control agency (efca) to support the applicable rules and strategies under the common fisheries policy. in view of the recent establishment of the european border and coast guard agency, the commission has proposed to integrate the capacities of the two bodies, in order to develop better service provision not only in terms of surveillance but also in terms of communication. i voted in favour of this because i believe it is important to harmonise the powers of the respective agencies, so that the efca can better fulfil its role as the guardian of the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cadec report on the community fisheries control agency. this is a proposal which aims to increase cooperation at european level in the field of coast guard functions through the development of cross-sectoral cooperation. the european maritime safety agency, the community fisheries control agency and the future european border and coast guard agency will be involved in this context. the new synergy will ensure more efficient services and will enable the three european agencies already responsible for responding to disasters at sea to coordinate their operations at sea and share information relevant to their actions.
in writing. ‒ the cadec report is well structured and shareable, so i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to ensure that the community fisheries control agency can work more closely with both the european maritime safety agency and the new european border and coast guard agency, and with national authorities. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. they work together through 70 different structures. the existing cooperation system therefore has shortcomings, in particular due to the lack of coordination and exchange of information between the various authorities and agencies. the three european agencies and the national authorities active in coast guard functions should be able to cooperate, pooling their response capabilities and sharing information from surveillance, in order to ensure safe navigation and maritime security. such cooperation will avoid duplication of effort and is essential in the current migration context. the high levels of migration facing the european union require a strengthening of material and human solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency (efca) was set up in 2005 to support the application of european standards in the field of fisheries policy and its role cannot and should not be marginalised by the creation of the new european border and coast guard agency. the report therefore aims to harmonize the relevant basic texts in order to allow for a smooth and fruitful cooperation. the activities of efca include the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing and therefore play a central role. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency' because i believe that through cooperation and coordination between the three european agencies - the european maritime safety agency, the european coast and border guard agency and the fisheries control agency - the union's capacity to respond to any threats in the maritime sector can be strengthened by increasing the european coordination of maritime surveillance and control operations and promoting coherent and effective action.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, there is still too much confusion today in defining the specific competences of national authorities performing coast guard functions. i am convinced that better planning and cooperation can really help to avoid delays and gaps in the sector resulting from a lack of joint operations. in europe we have more than 300 national authorities responsible for safeguarding this sector, but without proper cooperation between them, problems and misunderstandings arise which make their task more complicated and put the security of the citizens of the union at risk. i therefore support this proposal for greater coordination and cooperation between the various authorities through the creation of three new european agencies. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the community fisheries control agency is part of the framework for managing maritime crises and disasters, together with the european maritime safety agency and the european coast and border guard agency. i voted in favour of the proposal which is intended to enable the three european agencies responsible for maritime affairs to coordinate operations and share information useful for their activities. the proposal will coordinate surveillance, control and prevention operations at european level to increase awareness of maritime issues and to support coherent and cost-effective action. the three european agencies will be able to support national authorities and conduct operations in the areas of security, control and surveillance, providing information, tools and training and ensuring the necessary coordination of operations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of a community fisheries control agency because i share the objective of strengthening the cooperation and coordination of the three european agencies in order to support national authorities carrying out coast guard functions. there are 316 civil and military coastguard authorities: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in particular, pooling their operational capabilities, information analysis, surveillance and communication services, strengthening their capacity to develop guidelines and share good practices will facilitate activities to detect criminal activities, to disrupt trafficking routes and to ensure the application of community and national legislation. in recent years, the pressure on our external borders has increased, with devastating effects and consequences also on our internal borders. only through joint action and solidarity, involving the responsibility of all the member states, will it be possible to protect our external borders without jeopardizing freedom of movement and the right to move within europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency because i believe it is important to promote the coordination of maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level, increasing the interoperability between systems and joint operations. the proposal also promotes maritime situational awareness and supports consistent and cost-effective action.
in writing. ‒ currently, there are 316 national authorities within the european union that carry out coast guard functions and cooperate through 70 different structures. however, the existing cooperation system is lagging behind and lacks in particular due to the lack of information on the competences, powers and capacities of the other authorities, but also due to the limited number of operational resources, the lack of interoperability between systems and resources and the shortcomings in terms of joint planning and operations. as a result, i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the importance of coordination of operations at sea and the sharing of information between the three european agencies. in particular, the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european coast and border guard agency need to be able to cooperate by pooling their response capabilities and sharing surveillance information in order to ensure safe navigation and maritime security.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which allows the european agencies to coordinate operations at sea and to share information useful for their actions.
in writing. ‒ this is an important proposal as it aims to increase the eu’s capacity in dealing with disasters at sea, and to make the eu’s effort in this area more efficient, united and coordinated. it is important that the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency be able to cooperate by pooling and sharing their operational capacities and surveillance information. this in order to enhance maritime safety and security in our waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency because i believe that the different european agencies dealing with the control of our seas and the security of our external borders should coordinate and work together, avoiding duplication and overlap and thus increasing their effectiveness. the three agencies proposed by the union are on this path of cooperation and collaboration between the member states, simplification of procedures and joint responsibility. the sharing of information, pooling of resources and capabilities and the provision of common services are therefore important aspects of coordination of operations at sea, which must necessarily be european. the amendment to regulation 768/2005 will therefore allow the eu fisheries agency to cooperate with other agencies in rescue operations at sea and to coordinate the actions of over 300 national coastal authorities.
in writing. ‒ patrol of europe's coasts has become a priority not only for national armed forces but also for the union's structures. much progress has been made since the establishment of the frontex agency. however, there is still a long way to go before the work of the more than 300 national authorities is fully harmonised. i believe that it is absolutely urgent to act in this direction by promoting actions to strengthen cooperation between the various forces on the ground to deal with what is now a chronic and no longer an emergency situation on our coasts. that is why i support this report, which aims to improve the efficiency of the whole system, and which will also lead to economic savings in the medium term, by proposing, in essence, to align the competences of the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency with regard to cooperation in the field of coast guard functions. it is more than ever necessary in the light of recent events to take steps to optimise and make the forces on the ground more efficient.
in writing. this proposal aims to support national authorities in the operation of coastguards at national and european level by making possible and efficient cooperation between three european agencies, namely efca, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard agency. these agencies will have the opportunity to pool their capabilities and exchange information on an ongoing basis, in order to enhance maritime security. the commission therefore proposes to amend the mandate of the agencies, which will, among other things, have the task of coordinating maritime operations at european level, sharing information on surveillance, prevention and control activities, managing potential disasters at sea, and strengthening cooperation with national authorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the ep's proposal for a regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency. the aim of the proposal is to ensure that marine prevention, control and surveillance actions are coordinated at european level to support efficient actions and improve knowledge of the marine condition. it also strengthens cooperation with the coastguard, which is carried out by the national authorities. in the current migration environment, this cooperation is essential.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between maritime agencies will allow them to do their job more easily, avoiding confusion and overlap. a coordinated system will give better results in responding to those who need assistance at sea. this is an important step in the safety of waters beyond our shores.
in writing. ‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a number of tasks in very different areas, such as navigation safety, maritime security, rescue at sea and border control. the system currently has gaps and delays due to various reasons such as lack of operational resources or information on skills. the proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level in order to improve knowledge of the maritime situation and support coherent and cost-effective action. the three agencies will also be able to provide support to national authorities and to conduct effective control, safety and surveillance operations. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the shortcomings of the current system require timely responses. the shortcomings of the sector, which has 316 authorities with coast guard functions, are due to various factors, such as the lack of information on the competences, powers and capabilities of other authorities or the limited number of operational resources. i therefore believe that greater cooperation between the european fisheries control agency is necessary. the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency can undoubtedly bring benefits to the maritime surveillance sector. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a number of tasks in areas as diverse as navigation safety, maritime security, rescue at sea, border control, customs controls, environmental protection and general law enforcement. there are currently 316 national authorities of this type across the european union, working together through 70 different structures. the proposal for a regulation aims to strengthen the european union's capacity to deal with threats and risks in the maritime sector, in particular by improving cooperation between the three european agencies involved. such cooperation is crucial in the current migration context. the european fisheries control agency contributes to the control of fisheries-related operations but cannot currently intervene in other maritime areas. this regulation will clarify and strengthen its areas of action in cooperation on coast guard functions. i welcome this proposal and have voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr cadec on the proposal to amend the regulation on the community fisheries control agency. the text adopted aims to strengthen the eu's capacity to deal with threats and risks in the maritime sector. as with the maritime safety agency, the reform of the fisheries control agency also falls within the context of coastal management and control. it is precisely cooperation between these agencies that will be essential for effective and efficient coastal management, which can only be pursued at community level, by pooling their capacity for action and sharing information in order to improve maritime safety. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's maritime policy.
in writing. ‒ the text adopted gives more powers to the community fisheries control agency which, in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european maritime safety agency, will support national authorities carrying out coast guard activities through information sharing, the exchange of surveillance and communication services and through the development and exchange of staff. i think this report is very important because it provides for improved cooperation between the various agencies, also in view of the current migrant crisis. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the many national control authorities have different tasks, such as safety of navigation, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, control of fishing activities and environmental protection. but there is still no real system of cooperation. i supported this proposal which will enable maritime surveillance, prevention and control agencies to work together by pooling their response capabilities and sharing information from surveillance in order to ensure safety of navigation and maritime security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. there are currently 316 national authorities throughout the european union carrying out coast guard functions and cooperating through 70 different structures. the existing cooperation system is lagging behind and has gaps, in particular due to the lack of information on the competences, powers and capacities of other authorities, the limited number of operational resources, the lack of interoperability between systems and resources and the shortcomings in terms of joint planning and operations. the proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level in order to improve knowledge of the maritime situation and support coherent and cost-effective action.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office investigates cases of corruption, detects serious misconduct by union staff and works with the commission to implement policies to prevent such crimes. the report presented aims to amend the office's rules of procedure by strengthening its independence and maintaining the level of access to information, thus allowing it to better carry out its functions. the autonomy and independence of such a body is an indispensable tool for the implementation of the policies for which it is responsible. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ over the past years, the european parliament has repeatedly invited the commission to submit a series of proposals to strengthen the independent functioning of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office. finally, following the requests of 2013 and 2014, a proposal to amend regulation no 883/2010 was therefore submitted. i supported the gräßle report because i believe that the measures adopted by the new text fully pursue the objectives set by the ep. under the new rules, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission and the budgetary appropriations will be directed to it, thus ensuring a genuinely independent secretariat with a sufficient staff. staff will, however, be subject to the same confidentiality rules as under the previous legislation.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal for a regulation is to transfer the budget appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee from the budget line and staff establishment plan of olaf to those of the commission. in addition to the fact that this measure will have no financial impact on the european budget, i fully share its aim, which is to eliminate any possible conflict of interest within olaf by strengthening the independence and effectiveness of the secretariat of the supervisory committee. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) investigates corruption and serious irregularities within the institutions of the european union (eu), as well as fraud against the eu budget. for this reason, and because of its role as a controller and guarantor, it is important that it be absolutely independent of the executive and the political factions. strengthening the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat means making the supervisory committee's work more effective, as the european parliament has long been asking the commission - but little has been heard of it: it is therefore in the interest of the european citizens and of us in this house to support the amendment for the betterment of the regulation in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because strengthening the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office means avoiding the risk of possible conflicts of interest and providing an additional guarantee for the protection of eu interests. the latest employment report shows a surge in investigations by the european anti-fraud office. the office opened 215 new cases and closed 304 investigations, most of which concerned irregularities in the use of the structural and social funds. the european parliament has already called on the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, for example in the resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. i believe that the time has come to take this important step and to add a further element to protect the financial interests of the european union by ensuring that the resources allocated are used in the best possible way. the same supervisory committee, in its annual activity reports for 2013 and 2014, stressed the importance of legal independence as regards the management of the committee's budget and the secretariat. the proposed regulation will have no financial impact.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulations establishing olaf (european anti-fraud office). these amendments are designed to ensure greater independence for olaf's supervisory body by creating a separate budget line for olaf and its secretariat, which is no longer managed by olaf but by the european commission. this is a measure which will have no financial impact on the european budget and which can solve the current problems of tension between olaf and its supervisory body.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office as i believe it is important to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat in order to increase the effectiveness of its functioning.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal which simply aims to improve an existing regulation concerning the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office. the proposal aims to strengthen the independence of the body so that it can act freely and maximise the benefits for citizens. we are talking about independence precisely because the anti-fraud monitoring committee has some internal weaknesses which limit the achievement of its objectives. i am therefore convinced that this proposal can strengthen the independence of this body and thus increase the effectiveness of the supervisory committee. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, thereby helping to improve the effectiveness of the olaf supervisory committee. this proposal is merely an administrative procedure designed to facilitate certain organisational and financial aspects. the purpose of the proposal is to increase the guarantees of independence of the secretariat.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution approves the commission proposal on the functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. i voted in favour of the resolution because my vote is intended to support the strengthening of the guarantees of independence of the secretariat and to improve its effectiveness and efficiency. to that end, the commission should provide the secretariat with adequate means to carry out its functions and should refrain from interfering with the monitoring functions of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, which would have the effect of improving its functioning. the supervisory committee itself has on several occasions stressed the importance of its independent and effective functioning, through the provision of independent staff and adequate staff.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report which contains a mere technical measure to eliminate any possible conflict of interest within olaf.
in writing. the objective of this proposal is to improve the effectiveness of the functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat by strengthening its independence. the commission therefore intends to entrust the secretariat to the pmo. this practice will not affect the independent functioning of the secretariat but will be purely administrative in nature and will be responsible for facilitating budgetary and organisational aspects. the head of the secretariat will be responsible for managing and evaluating the staff, which will be carried out on the basis of a report by a monitoring committee. for the reasons mentioned above, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
in writing. ‒ this report involves minor changes to the structure of olaf, the anti-fraud office, which will reduce conflicts of interest and increase the independence of the office. it will allow the european commission to appoint the secretariat of the supervisory board and will help them to fulfil their mission and serve the citizens of the european union with a higher degree of efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there is an urgent need to strengthen the functioning of the secretariat of the supervisory committee; this is because the organ can be said to be independent. to this end, i support the proposal that the secretariat of the monitoring committee should be provided by the commission and not by olaf. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. this is a technical and very sensitive issue, which has been the focus of the european parliament's attention since 2013. although olaf is virtually unknown to many european citizens, it plays a vital role in the fight against fraud at european level. it is responsible for investigating cases of fraud against the union budget and cases of corruption in the european institutions. in view of the activities carried out by this body, it is necessary that the authority responsible for monitoring these activities (the supervisory committee) be fully independent, which is why in the text presented the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided directly to the commission, and the budget of the secretariat will appear in the budget line of the ec and no longer in that of olaf. the transparency introduced by these amendments will only make the functioning of this body even more effective, which is why i am in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the amendment to olaf regulation 883/2013 is to enable the olaf supervisory committee (sc) to better fulfil its supervisory function, in particular by strengthening its independence from olaf, as well as from any other body. the rapporteur believes that this strengthening of independence can only be achieved if the current level of access to information and the administrative autonomy of the sc secretariat are maintained. the current proposal aims to incorporate the decommissioning of the sc from the olaf budget into the olaf regulation and to ensure the independence of the sc secretariat from interference by the commission and is therefore limited in scope. under the proposed new regulation, the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission, and no longer by olaf. the budgetary appropriations for the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be moved from the budget line and the staff table of olaf to that of the commission. the proposed amendment should have no financial impact on the european budget.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework sets the limits of the union's annual budgets. adopted unanimously by the council, parliament is called upon to deliver its opinion, pending the final assessment by the commission. while the text highlights some shared priorities, it is equally true that the use of instruments such as the efsi, the agreement with turkey on migrants or the alleged successes of the youth employment initiative cannot be shared in any way. i have voted against these remarks because i do not think that the text offers satisfactory and practical solutions to the problems raised.
in writing. ‒ the current multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, adopted in 2013, was the first to be implemented under the provisions of the lisbon treaty and reflects the priorities of a very different international and european context than the current one. the recent challenges involving security, mass migration and youth unemployment are new elements which are more important than previously anticipated. the olbrycht and thomas report, which i supported, clearly identifies the critical points of the mff and points the way forward to improve the financial plan and make the union's response fit for the challenges of the present and the future. the union must make full use of the entire budget available and any surpluses must be used to meet the real needs of citizens, avoiding the development and proliferation of those ad hoc instruments, such as the madad fund, which create problems of accountability and control. finally, there is a need to make extensive use of the existing provisions on flexibility in the mff.
in writing. ‒ the olbrycht-thomas report would have us believe that the solution to the problems of the eu and its citizens is simply to inflate the budget and expand its exclusive scope of action at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states; it is quite clear that these 'solutions' are the real problems of europe, which is why i did not intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2017, we will be faced with the mid-term review of the eu's multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the resources, already scarce at the time of the adoption of the mff in 2013, have proved to be wholly inadequate in the face of the commitments the eu has had to face in these first two years of its mandate. two chapters in all: refugees/borders and initiatives for economic growth and youth employment. the resolution we are voting on today in parliament makes it clear that the revision must be ambitious and must focus on increasing budget lines, especially in those areas where the eu's credibility is at stake in the face of the accusations of inaction. i am thinking in particular of the absolute need to deal with the refinancing of youth employment initiatives such as the youth guarantee, or even the importance of protecting the spending chapters devoted to innovation and research in the industrial sector.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a positive action if it serves to ensure the achievement of the european climate and energy policy objectives for 2020 and 2050 set out in europe 2020 and cop21 in paris, respectively. the transformation of the european economy into a low-carbon economy will be one of the main challenges facing the union in the coming years, and it will have to be met if it is to ensure a healthy and environmentally sustainable future for its citizens. in this context, it is also important that the union supports innovation and entrepreneurship in the territory in line with the desire to strengthen the domestic economy by boosting demand and maintaining production and processing facilities on the territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that in 2016 a review of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff) is needed to take stock of some of the major crises and new policy initiatives and their financial implications, which were not foreseen at the time of the adoption of the mff. i am thinking in particular of the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the crisis in payments in the eu budget, the persistence of high unemployment, particularly among young people, and poverty and social exclusion. i also believe that the review of the mff should be useful in checking the performance of the funds allocated, in order to verify that the objectives have been achieved. i therefore call on the commission to put forward concrete proposals to address any shortcomings in this respect in order to ensure the most efficient possible use of the scarce financial resources.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report is highly critical in the part where it praises instruments such as the efsi and the agreement with turkey on migrants. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on preparing the post-electoral review of the mff 2014-2020: parliament's contribution to the commission proposal because i believe that a revision of the multiannual financial framework is necessary if the union is to face a number of difficult challenges and to complete its policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the multiannual financial framework (mff) has financed a wide range of activities to promote growth and employment, achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion and promote solidarity. however, the european union is still facing very difficult challenges, including the migration and refugee crisis and internal security, which make it even more difficult to effectively secure the investments needed to promote youth employment. the youth unemployment rate is at a dramatic level and i am convinced that with the resources available we cannot invest for much longer. i therefore agree with this proposal which aims at a genuine mid-term review of the mff so that the union can effectively meet the challenges it faces while at the same time achieving its policy objectives. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft report is part of the process leading to the mid-term review of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which aims to guide the commission's proposal for the future. i voted in favour of the report, which deals with many key issues, and in this connection i would like to stress the importance of the youth employment initiative which italy is implementing through a national operational programme, which has been very well received.
in writing. ‒ the report is an important document because it comes at a sensitive time to take stock of the effects of the crises affecting our continent, which the institutions are facing and which have highlighted the limitations of the current mff, making its revision absolutely essential, linked to a change in the system itself. there are certain points which must be tackled, starting with the revision of the headings (including those on social and territorial cohesion and security), which have been the most affected by the needs of the migrant crisis and which must be brought into line with the needs and objectives which europe has set itself. equally important is the need to avoid further increases in the number of unpaid invoices (so-called rals). it is paradoxical that at a time when the immediate needs are greatest, the european budget does not have the instruments for immediate and available intervention. in this context, it is essential to review the flexibility mechanisms and the emergency tool. we are committed to ensuring that the european budget finally becomes the instrument for guaranteeing investment and growth, without renouncing the possibility of offering immediate support in emergencies.
in writing. ‒ i am against this report, which says that all the problems of european citizens can be solved simply by inflating the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this own-initiative report as i think it touches upon several important issues about the review of the mff. in addition, it outlines important guidelines for the future funding of projects and how we can better deal with evolving situations and priorities. the report confirms the fact that the mff has been stretched to the limits and that in order for us to continue to deal with the current crises we need unprecedented recourse to be relocated to the mff’s flexibility mechanisms and instruments. the report also raises an important issue in that the multiplying of financing instruments to deal with our pressing crises has meant a lacking in accounting control and democratic oversight.
in writing. ‒ providing europe with adequate and ambitious budgetary resources is essential to ensure the credibility and sustainability of the european project: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the union, and has also set up a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model. from the beginning of the legislature parliament, and in particular the s&d group, have been pushing for the commission to clearly review the spending priorities foreseen in the multiannual financial framework. the european budget has been affected by many emergencies over the last two years, and now we need a major political initiative to encourage the member states not only to revise the spending chapters for the coming years but also to start thinking now about how to change the own resources system in depth and how to ensure that the next multiannual framework is marked by clear choices and commitments for growth and investment. i therefore welcome the adoption of the own-initiative report, which sets out in an exemplary way the political priorities for the future eu budget.
in writing. in view of the proposal from the new commission, i support the own-initiative resolution setting out parliament's priorities for the mid-term review of the mff for the 2014-2020 period. these are indispensable measures, dictated by the need to respond to the many challenges we face, which deserve effective responses, and to adapt the budget conceived years ago to the new needs and changes taking place in europe. the report stresses the need for an upward revision of the multiannual budget, with greater flexibility to deal with emergencies, through the creation of a crisis reserve, and the maintenance of pre-allocated appropriations in important areas such as the structural funds and rural development, which should not be reduced. we must use every euro of the european budget effectively to ensure that europe is able to deal with a crisis that no longer has borders, in terms of managing migration flows and defending borders, and with regard to the situation of refugees. there is no development or growth without a real economic recovery which passes through a strategic investment plan and a revised european budget.
in writing. ‒ regarding the preparations for the post-electoral revision of the 2014-2020 mff and parliament’s input ahead of the commission’s proposal, i voted in favour. as the current mff has been in force for three years without being overhauled, it did not allow for new obstacles of that kind that the european union is facing now. some of the issues mentioned in the report, for example migration and the refugee crisis, the low level of investment, and youth unemployment, are significant difficulties that must be solved or alleviated as soon as possible. the report also includes parliament’s comments and demands, and the use of the mff’s flexibility provisions, which is very comprehensive.
in writing. ‒ adjusting the multiannual financial framework (mff) will enable the european union to adapt to the challenges it faces today. over the past few years, new humanitarian and security issues have emerged that deserve europe's attention. our financial framework must be adapted to the new needs, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with article 2 of the mff regulation, the commission is now presenting a mandatory review of the functioning of the mff. in view of the difficult economic situation and the political challenges facing the european union and the member states every day, i believe that the proposals in the document before this house should be supported. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the revision of the mid-year multiannual financial framework because i believe that the eu budget must be revised in the light of the emergencies that have emerged in recent years. the 2014-2020 mff, when it was voted in the last legislature, had a very reduced funding capacity compared to previous years and now this limit is increasingly evident. the migration crisis of the last two years has particularly tested the european union, which has found itself completely lacking in all the means to deal with this crisis. the revision of the mff is exactly what we are asking for: the eu must be given the means to carry out its action, and not just during emergencies. the path indicated in this resolution is the right one and the commission will have to take it into account if we do not want to be back where we started in three years' time.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr olbrycht (epp) and mr thomas (s&d) concerns the revision of the eu's multiannual financial framework, also known as the mff. as my group's rapporteur has rightly said, the eu budget has proved insufficient to meet the many challenges of the european agenda, so additional resources and greater flexibility are needed. the report also touches on the issue of reallocation of resources, proposing that money not spent but in the european budget be redirected to other more urgent areas, such as the migration crisis. the report also calls for easier access to european funding, which is too often considered "out of reach" by local authorities because of the legislative maze that hinders access to these funds. i fully agree with the points made and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the european commission has, through the juncker plan and other strategies, worked to increase investment, but on the other hand it is necessary to reduce waste and allocate resources more efficiently and effectively if the eu is to achieve the ambitious policy objectives it has set itself.
in writing. ‒ despite the listing of some shared priorities, such as the need for greater flexibility between the different headings and their ceilings, and the urgency of having to deal with the dramatic issue of late payments, i have decided to vote against the proposed text because of some critical points. the text, which is parliament's political contribution to the proposal that the european commission should present by the end of this year for a mandatory evaluation of the functioning of the multiannual financial framework, highlighted the success of some instruments and initiatives that did not in fact have the positive results described, such as the efsi, the youth employment initiatives and the agreement reached with turkey on the migrant emergency. the commission notes that the aid is not compatible with the internal market. the problem is acknowledged, but no concrete solutions are envisaged. i therefore decided not to support the proposed text, given the shortcomings and critical points.
in writing. ‒ the text we voted on today is nothing more than parliament's 'political' contribution to the proposal that the european commission should present by the end of 2016 for a mandatory evaluation of the functioning of the mff, accompanied by a possible legislative proposal for the revision of the regulation on the same multiannual financial framework. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. several factors, most notably the refugee crisis, have helped to show the need for adequate tools to deal with unforeseen emergencies, and there is no denying this either. the discourse becomes more problematic when instruments such as the efsi, the agreement with turkey on migrants or the great success of the youth employment initiative are praised. the commission has also proposed a new system of financial corrections for the financial year 2000-2006. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in february 2015, a special committee, taxe i, was set up to shed light on the tax practices of member countries, in order to combat tax evasion at european level. the work was then continued by the taxe ii committee, which focused on a number of key points: improve the exchange of information; adopt reliable systems for calculating taxation; to establish a common corporate tax base. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the report by mr theurer and mr kofod on advance rulings in tax matters and other measures of a similar nature or effect. in recent years, several scandals have brought the issue of tax havens to the attention of the public, such as the "luxleaks" case or the more recent "panama papers". these developments have strongly underlined the risks and damage caused by tax evasion and dumping, which primarily affect small and mediumsized enterprises and public enterprises, the core of the european economy. the text adopted calls on the commission to draw up a blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions and to provide for new sanctioning mechanisms, including the suspension of free trade agreements and the prohibition of access to european funds. member states should implement direct sanctions against business managers involved in tax evasion by providing for the revocation of business licences. the creation of a code of conduct for banks, tax advisers, accountancy and legal firms and a commission proposal on a common consolidated corporate tax base should also be added to all these measures.
in writing. ‒ while the report's intentions are certainly to be welcomed, the fact remains that in several steps it enters into a field which i believe should remain the responsibility of the member states, that of taxation, eroding ever more the boundary which still separates the sovereignty of the member states from eu action in this area. for these reasons i have decided to abstain and not to support the text under vote in its entirety.
in writing. ‒ in february 2015, following the luxleaks scandal, a special committee ('taxe') was set up to clarify tax practices in all member states and to assess ways of tackling corporate tax evasion. the member states need to cooperate more closely in tax matters, both to combat tax evasion and to reduce the tax gap within the european union. it is clear that tax evasion in luxembourg and other countries is a structural problem which can only be effectively tackled by a serious collective effort. tax evasion is a serious blow to the citizens of the countries of origin of the tax evaders, who see reduced services or increased taxes from the state treasury that must deal with the threat. according to the tax research institute, tax evasion in europe amounts to an average of 17% of gdp and deprives strategic resources from the pursuit of objectives of common interest of the union and the member states. this phenomenon must be vigorously combated to re-strengthen the institutions, reduce the social gap and improve citizens' confidence in the eu and its representatives.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on tax ruling, as i believe that the issue of tax transparency is still not progressing satisfactorily, and this concern is also reflected in the report i am supporting. the latest developments in the brexit debate do not help to make the geoeconomic picture more understandable, and in this uncertainty the processes of tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning are stagnating, of which the luxleaks and panama papers scandals are only the most obvious part. it is therefore necessary to counter these phenomena with cooperation and transparency, by strengthening the banking union and combating moral hazard, which primarily involves financial institutions, which, as accomplices of the aggressive tax planning of multinationals, have contributed to destabilising an already fragile financial economic framework lacking adequate structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the text to be voted on is the final report of the taxe ii special committee. the absence of a section in the text on the country-by-country public reporting of multinational companies, which would help us to understand better where they operate and generate profits, and the absence of any reference to the political responsibilities of member states and individuals who have always acted in all places to obstruct the reforms needed to ensure tax transparency and fairness, have led me to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the high rate of tax evasion and avoidance combined with recent scandals have led to the establishment of the temporary committees of inquiry (taxe 1 and taxe 2) of the european parliament to shed light on this complex issue. the report voted on today in plenary is the result of the work carried out by taxe 2 which has identified several priority actions that will have to be taken by the european commission to combat this phenomenon. among these is certainly the need for a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) to provide a comprehensive solution to harmful tax practices. the work of whistleblowers in documenting tax evasion and avoidance has certainly been essential in the work of parliament. in view of their role, action will be needed to ensure and strengthen the protection of such persons at european level. the report voted by this house, which i think i support, has clearly indicated the need for the european commission to publish the 'black list of tax havens' based on the solid and objective criteria set out in the oecd recommendations. the work done by parliament put the right pressure on the council to agree to the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings and the establishment of a dedicated database.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that cooperation between member states should be increased in order to make the tax system more fair and transparent in order to avoid unfair and illegal competition.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that decisive action is needed to combat tax evasion. every year, millions of euros in tax evasion are carried out by multinational companies at the expense of citizens who are in difficulty because of the high amount of taxes they have to pay. in fact, many companies with crossborder offices manage to shift a part of their profits to tax havens so as not to pay taxes on them. we need unanimous cooperation from all countries to deal with this problem. i think it is essential that they apply a global standard of information exchange so that there is transparency in order to end the era of banking secrecy. the end of tax evasion would mean greater economic well-being for the member states and for the citizens of the union. i am therefore very much in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the taxe 2 committee was a necessary step to continue the work of the previous committee in identifying situations of tax fraud and wrongdoing. however, i believe that the proposal to create a new union centre for the coherence and coordination of tax policies within the commission structure does not identify clearly enough the ways in which personal data is collected and handled and which must be protected and safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ the revelations of the panama papers and luxleaks have demonstrated the urgent need for the eu and its member states to combat tax evasion, avoidance and aggressive tax planning. the european parliament's resolution on tax rulings, which i voted for, sets out a series of measures to be taken at both national and european level to increase cooperation and transparency of authorities in order to restore tax justice by making our tax system fairer and ensuring that corporate taxes are paid where value is created, not only in the member states but also globally. these measures include increasing the transparency of specific jurisdictions, establishing sanctions against tax havens, further defining the responsibilities of intermediaries and banking and tax advisers in the definition of tax rulings, protecting whistleblowers who report fraudulent practices, and mandatory tax measures on patents and research and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report, which, despite some positive steps, interferes too much with the tasks of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate my colleagues on the special committee on taxation for the great work of analysis and political evaluation which they have undertaken in over a year and a half of work. this is a matter of great political interest and will provide important information for the legislative work that europe will have to carry out in the coming years to prevent tax evasion and avoidance, which are still too often widespread in the member states. as a member of the new special committee to investigate the panama papers scandal, i believe that the work of the two taxe committees can be a very useful contribution which should not be wasted. i would particularly like to stress the clear emphasis on the need to draw up ever more accurate blacklists of tax havens, as well as the call for the introduction of ad hoc rules for the phenomenon of whistle-lowers: i think there are two very important and very concrete issues on which we will be watching to ensure that the european commission is able to legislate promptly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendations, drawn up by the special committee on taxation decisions (taxe2), because it has so far proved to be up to the mandate given to it by the ep, and together with the econ committee it has been a real driving force in the delicate but important field of fair taxation. the recommendations adopted by the ep call for more fairness and clarity in the area of taxation for businesses and in particular call on the council to introduce an eu public register of beneficial owners of companies, a blacklist of tax havens, measures against the abuse of patent box schemes, a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers, a consolidated common corporate tax base (ccctb) and a withholding tax on profits leaving the eu. in a context of political turbulence, where the legitimacy of the eu is being called into question, these recommendations send a clear signal to the demands and needs of eu citizens for social equity and economic and social growth. in this context, tax transparency and fairness can be essential to re-establish the pillar of democracy, which is tax consent. the ball now goes to the council.
in writing. this report highlights the violations by member states of the principle of loyal cooperation, but also the commission's knowledge of the non-compliance of these states with the principle of loyal cooperation. the report also aims to highlight other sensitive issues such as the failure to communicate the correspondences between tax systems which lead to unfair competition. on the basis of the panama papers, luxleaks and other leaks, it has been possible to demonstrate the need for the eu and the member states to fight tax evasion and avoidance, by seeking to increase systems of cooperation and transparency in order to make our tax system fairer, thus ensuring that the taxes that companies are obliged to pay remain where they do business. the member states and the commission are invited to adopt further legislative proposals to avoid a repetition of such behaviour. the taxe 2 system is part of this, shedding light on the tax systems of all member states, examining ways of putting an end to unfair tax practices and combating tax evasion in europe. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is against the interests not only of the law but also of citizens and businesses. we must close the tax loopholes and the tax haven loopholes. this is a global problem, but europe must do everything it can to prevent criminal activity and hold companies accountable for their part in tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ given the seriousness of tax evasion in the european union, as revealed by the 'panama papers' and 'luxleaks' cases, measures are needed to curb this dangerous phenomenon and increase the degree of transparency that is not guaranteed in the case of an aggressive tax policy. i believe that the lists drawn up by some member states of so-called tax havens can help to create effective legislation in this area. i support the proposal and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion and aggressive tax planning are behaviours that put the very fabric of our society at risk. the european parliament, and our group in particular, has been calling for years for strong and convincing european action to combat these practices. the special parliamentary committee, the second in this parliamentary term, has done a commendable job in the wake of the luxleaks and panama papers scandals, but it is from the commission and the member states that we still have to see real commitment on taxation, although something has already been done earlier this year such as the anti-avoidance package and the amendments to the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. the large multinationals also need to make their profits and losses, the taxes they pay on them and, above all, where they pay them, transparent. we must uphold the principle that taxes should be paid where the profit is made, it is a matter of justice and fairness. the eu's credibility also depends on a firm response to these scandals and abuses: further delays in enforcement will not only harm honest taxpayers but the very foundations and values of the union. i therefore support this resolution, calling for a greater eu commitment on this front.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax ruling. the text is the result of the work of the taxe 2 committee, a special committee set up in the wake of the notorious luxleaks scandal, which is responsible for shedding light on member states' tax practices and for examining ways of combating unfair tax practices in the eu, such as tax evasion and avoidance. however, during the first six months the committee was significantly hampered in its work by the lack of the necessary documentation that the member states and the multinationals in question should have provided. for this reason the commission has been extended beyond the six months originally planned. in line with my group's position, i am in favour of the need to clarify the issue and to find a common solution to the problem of tax evasion and avoidance. as mrs hubner (epp) said, as long as tax policy remains the preserve of the member states it will be impossible to combat these unfair practices effectively as there will still be gaps and imbalances between the states, but i believe that greater cooperation and transparency between the different national tax systems can already be an important step forward.
in writing. i think that this report by the second taxe committee contains very positive indications for continuing the fight against tax evasion by multinational companies, first of all the focus on the central and indispensable role played by banks in facilitating tax evasion and avoidance, on which we have been very insistent, but also the call for the adoption of more effective measures to combat this phenomenon, such as the correct proposal, which was never implemented, for a common consolidated tax base for taxes on multinational companies. however, i cannot give my full support to a report which, just like the previous one, deliberately absolves from their responsibilities - which emerge unequivocally from the documents still covered by the obligation of confidentiality - the political personalities of certain specific member states who have played a key role in creating and maintaining this absurd and unjust tax system. the real scandal is that, but this report pretends not to know it, the same individuals, like juncker, who in the past have blocked in every way any attempt at reform towards greater transparency and fairness in taxation, are now leading the institution whose task it is to take the fight against tax avoidance in europe forward and to build a fairer tax system.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the final report of the taxe ii special committee, which took up and continued the work of taxe i by adding updates in terms of the development of european policies and new analyses in this area. the text contains some important indications, such as the need to have a ccctb as soon as possible, the importance of improving the exchange of information between countries in the tax area, the continuing fight against non-cooperative jurisdictions and also there is a strong criticism of some systems such as patent boxes, which are in fact used to circumvent the right taxation; the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the text lacks a section on the public country-by-country and there is no reference whatsoever to the political responsibilities of member states and individuals who have in fact always acted in all places to obstruct the reforms needed to ensure tax transparency and fairness.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policies are the european union's main instrument for investing in the real economy, with the main aim of bringing the eu closer to its citizens and their needs. the combination of investment instruments such as the erdf and the esf and the research and innovation priorities of horizon 2020 can undoubtedly have a significant impact on reducing territorial, social and economic disparities in europe's regions. i therefore voted in favour, because i believe that the quantity and quality of funding for innovation and cohesion policies could be increased, through coordinated use, to the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu funds and programmes in support of innovation. the text stresses the need to strengthen the links between cohesion policy, which remains the eu's main instrument for investment in the real economy, and other funding programmes and initiatives such as the digital single market, the energy and innovation union and rural development. however, achieving these objectives requires strategic choices and planning by both regions and member states to identify new opportunities and promote excellence in the areas of smart specialisation. universities, industry and social partners must be able to contribute positively to the entrepreneurial discovery process and must be able to participate actively both upstream and downstream in the europe 2020 initiatives. finally, the commission should undertake to monitor synergies between the funds systematically and publish a communication on this subject, with a view to disseminating examples of good practice and thus increasing their impact in view of the review of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that greater integration and structured synergy between eu funds would be of great benefit to smes, especially in this period of widespread crisis, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the contribution of the different european structural and investment funds (esi funds) needs to be optimised by improving their synergies and cooperation with other funds - such as horizon 2020 - in research, innovation and competitiveness. maximising the impact and efficiency of european public funding is therefore a top priority to achieve good results by eliminating bottlenecks and divergences between funds. how can we ensure the maximum impact of this money? by involving more actors in the process to explore new synergies, assisting member states, regions and cities in developing smart strategies, promoting transnational cooperation between regions, simplifying procedures as much as possible, establishing platforms on so-called smart specialisations (such as the three already established on energy efficiency, industrial modernisation and food). of course, this complementary approach will also encourage more private investment, as the efsi plan is beginning to do. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains valuable suggestions, mainly addressed to the commission, on how to make full use of the funds earmarked for cohesion policies through the synergies provided for by the common strategic framework between all eu financial instruments. taking into account the job-creating potential of smes, the dossier pays particular attention to the needs of the design and implementation phases of the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme, including through the proposal for coordinated calls for proposals to facilitate access to multi-fund funding. the suggestions also include an immediate in-depth evaluation of relevant programmes, such as the cosme programme, the sme instrument under horizon 2020 and the sme component under the efsi, to check whether the budget allocation is sufficient, the success rate of projects, the administrative burden and the ease of implementation of the funds. i fully support the call for the development of a mechanism for systematic monitoring of synergies between the funds, in particular between horizon 2020 and the structural funds, with a view to disseminating good practice and increasing its impact in view of the review of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation. the resolution underlines that for the 2014-2020 financial programming period, cohesion policy remains the eu's main instrument for investing in the real economy. its ultimate objective should be widespread prosperity and the reduction of economic, social and territorial disparities. the resolution stresses in a very positive way that these objectives are still far from being achieved and calls on the commission and the member states to pay attention to the needs of smes in facilitating access to finance.
in writing. ‒ innovation and research are the areas on which the competitiveness of europe and its territories is based. in many countries, including my own, the national resources to be allocated to these sectors have been reduced in recent years, which has increased participation in horizon 2020, whose limited financial allocation and budgetary constraints (imposed on the european programme) cannot finance all those projects considered to be excellent. the synergy between the structural and investment funds (sifs) and the european research and competitiveness programmes, envisaged by the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, will be able to complement grants for this type of projects and increase the absorption rate of the structural funds, especially in those countries and regions that have the greatest difficulty in reaching the annual spending targets foreseen by the regional operational programmes. the possibility of combining funds is an opportunity that should also be seized to deliver the objectives of strategy 2020 and to boost development. the commission's support to the states will help to activate this synergy and to spread good practice which can have a multiplier effect for other realities. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu funds and programmes to support innovation' because i believe that the synergy between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme contributes to strengthening the single market and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. synergy between the funds will also be able to boost the competitiveness of smes by helping them to learn about and take advantage of regional and european funding opportunities in the field of research and innovation, and by increasing their participation in european projects.
in writing. ‒ there has been a lot of talk over this period about further strengthening synergies between the structural funds, horizon 2020 and other european funds to support innovation. a considerable amount will be made available to finance some projects which are judged to be excellent. i am therefore convinced that there is a need for better cooperation between the structural funds and horizon 2020 so that there is no overlap or contradiction between the different instruments. i believe very strongly in this programme, which has the potential to give rise to many projects which would sometimes be lost without the necessary sums to be invested. i am usually critical of the difficulty of accessing european funds but i must admit that this is a really good idea. as long as it's reachable by citizens who are eligible to claim these funds.
in writing. ‒ over the past few years, europe has launched a number of programmes in the field of innovation and development. think of the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu initiatives to support innovation. the resources put into the field, almost 80 billion euros, are also certainly significant. but that's not enough for us. europe will have a future if the protagonists of our land, artisans, smes, industry, research and training companies, can count on increasing opportunities to compete in an increasingly globalised and competitive market. this requires more systematic and effective coordination of all measures, maximising energy and resources, with a renewed role for regions and member states to identify and generate opportunities. only by creating concrete interactions between investment strategies and interventions can we have a significant impact on the economy, thereby ensuring a greater impact of the funds.
in writing. ‒ the eu must relaunch a european investment policy aimed at economic growth and employment. in this sense, investments in research, ict, renewable energy and smes are key and can provide a driving force for cooperation between member states, thus improving european competitiveness. i voted in favour because i support an investment policy which makes use of the synergies between the structural funds and the direct funds: horizon 2020 must necessarily be linked to the european structural funds through targeted spatial planning. this complementary approach makes it possible to fill gaps in the investment landscape for the benefit of territories and the real economy. strategic and smart planning is needed at both regional and national level to identify opportunities and areas where investment is needed. in this respect, it is essential to increase awareness of all funding opportunities, improve the flow of information, reduce administrative barriers and procedures. the commission must promote a european investment policy based on synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020, because only with this integrated approach can the gaps in the capacity of states for social and economic development be reduced, new employment opportunities and levels of social equity created.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period is the eu's main instrument for promoting investment in the real economy, and one of the most comprehensive expressions of the principle of european solidarity, helping to spread growth and prosperity by reducing economic, social and territorial disparities. in fact, cohesion policy should be aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and build on its three funds, such as the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf). i believe that the links between cohesion policy and other eu policies, funding programmes and initiatives such as horizon 2020 or the digital single market make a strong contribution to strengthening the single market and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i also believe that synergies with other european policies in favour of competitiveness should be strengthened, particularly in the field of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and small and mediumsized enterprises. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation. the resolution underlines that for the 2014-2020 financial programming period, cohesion policy remains the eu's main instrument for investing in the real economy. its ultimate objective should be widespread prosperity and the reduction of economic, social and territorial disparities. the resolution stresses in a very positive way that these objectives are still far from being achieved and calls on the commission and the member states to pay attention to the needs of smes in facilitating access to finance.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period continues to be the eu's main instrument for investment in the real economy, affecting all regions and bringing the european machine closer to its citizens. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it encourages synergies with other policies and instruments in order to maximise the impact of investment and to provide 'added value'. i believe that cohesion policy must be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in particular, i support the need to grant grants under the esi funds to those horizon 2020 projects which, due to budgetary constraints, may not receive funding even though they are considered excellent projects.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution calling for greater integration and synergy between funds with likely benefits for smes.
in writing. ‒ horizon 2020 is one of the most important eu projects and its role in innovation and research inside the eu cannot be understated. due to its importance, it is thus even more essential that we give the programme and its projects the best chance of success by improving its synergies with other eu investment programs such as esi funds. that we get the most out of our public investments is key for europe’s long-term competitiveness and thus indirectly for its long-term wealth. another interesting and positive proposal in the report is its call for the establishment of a european innovation council, something that i think should be assessed.
in writing. ‒ it is not possible to imagine a change of pace to get out of the difficult economic crisis we are experiencing without focusing on these three points. i therefore support the commission's commitment to increasing synergy between the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and the innovation, research and competitiveness programmes, and i hope that the regions and member states will take advantage of this development opportunity by promoting excellence in the areas of smart specialisation. the stronger the synergy, the more functional public financing and the more competitive supply will be under the pressure of the global market. the aim is therefore to optimise the funds in the light of growth and competitiveness.
in writing. i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu funds and programmes in support of innovation. cohesion policy for the achievement of the 2020 objectives is the best instrument for investment in the economy, it covers all european territories, it creates solidarity, it promotes social growth, and it reduces social and territorial economic disparities. it is a question of using these funds effectively and with strategic planning. for these reasons, we call for a consolidation of cohesion policy, a strengthening of synergies with other european policies, and a constant monitoring of funds, so as to produce an improvement in the various areas of research and development in the eu. only by uniting the efforts of the member states and the european institutions will we be able to achieve the objectives set by the union.
in writing. ‒ regarding the synergies between structural funds and horizon 2020, i voted in favour. as the efsi and european structural funds target different policies and institutional levels, complementarity between them is imperative. it is essential to guarantee optimal synergies between structural funds and horizon 2020 so as to maximize the capability of public funding and to maintain competitiveness in the global market.
in writing. ‒ the european union's main instrument for investment in the real economy is the cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period, which aims to eliminate economic disparities by bringing the european union closer to its citizens. i would also like to stress the opportunity for these funds to be used to improve, by increasing jobs and paying attention to the implementation of green energy, synergies with other european policies in favour of competitiveness, particularly in the field of research and development and small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020. the initiative launched by the european commission aims to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent efficiently, thereby improving synergies between eu funding for regional policy and research and innovation. current statistics show that funds of different kinds flow to different countries, with 90% of research and innovation funding (horizon 2020) going to the 'old' member states, while the structural funds are mostly allocated to projects in the 'new' member states. this allocation of funds is contrary to the very idea of the union, in which there should be homogeneity and territorial cohesion. the present situation is quite different, with some regions making a profit from european funding and others reporting total stagnation. the report we have voted on aims to overcome the current heterogeneity and the inefficiencies associated with it by implementing a more efficient reallocation of the funds available so that all regions can benefit from the money made available, without creating major imbalances within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i think it is very important that the eu fosters synergies between the various european funds and programmes to support innovation in such a way as to maximise their effects and thus create added value. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates the need to strengthen the links between cohesion policy and other eu innovation policies, funding programmes and initiatives (including horizon 2020, the digital single market, rural development and the energy union).
in writing. ‒ only by investing in innovation and focusing on advanced research projects can we make a significant impact on the economy by creating development and opportunities for smart growth and skilled employment. with this report we have drawn attention to the need to strengthen the results orientation of cohesion policies and to the need to increase cooperation between the various competitiveness policies of the union, especially in the areas of research and development, smes, renewable energy and ict. the aim is to create new, high-quality jobs, safeguard existing ones and promote an environmentally friendly economy. in order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to ensure more effective complementarity between the structural funds, the fund for strategic investments of the so-called 'juncker plan' and sectoral programmes, including horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, and the instruments of the european investment bank. in order to improve coordination between the various instruments and initiatives aimed at promoting innovation, parliament stressed the commission's role in monitoring these synergies and the preparation of a possible european innovation council, in association with all stakeholders, to work towards bridging the innovation gap. that is why i wanted to vote in favour today.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu funds and programmes in support of innovation. the resolution stresses that cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period continues to be the eu's main instrument for investing in the real economy. its ultimate objective should be widespread prosperity and the reduction of economic, social and territorial disparities. today, too often, these objectives remain on paper. much remains to be done to achieve social, economic and territorial equity: the eu is still divided not only between north and south, but also between eurocritics, eurosceptics and "euro-fanatics" mainly because of excessive bureaucratization, austerity policies and the supremacy of multinationals and finance over smes and the real economy. the resolution on paper is therefore good also because it calls on the commission and the member states to pay attention to the needs of smes in facilitating access to finance, but still at a practical and real level there is still much to be done to make this eu more fair and attentive to the needs of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ today, europe is facing many challenges and changes, to which citizens are demanding clear and defined answers. the identification of priorities in the new commission work programme is, for obvious reasons, a crucial moment in understanding which areas to focus on and by what means. i voted against the draft programme, however, because i do not think that it has produced any really effective solutions in key areas such as sustainable growth, the circular economy, the migration crisis and the world of work.
in writing. ‒ at a time when europe is facing unprecedented challenges, from the conflict in the middle east to the migration crisis and britain's exit from the eu, it is increasingly necessary to define a clear course of action for the near future. the joint motion for a resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017, which i supported today, sets out ten priority areas for action, ranging from improving the living and working conditions of citizens to strengthening the recovery and completing economic and monetary union. these are crucial issues which cannot be avoided and to which the commission has a duty to respond. the letter of intent which you will send to parliament next september will be a benchmark in this respect. i am convinced that a change of pace is necessary and i believe that this can also be achieved through the long-awaited implementation of the european pillar of social rights. security, employment, social rights and greater integration are the key to responding effectively to the challenges facing the continent.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the report under vote and therefore expressed my opposition to its adoption.
in writing. ‒ with the resolution adopted today, which i supported, the european parliament wanted to act in advance and to indicate to the commission what the priorities should be that will guide it in drafting its work programme for 2017. the developments of the last few months, and in particular the events of 23 june, have shown us that europe is at a crossroads, and that inaction is not the way forward. the european project is either going ahead or it is going to be bogged down. as a strong supporter of the first option, i believe that the priorities around which the union's action should be modulated should be redefined, taking greater account of some of the points which, thanks to the particularly active role of the s&d group, we have been able to include in the text voted on today in plenary. these are questions which reflect the demands of the citizens and which therefore need to be fully placed back on the european agenda. i am talking about the social dimension, about resilience to climate change, about providing shared and effective responses to common challenges such as the refugee crisis and the security problem, but also about returning to a europe that is growing, competitive, capable of creating jobs and attracting investment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the commission's work programme for 2017 to boost the eu's competitiveness. as the commission has said, employment must remain the top priority. to achieve this, the eu needs targeted investment to support the transition to an innovative and resource-efficient digital economy, re-industrialise europe and bring jobs back home. i therefore call on the commission to propose the necessary measures to encourage innovation and research. i voted in favour of the commission's programme also in order to facilitate access to capital for enterprises and smes, which is essential to encourage the creation of new products and services. as regards the migration and refugee crisis, i call on the commission to address the root causes of this crisis by strengthening cooperation with transit and origin countries in the context of migration flows. a key point in the commission's programme concerns measures to be taken to deal with the threats of terrorism and radicalisation, ranging from effective judicial and police cooperation to information sharing between national authorities and through europol and eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i have decided not to support the commission's draft work programme for 2017 with my vote, as i believe that it does not contain any really effective solutions in key areas such as sustainable growth, the circular economy, employment and the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 'commission work programme for 2017' because i consider it of fundamental importance to implement certain measures within it, including: enhanced security and stability for citizens, through increased cooperation between member states, enhanced economic recovery, through simplified access to funding channels for smes, enhanced response and other measures to be implemented in the commission work programme for 2017.
in writing. ‒ this resolution presents many of the challenges that the european union is currently facing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of this. in this respect, i am convinced that the union must try to promote sustainable growth and employment in order to improve our model of social market economy and implement structural reforms to modernise member states' economies and thus generate prosperity in the countries. another challenge is certainly the steady increase in the influx of people seeking asylum. i believe that the union and the member states should strengthen cooperation with the countries of transit and origin of migration flows in order to improve the rehabilitation and development of these countries and to enable citizens to live a decent life so that they are not forced to flee their own country. i voted in favour of the proposal on these particular points.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing many common and global challenges in the areas of migration, security and the economy. frustration and concern among many citizens about uncertain job prospects and lack of opportunities are also growing. it is therefore urgent to develop a programme capable of winning back the support of citizens for the european project and of strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. i share the priorities set out in the joint motion for a resolution, because they are aimed at improving the living and working conditions of european citizens, strengthening economic recovery and long-term competitiveness in order to create jobs and generate prosperity. the priorities also include focusing on climate change, energy security, strengthening the eu budget and financial instruments, including for the effective management of migrants and refugees. it is essential in this regard to implement an ambitious neighbourhood and global external action agenda, capable of safeguarding both the security of european citizens and respect for fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ the commission's 2017 work programme does not contain proposals and solutions that can effectively address the challenges facing the eu in key areas such as sustainable growth, circular economy, employment and the migration crisis. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution which supports the work of the european commission, which is proving to be totally unsuited to the needs of citizens and to the new challenges.
in writing. ‒ this very important resolution lays out the work of the commission during 2017 and i think that many of the priorities set out by the commission are the right issues to put our focus on right now. these very important priorities include: working on the recovery and the long-term competitiveness of the european economy; to ensure a consistent response to the increased inflow of refugees; and ensuring energy security. i approve of the commission’s priorities and hope that the parliament and the commission can work together on these vital issues moving forward.
in writing. ‒ europe cannot go on with ordinary answers: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a very good one. it is for this reason that i have supported the joint text presented on the european commission's work programme for 2017. the text we have approved lists some significant priorities in the areas of competitiveness, environmental sustainability, the relaunch of social europe, on which parliament has shown unity by preparing a compromise text containing a wide range of policy proposals, which we now hope the european commission will bring together in the same spirit of unity and concreteness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the strategic priorities for the commission's work programme for 2017, because i strongly shared the need expressed by the s&d group to share with the other major political groups the priorities which the ep believes should form the basis of the commission's legislative programme for 2017 and to do so before the commission itself imposes its own programme. 2017 will be a crucial year for the eu, also in light of the outcome of the recent uk referendum, hence the need for decisive legislative action by the commission that goes beyond the ordinary administration and focuses on the concerns of eu citizens, who have been faced for years with the problem of unemployment, in order to strengthen economic growth and the competitiveness of european industry, to create quality jobs and generate prosperity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. i vote in favour of this motion for a resolution of parliament, which looks at the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017. the activity represents a very sensitive stage in the planning of the priorities for the coming year, all the more so at a sensitive geopolitical moment such as this, following the outcome of the british brexit referendum. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the living and working conditions of european citizens, to increase the rate of economic recovery in europe and to reduce unemployment, poverty and inequality. it is intended to serve several purposes: to provide for the strengthening of economic recovery and competitiveness; responding to climate change and ensuring energy security; ensure a coherent response to the increase in the influx of refugees; respond to citizens' security concerns; implement an ambitious external action agenda: the european union is committed to a strong and stable neighbourhood and a global system; fair fiscal policies for adequate resources; the eu's budget and financial instruments, the economic and monetary situation, and fundamental rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ regarding the preparation of the commission work programme 2017, i voted in favour. as mentioned in resolutions, economic recovery, ensuring energy security, tackling the refugee crisis and addressing the security concerns of eu citizens are urgent and essential and will for sure be one of the primary focuses for the commission in 2017.
in writing. ‒ europe is currently facing many common and global challenges and the overlapping crises in the eu require effective solutions at european level. there is an urgent need to win back the support of europeans for the european project and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. i believe that i will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission's work programme for 2017 as i share its priorities and objectives, including improving the living and working conditions of european citizens, addressing citizens' security concerns and ensuring a coherent response to the increase in the influx of refugees.
in writing. ‒ given the challenges that the european union has faced and will face, it is clear that the response to the crisis and the resulting economic recovery differ across the member states. the european union is a global community of nations, and it is not just a political union. to this end, policies need to be developed that can improve the lives of citizens, increase the security system, generate an efficient tax system and manage the migration phenomenon, while supporting human rights. i therefore vote in favour of the work programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution tabled by the ppe, s&d and alde groups on the commission's work programme for 2017. the text sets out the priorities for the commission's agenda for the coming year. as the proposed text makes clear, the eu cannot be reduced to a mere economic system, and it is urgent to win back the support of europeans for a project that aims to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. the text focuses on a number of key pillars, which are essential for europe to achieve in the short term in order to strengthen economic recovery and competitiveness in the long term, to solve the employment problem as well as the migration issue and to guarantee energy security. it is worth remembering that the agenda-setting phase is of fundamental importance, since the points that are drawn up will tell us which direction the commission's work will take and which political initiatives will be given priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of parliament's proposals for the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017, indicating a set of strategic priorities to relaunch the union's action, in a difficult context marked by the disillusionment of citizens, national divisions and, most recently, the uk's exit from the eu. the need for a change of course is clear, one which can respond to citizens' demands for better living and working conditions and enable economic recovery, the effective management of migration flows, environmental protection and the eu's international role to be clarified. we therefore ask the commission to define a european pillar of social rights with a package of measures to create fair working conditions, starting with quality education. in the context of economic recovery, i would like to stress the crucial role of innovation and therefore the need to develop an industrial strategy that reinforces the europe 2020 objectives by leveraging the synergies between the various existing financial instruments. in the face of the divisions that have emerged between member states on how to manage the migration crisis, the only solution is to work towards cooperation based on solidarity, countering the exploitation of those who want to create divisions to weaken eu action.
in writing. i voted against this report on the commission's work programme for 2017 because it endorses, despite the disastrous results, despite brexit, the same failed strategy that has led europe into the worst crisis since the second world war. the mantra for 2017 will remain austerity, private investment and structural reforms, to which is added the worrying agenda for the completion of economic and monetary union, in line with the report of the 5 presidents, and the consolidation of the banking union based on the absurd principle of bail-in, which risks dragging behind the entire european project. no change of course, no critical reflection, no mistakes. if the strategy is not working, it is because we have to cut back, liberalize, privatize more, because we have to transfer more sovereignty to the technocrats in brussels. we believe that this is the true anti-european ideology, the one which puts the union of capital, banks and the single currency above all else. we will continue to fight for an alternative vision, one that puts economic sovereignty, the commons, public investment, work, dignity, the fight against poverty and inequality, the real economy and a radical reform of casino finance back at the centre. unfortunately, the commission, far from the needs of the citizens and sensitive to the pressures of lobbies and markets, is once again showing its inability to read reality and to protect the general interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017. i reiterate that the priorities for the s&d group must be: improving the living and working conditions of european citizens; strengthening economic recovery and creating new jobs; combating climate change; providing an effective response to the flow of refugees; improving citizens' security; developing a concrete and ambitious foreign policy; strengthening the eu budget and financial instruments; strengthening fundamental rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ in 1982, the international whaling commission introduced a moratorium on all commercial whaling, thus protecting the species from extinction. despite this, japan continued to practice such a folly, killing over 20,000 whales by 2014, bypassing the rules by introducing "whaling for scientific purposes"). the international court of justice also intervened on the matter, upholding the moratorium and ordering japan to stop its annual whaling. in the interests of the environment, marine ecosystems and biodiversity, i voted in favour of the resolution, hoping that political dialogue with the japanese government will finally put an end to such inhuman and reckless acts.
in writing. ‒ since 1982, the international whaling commission has introduced a moratorium, still in force today, on all commercial whaling. the purpose of this measure is to protect stocks from extinction by allowing them to be replenished. japan continued its hunting activities, however, killing more than 20,000 individuals by 2014. after a break due to an igc ruling in 2015, the japanese state decided last year to resume whaling under the new scientific research program on whales (newrep-a). the text adopted strongly urges japan to cease whaling and to abide by the iwc conclusions. the current situation is not only a clear violation of international law, but also a serious threat to marine ecosystems and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with some of the text, there are still some unclear passages which could open the door to criticism, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to call on japan to cease its whaling activities and to abide by the conclusions of the international whaling commission (iwc). i strongly support the maintenance of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international trade in whale products. i call for an end to the unjustified 'whaling for scientific purposes' and support the designation of vast areas of the oceans and seas as 'sanctuaries' where whaling in any form is banned indefinitely. finally, i regret that japan is blatantly ignoring the judgment of the international court of justice (icj) by resuming whaling. i believe that the catches are therefore in breach of iwc standards and international law and undermine the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted against japan's decision to resume whaling during the 2015-2016 season because i consider it an unjustified and unnecessary massacre.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the measure calling on japan to cease its whaling activities and to abide by the iwc conclusions
in writing. ‒ i believe that japan's whaling must be stopped or at least reduced as much as possible. their numbers continue to decline year by year, posing a threat to their species. i also believe that the importance of safeguarding the existence of an animal species is not in doubt. there is no longer any reason to kill large numbers of whales, as all the products that were once produced by whales alone can now be replaced by other products. japan justifies these catches by saying that they are for research, but we all know that such a high number is not necessary for scientific research. i therefore believe that the union should try to limit, if not stop, the number of catches made by japan so that the species is best safeguarded.
in writing. japan, despite an international ban on whaling, has continued to kill thousands of whales. i am very disappointed that this is the way in which the environment and animal biodiversity are being harmed. considering that japan is a strategic partner of the european union and that bilateral relations are based on shared values, including a strong belief in the need for effective multilateralism and a rules-based international order, it is essential to insist on the respect of certain key parameters for the protection of whales. i therefore support the joint motion for a resolution, which i hope will be an instrument of dialogue and discussion with japan, leading to concrete results in terms of the protection of the species.
in writing. ‒ japan, despite the international ban, continued to hunt whales for so-called scientific purposes, killing over 17,000 whales between 1986, when the ban came into effect, and 2008-2009. japan has recently resumed its whaling activities under newrep-a, after a brief interruption in 2014 when the international court of justice (icj) rejected japan's scientific whaling programme and declared that permits to kill and catch common whales do not fall under the provisions of the international convention. in the light of the negotiations for eu-japan free trade agreements (ftas), i believe it is japan's duty to respect the decision of the international court of justice (icj) and to cease all its whaling activities. in fact, existing trade policies should serve to improve animal welfare and respect and environmental protection, including the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ despite being legally bound by the global moratorium on commercial whaling, japan carelessly continues to engage in this practice by exploiting a special whaling permit for scientific research. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, hoping that this practice will be brought to an end as soon as possible, and that these precious species will be protected.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on japan's decision to resume whaling during the 2015-2016 season, tabled by my colleague renata briano, because i believe that japan's decision to resume its whaling programme is a wrong and highly negative decision, which puts biodiversity and animal health at risk. i am in fact strongly in favour of a global moratorium on whaling and a ban on the trade of whale products, and i believe that the eu can and should put some form of pressure on japan to comply with the 2014 international court of justice ruling, immediately halting the planned killing of 333 whales in 2015-16 alone. i believe that whaling cannot be justified either by scientific or cultural grounds and is a practice that is strongly condemned internationally: i therefore think that it is necessary to take political and diplomatic initiatives in all the relevant institutions to change this decision, since japan is a friend of the eu and an important trading partner.
in writing. in 1982, the international whaling commission (iwc) introduced a moratorium on commercial whaling activities, with the aim of protecting stocks from expansion. despite this, there has been an increase in the practice of whaling in japan, where more than 20,000 whales were killed by the end of 2014. these activities threaten the conservation status of whale populations and cause suffering to individual animals. parliament therefore called on japan to stop these practices and to comply with the iwc recommendations. it also stressed the need to respect the global moratorium, the ban on the marketing of whale products and the immediate need to put an end to these unfair practices. for the reasons mentioned above, i vote in favour of the parliament's proposal against japan's decision to resume whaling during the 2015-2016 season.
in writing. ‒ given the potential for whale fishing to reduce stocks and cause them to become extinct, it is worth noting that in 1982 the international whaling commission approved a moratorium, still in force, on all commercial whaling. unfortunately, japan has decided to resume the hunt on the grounds that it is necessary to carry out a scientific study of whales. since the international whaling commission does not consider that resuming whaling is useful for this purpose, i believe that japan should cease its whaling activities and abide by the iwc's conclusions. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ japan, despite the international ban, continued to hunt whales for so-called scientific purposes, killing over 17,000 whales between 1986, when the ban came into effect, and 2008-2009. japan has recently resumed its whaling activities under newrep-a, after a brief hiatus in 2014 when the international court of justice (icj) rejected japan's scientific whaling program and declared that permits to kill, and catch, common whales do not fall under the provisions of the international convention. in the light of the negotiations for eu-japan free trade agreements (ftas), i believe it is japan's duty to respect the decision of the international court of justice (icj) and to cease all its whaling activities. in fact, existing trade policies should serve to improve animal welfare and respect and environmental protection, including the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution tabled in plenary concerns japan's decision to resume whaling. i join the majority in this house in condemning this practice, which was declared illegal by the international whaling commission in 1986. nevertheless, the japanese authorities seem deaf to the ban and continue to authorize this activity under various pretexts, with catastrophic consequences for the species, considering that all this has led to the killing of more than 17 thousand specimens since the international ban came into force. in view of these figures and in the knowledge of the irreparable damage of this practice, i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ japan is legally bound by the international whaling commission's (iwc) global moratorium on commercial whaling. despite this, japan continues to engage in large-scale whaling by exploiting a loophole that allows it to have a special permit to hunt whales, mainly in antarctica, for "scientific research". the european parliament has always opposed the hunting of any cetacean, with the exception of cases of hunting by natives for clearly defined subsistence needs. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution in the hope that japan will cease its whaling activities and abide by the provisions of the iwc.
in writing. ‒ by decision no 466\2014\eu, the european parliament and the council granted a form of guarantee to the european investment bank against losses arising from operations supporting non-european investment projects, as regards belarus. however, given the autocratic nature of the belarusian government, the continuing violations of human rights and the limited freedom of the press, it is clear that no amendment of such agreements can be approved, since they must be justified by economic, social and environmental considerations. for these reasons, and because i consider that democratic values and human rights are also indispensable conditions in the economic sphere, i voted in favour of the objections contained in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objection to the granting of an eu guarantee to the eib in the event of losses to belarus. in view of the continuing serious violation of human rights and the rule of law, i thought it appropriate to support the text which raises a legitimate objection to the commission. it will not be possible to secure eib investments in the country until significant progress has been made in economic, social, environmental and political terms and in particular with regard to democracy in belarus.
in writing. ‒ the resolution we are voting on contains some passages which i do not fully agree with, and i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european investment bank in the event of losses relating to financing operations in support of investment projects outside the union, as regards belarus, on the basis of the following considerations in the motion, which i endorse: - belarus is still a centralised and autocratic state under the strict control of the president; - the violations of human rights are still widespread and systematic; - human rights defenders and journalists are monitored and often harassed - journalists are often detained, persecuted and sanctioned; - i consider that the delegated decision does not take adequate account of all aspects of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy in belarus; - recall the importance it attaches to improvements in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in belarus.
in writing. ‒ the european commission delegated decision of 15 april 2016 amends decision no 466/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of a union guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations for investment projects outside the union in the case of belarus. in accordance with rule 105 (4) of parliament's rules of procedure, mr zanni and mr valli tabled a motion for a resolution to object to the commission's delegated decision because it does not take adequate account of all aspects of the breach of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy in belarus. i therefore voted in favour of the two motions for resolutions tabled.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection on the granting of a union guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses to belarus because i consider that the objection is not sustainable, while i abstained on the other measure with the same wording because i consider that the issue requires further study.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i strongly disagree with it. the text of the resolution only mentions the negative aspects of the country, without taking into account the enormous efforts made by belarus to stop human rights violations and establish a just democracy. i have personally been to belarus several times in recent years and have been pleased to note that great strides have been made in respecting human rights and that many political opponents have also been released. i am therefore convinced that the union must not stop helping belarus, especially now that it has the potential and the will to restore order in the country and to move closer to the european model. i am convinced that the union's aid can bring considerable benefits to the country and consequently guarantee the safety of the citizens living there. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the granting of a union guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses relating to financing operations in support of investment projects in belarus. on this point, i believe that the upcoming general elections on 11 september 2016 represent an opportunity for belarus to put an end to the long-standing internal practice of electoral fraud, as well as an important step to assess the real willingness of the belarusian authorities to reconcile with their citizens and to seriously engage in a constructive dialogue with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection submitted pursuant to article 105 (4) of the delegated decision of the commission of 15 april 2016 amending annex iii to decision no 466/2014/eu of the ep and of the council on the granting of a european union guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) in the event of losses related to financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union, specifically as regards belarus. in view of the forthcoming elections, it would be premature to grant an eu guarantee to the eib to finance the construction of the ostrovets nuclear power plant, which is in fact financed by the russian federation, in breach of the un espoo and aarhus conventions, and to raise doubts about the compliance of this guarantee with eu sanctions against russia. it is also important to stress that, following the lifting of sanctions against belarus, the human rights situation remains precarious, as belarus has failed to meet all the european council's expectations regarding the improvement of civil and political rights, freedom of association and assembly, the abolition of the death penalty and the start of a process of reconciliation with its citizens and the eu.
in writing. ‒ the commission is competent to adopt the valuation criteria applicable to the methodology for determining the minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities. these are assessments and criteria which, in relation to some systemically important institutions, could, without due attention, have negative consequences for financial stability. i therefore decided to abstain from voting, as i am confident that the commission will draw up a new delegated act on this subject which takes account of the remarks made.
in writing. ‒ not agreeing with the substance of the measure, i have today decided to vote against the objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria applicable to the methodology for determining the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. ‒ i share the reasons for this motion for a resolution and therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and discussion in the house, i have voted against the motion for a resolution, as i do not consider that objections should be raised to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria applicable to the methodology for determining the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with directive 2014/59/eu, the european commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts specifying the valuation criteria applicable to the methodology for determining the minimum own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel). since the motion for a resolution contains some passages with which i do not fully agree - in particular the likely negative effects on financial stability - i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection on the determination of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities because i consider that the objection is not sustainable.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote against this objection because i believe that the commission has acted correctly in this specific case. we have recently been voting on objections to delegated acts and this is a fundamental instrument for democratic control of the european institutions, and especially of the commission, which is the body that answers to the people the least. however, in this particular case it was mr lamberts who raised this objection who, in my view, got the crab: the issue is very delicate and we must restore the balance that has been disturbed for too long by the favours of the left and the right. banks, while their systemic function is fundamental and duly recognised, must be held accountable for their actions as much as firms in other sectors. the management, and with it the entire board of directors, must be held accountable for what they do, and it should not be the taxpayer, who has already paid the costs of an inefficient banking system, who has to make up for the shortcomings. asking for deferral, asking for a smooth transition, it makes the problem bigger than it is.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the high representative for this work on the global strategy, which is a demanding exercise of synthesis and also of reflection for us who have to comment on it. the plan is ambitious and starts from the premise of a revival, a return to reality, in a picture much darker than those of 2003, on all theaters, starting with our neighborhood: the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt. the answer lies in five priorities, which are inspired by what is known as 'principled pragmatism', i.e. an unstable balance between the realities of the facts, and above all the concrete interests of the eu, and the guiding principles and values of the eu. but three prerequisites are rightly recognized as indispensable. the union must therefore be credible, responsive and united. a mission perhaps impossible with the tools you currently have. but are we really coherent and united? were we consistent and united in libya? about egypt? we see, on the one hand, the regeni spouses received in this parliament, and on the other hand, france delivering the mistral helicopter carrier, the first of two, which concludes multi-billion dollar arms supply agreements. what about the agreement with turkey, which is illegal and immoral from our point of view, to hide our limitations and our incapacity? and again on turkey's accession, which is still formally supported today, although it is now out of the question, given the choices made by erdogan. but there are still contradictions in the council between certain countries. ukraine and russia for some eastern european countries should be a problem for all of us. but the asymmetrical sanctions bill only brings some countries to their knees while others are just scalped. other member states, on the other hand, are seen as the only ones who have to bear the burden of migration and therefore it would be a problem exclusively of the mediterranean and the same member states are also excluded from the redistribution of migrants into quotas, something i would like to stress, since one of these member states currently holds the rotating presidency of the council. the real question is: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. the answer is no, because we risk putting the cart before the horse, as we always do, and i think time is running very fast.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a programme inspired by a vision: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. in the meantime, one has to wonder whether this approach to the new vision, the hope and strategy of a strong europe and many other impressions which i have read in this report are shared by the strong european powers, because there is an interview by wolfgang schäuble in the corriere della sera, which seems to me to go in exactly the opposite direction, if it is true what it is, where he says: "now is certainly not the right time to work towards greater integration of the eurozone. the first task - always schäuble's literally - is to avoid reawakening expectations which cannot be met. this is no time for visions. the situation is so serious that we must stop playing the usual european games in brussels.' on the other side of german politics, a former chancellor, mr schimdt, says that a pause in the european process is necessary and calls for greater consideration for national and regional autonomy and the defence of the identity of the member states. i think that these are reflections that perhaps the high representative should have and should take more into account, because that is what brexit means: is a criticable response, motivated by an infinite number of different interpretations, but certainly heavily influenced by a widespread sentiment. i am glad that the high representative is pleased with this euro-enthusiasm, perhaps in albania or some other balkan country. but unfortunately, among the founding countries, the peoples who represent the europe of all times, the europe of the origins, the europe which really had the original vision of what the european union should be, the sentiments are completely different. it is not clear, for example, that while we are talking about peace, we are well aware of how this choice is also inspired and perhaps even pressured to continue, through nato, to support actions that can only be described as provocative, to inspire a feeling of hostility towards russia which is not and perhaps never has been hostile towards europe and, indeed, perhaps has the same interests as ours in the field of terrorism and security. and so the speech is very simple: don't play with facts. you only have to go to ventimiglia to see the failure of your immigration policy. just go to twenty miles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is always a time when we must seriously consider how much of our ability to describe the global situation and the associated risks we are able to translate into prescriptive action. i believe that in order to achieve the objectives set out, the european union's approach needs to be improved in a number of areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the community's external trade policy to include the following areas: if the central element of the future strategy is cooperation, whether defensive or proactive, then some clear words are needed now. there is a philosophy behind this that worries me and does not convince me, based on an exaggerated realism which, in the perspective of a process of global security and stabilization that can be shared, seems to renounce the urgency of relaunching the process of democratization and the extension of rights. and it is clear that this problem, if not addressed, will sooner or later take charge of us with our backs to the wall, even more than we actually are.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me join you in welcoming our dear friends here. this is also, as you said, a concrete result of the work that sometimes we do silently but with good outcomes so i am glad to see you here. let me touch upon a few points you raised. i have noticed an overwhelming feeling of ownership in this house. that is something good on which i count because, as some of you mentioned, this has been collective work that now acquires a collective follow-up to make sure that we move from the vision into action. first of all, some asked whether we stress more the values or the interests, and whether we define more as an important element of our action in the future our values or our interests. the ground of the strategy, the clear indication of the strategy, is that our values and our interests coincide very much. there is one element in our values that the strategy underlines, which is that, to make our action consistent, we have to be true to our values first of all in our internal policies, and in our own behaviour, and this is something that echoes also some of the elements that some of you underlined. any global strategy starts at home and any external credibility is rooted in our internal strength. this is why, in these difficult moments for the european union, it is so important that we think of our common responsibilities towards our citizens and towards the rest of the world. second, as i was saying, values and interests coincide here. think of the resilience that is so much at the centre of our strategy, as was mentioned in the first intervention. resilience of societies around us is indeed an investment in our own security, and when we mention resilience of societies in the strategy we do not mention the strength of institutions only, but we mention the resilience of societies as such, which includes the space for civil society, human rights defenders and the place for every citizen in their own society. is this responding to our values only, or is this also responding to our interests? i believe, and the strategy reflects this common indication, that in this case, as well as many other cases, following our values also responds to our interests and we would be making a mistake if we were to put this in contradiction. third, i would like to refer to one point that a couple of you raised, one in a negative sense, and another one, mr danjean, in a positive one, on the so-called ‘train and equip’ or capacity-building in security and development. it is true it took us three years to come to that. yesterday the college as you might know adopted the package on capacity building on security and development, and let me tell you very clearly: this is not at all a diversion of our development tools into a security or military approach. on the contrary, this is a response to what, especially our african friends, not only governments and institutions, but also civil society, are telling us, that if in a territory, be it in the sahel, be it in nigeria, be it in the horn of africa, if you have a lack of basic security conditions for the populations, you can do all the development you want but, first of all, it does not get there, and second, it is not effective at all because the first basic right to security has also to be guaranteed. this does not mean that again we are diverting resources from one chapter to the other. this simply says that we need to use our resources in a coherent way and respond to the needs of the populations we are working with, and all the messages we are getting are in the sense that we need to also work on security as we continue to work on development. we always say there is no security without development, but there is no development without security. it is now also a matter of turning this into practice, so that is why i think that the package we adopted yesterday is something that is going to be extremely important in our capacity to implement also part of the strategy, using our different instruments, keeping in mind that they are different and covering different areas but in a coherent and integrated way. i received a specific question on part of the strategy that refers to the fact that member states can be asked or tasked to actively contribute to specific common foreign policies that are determined all together. it is a part of the strategy that was carefully thought of, as you can imagine, and it responds to the fact that, on one side, we need to keep the unity not only of the 28 member states, but also the different institutions, including this parliament, and this is what is done in the framework of the common institutions, but there might be occasions where we might want or we might need or we might want to encourage one or a group of member states or – why not? – some parliamentary delegations, to complement the work that we do all together. there can be specific added value that one or the other can bring. the important thing is that this is done in a coordinated manner with a clear, transparent link to common decisions and with common approaches and reporting back to the common instances. so i would never be afraid of initiatives, whether they are from parliamentary delegations or from a group of member states, or a group of commissioners that i lead quite often in our partner countries or in other countries. the important thing is that all of this is in a common framework and towards a common goal. we do not have to be afraid of our added value, even when it is a partial one. the important thing is that this is part of a coherent and concerted policy. here i come to the basic needs we have now and many of you mentioned that. the basic need we have now is to guarantee that the european citizens are guaranteed their right to security, and this requires the european union to act as a european union, united. there is one thing that i would not follow, one suggestion i would not follow, that one of you mentioned in your intervention – it was not mentioned in the english language, but you said there is the need to take more into account opinions that are contrary, that are opposed to working more together. you have to listen to those who say ‘the european way is not the way’. i am sorry but i am not going to hear those voices in this field because if there is one field where it is self-evident that the security of the european citizens require european action, it is our work in the world. there is no single field in our external action where one member state alone, whether it is the biggest, the strongest, the richest, the smallest, is more effective alone than all together. there is not one single thing, be it counter-terrorism, be it trade, be it development, be it migration management, there is not one single issue where we are stronger alone than stronger together. and i believe our citizens in this field see it very clearly. threats are global, opportunities are global, all of our countries, compared to the rest of the countries in the world, are small-sized countries, at the maximum medium-sized countries. we are not living in the era of empires anymore, not for a couple of centuries. and we have to wake up to reality. our strength is our european union in the world, and our partners around the world see it very clearly and recognise our strengths in the world. what we sometimes do not do is recognise this strength inside our union, but we have to come out of this sort of depression we have entered and make use of our strength, because you can be strong, but if you know you are strong you do not use your strength and it is useless. so i hope that we can indeed, as some of you said, use a strategy to turn our common vision and action into those of a self-confident, global player. i think this is the basic thing we have to do now. i have noted that some of you said that this strategy is too ambitious and unrealistic. others have said it is too realistic and not ambitious enough. we need both. we need both realism and ambition, also because we see these days that things change, internally and externally. things change in a way that was unforeseeable just a few months or years ago. the point here is whether we want to react to a change that is produced somewhere else, or if we are confident enough to try and shape the change that is happening around us, and i believe that we have all the tools, all the strength if we have the political will to do it exactly as our citizens have an interest in us doing this. thank you.
in writing. the new comprehensive strategy for the european union's foreign and security policy, which high representative federica mogherini presented to the council last week, comes at a particularly important time for the union. despite the positive vote of the united kingdom to leave the union, the european project must go forward and consolidate itself. a more cohesive union is a summary of what we must do to respond positively to threats from outside and, i would venture to say, from within our borders. as the high representative has rightly said, the challenge we now face is that of cooperation between all the member states in implementing this strategy. we must realize that we are stronger together, that the european union has immense potential, a thousand times greater than that of any single member state. and i say that in relation to china or the united states. it is clear that the eu is a much more powerful, as well as an interesting, partner for any other international actor. there is no contradiction with our national or regional identity and indeed we must also strengthen cooperation with nato and reform the united nations and the security council.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the palestinian question has been one of the most debated topics in this parliament since it began, and it is one of the topics that i have always been most concerned about. tensions and hatred are still at critical levels: on the one hand, while acknowledging the efforts of the palestinian authorities, which have led to a decline in the frequency of attacks, it must also be remembered that their perpetrators are still glorified as martyrs today; on the other hand, israel, with its massive punitive demolitions, its aggressive settlement expansion, its inadequate response to israeli ideological extremism and its restrictions on freedom of movement and more, still represents an obstacle to peace. the quartet puts all of this in black and white, which is a useful piece of the difficult road to peace. but we must make concrete progress on both sides, and conscience and justice require me to stress, as saeb erekat also said, that the responsibilities of an occupying power cannot be equated with those of an occupied country. the current israeli government, while not taking into account the palestinian responsibility, is not making every effort to revive the peace process. it 's not enough to remember and denounce it . we must ensure that israeli democracy acts in accordance with its values and not merely in accordance with its fears. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i thank my friend and colleague khan for the question. of course, if we do not have unity at this moment between what is happening in gaza and what is happening in the west bank, it is very unlikely that we will be able to sit down again and bring the parties back to the negotiating table. but it must be said that this lack of unity is also to some extent due to the international framework and the actions of the various actors, some of whom may not actually have an interest in reviving the peace process. we should therefore be more decisive in our foreign policy towards those who are sowing hatred between the two sides and urge them to make a serious contribution to healing the rift in palestinian society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, you recently said: "we still refer to the middle east peace process but the reality of the facts is such that at this moment there is no process in progress; after several decades, the situation continues to deteriorate". the european parliament has been asked to be patient so that a slow process can be followed which should bring the confidence needed to build peace. but how can the seed of peace be born in a soil that israel has plowed with periodic wars, with the confiscation of territories, the destruction of homes, the imprisonment and torture of people without even going to trial? how can peace flourish where palestinians harbor resentment, hatred and violence for the occupation they have endured and the undignified life they are forced to live? i regret to say that the quartet report just published is not quite clear on this point, especially if we really want the creation of a sovereign palestinian state based on the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital and with respect for the inalienable rights of the palestinian people. this is not to punish or strike one side more than the other, but simply to act in accordance with international and humanitarian law.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report, which was read almost immediately after the terrible massacre in bangladesh, should, in my view, force us to reflect more on the need to establish a concrete relationship and to involve china, the major regional actor, more fully on this important front, and it is therefore unthinkable that we can tackle in this context the very serious problem of containing isis and also of safeguarding our communities. and then some reflections on the consequences of brexit: i think there is an underestimation and a lack of consideration of the effects that are immediately visible on economic relations. we all know the influence of the presence in the european union of britain, which is more open to liberalization, balanced by the different interests of germany. shall we think about that? we want to talk a little about our interests from this point of view? as far as our interests are concerned, i repeat that we are absolutely opposed to china being recognised as a market economy! he has no right to receive this status. it would be the death knell of entire sectors of our production. we cannot talk about china without emphasizing the strong opposition to counterfeiting, which is an economic war on our production. we must speak clearly about these things. in the last parliamentary term, something was done with the proposal on the safety of chinese products, which are often dangerous, and for which the indication of origin was mandatory. what has happened to this proposal which was widely supported by this parliament? it was never mentioned again. as the issue of dumping is not sufficiently emphasized: we prefer to blame poor uzbekistan, which is making progress in the use of labour in cotton production. i think there's a lot to reconsider. let us just think about the fact that the recent summit between president xi and putin resulted in a great deal of agreement on the steel economies and industry. what about us? what do we say? are we there? do we care? we're staying out of this. weak and incomplete is this report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, mr mogherini, join those who have expressed their appreciation for this new strategy. the crucial moment our institutions are living through calls for strong and clear positions more than ever. the evolution china is facing and the gradual change in its economic model can provide an opportunity to strengthen our relations, which also contributes to a greater global engagement of china on the most important challenges. environment, social challenges, respect for human rights, raising safety standards, the rule of law, international trade rules, intellectual property: these are all areas where only china's active involvement can bring about tangible results. in this context, parliament has spoken out against the recognition of the status of a market economy, not in a hostile attitude towards china but in order to create overall conditions of fairness and equality of conditions, which can guarantee the smooth functioning of trade. the member states must be involved in a relationship based on the uniformity of the messages. i too want to stress, as other colleagues have already done, that only by genuinely european action can we make our voices heard and be more authoritative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the relationship with china is too important a game to be trapped by national logic which, instead of solving problems, merely delays solutions.
madam president, i shall be echoing in my speech my colleague mr kelama, who has mentioned the issue of human rights. she's been down here a few times, and i personally consider her a key. i represent the citizens of the czech republic, a country whose first president was václav havel, who strongly promoted and defended the doctrine of human rights in international politics. we in the former post-communist countries are particularly sensitive to the way human rights are being treated, and this is not just one of the chapters we mention here. it's a very important thing, mrs. mogherini, at least for me. i understand on the one hand that we need an investment agreement with china, that we will trade with china, the chinese president is visiting european countries. he was also in the czech republic, where, as we know, his visit has sparked a huge social debate about whether or not we should be cheating china for potential trade benefits. i'm part of a society that believes we should trade with china as equals, and not cheat china. so please, let's not throw away the principle of human rights, let's promote human rights, let's raise awareness about prisoners being removed organs, about executions in china, about freedom of speech and freedom of assembly still not being relevant in china. and let me make one more remark. even with the theory of the double china, let's not forget taiwan, which is an extremely important trading partner for the czech republic, for example.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation between the european union and china is already considerable but it needs to be further developed. there are many opportunities for enhanced cooperation between the european union and china, including the conclusion of an ambitious investment agreement, china's contribution to the european investment plan, joint research and innovation activities and linking with the eurasian continent, through a physical and digital network, to better facilitate trade and investment flows and people-to-people contacts. in the longer term, and only after the necessary reforms to ensure a level playing field for domestic and foreign businesses and a real improvement in respect for human rights have been implemented, more ambitious goals could be envisaged, such as a global free trade agreement. in this respect, china needs to significantly and verifiably reduce its industrial overcapacity to prevent unfair competition from having a negative impact. i congratulate high representative mogherini on this new strategy, which also serves to strengthen the role of the european union as a global actor.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative mogherini, it has already been said that this is a tool for monitoring and also for consolidating the leadership position which the european union has and should continue to have in the field of human rights in the world, a leadership position which is unfortunately jeopardised by certain internal policies, certain actions by the member states, which are quite questionable. what can be done? what could have been done better? surely a better, more thorough monitoring and reporting of what happened in 2015 than what we have. 2015 was certainly a terrible year, with barbaric acts of all kinds and attacks on human rights defenders, members of civil society, bloggers and journalists, which we hope will decrease in the following years. unfortunately, we have to improve our relations and dialogue with third countries, which focus on trade but which often and willingly derogate too easily from human rights clauses, in a very simplistic way, perhaps to do a favour to multinationals which violate them in third countries. we should be a little more decisive on this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of this report, we must not allow it to be seen as a list of events which fail to present a comprehensive picture of the strengths and weaknesses of european action. and that would be negative. i only focus on what needs to be strengthened. the report should provide an assessment of the respect of human rights clauses in trade agreements and the use and results of the funds dedicated to development aid granted by the european union. it would also be useful to have a detailed assessment of the application of the 'more for more' principle, where it has worked and where it has not. in the chapter on the migration crisis, it seems to resolve itself with a list of conferences, good intentions and conventions to be ratified or ratified. but perhaps a critical reflection on the european union's actions in the field of migration policy, which has been largely focused on agreements with partners who do not respect human rights, would be useful. finally, there is a chapter on the fight against terrorism, and here too i think it is worth pointing out that in many cases there has been a considerable restriction of human rights in favour of the security approach, which has resulted in actions ranging from the restriction of citizens' freedoms to the reintroduction of the death penalty, as well as the arbitrary use of the pretext of the fight against terrorism as a tool for internal political repression. in the end, perhaps we need to change the approach a little bit in two directions: the european union is also committed to the development of a more concrete approach to be useful and to improve the instruments in european and political action to put human rights back at the centre.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-commissioner, i entirely agree with your observation about the risk we are taking. the great crisis, both economic and social, has put many rights on the back burner. in fact, rights are being squeezed by the crisis: citizenship, with the instrumental argument that there must be security for citizens; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not only a policy of social cohesion, but also a policy of social cohesion. i believe that the european union's initiative must be strengthened, as you have said, and that we must also go so far as to inhibit relations with those who do not respect these fundamental rights. i am very grateful to you, because you have reminded us of the tragedy, the barbarity that has been committed against giulio regeni. i know you met your parents with great sensitivity. i think the truth about the regeni murder is very important to revive a shared idea of rights. that is why i ask you to continue the work you have begun, so that relations of this dimension of our world will have a different character in the near future with egypt.
in writing. italy will only be able to play a leading role in the un security council for half of its term, starting from 1 january 2017: the italian government has once again failed to defend its country and its interests on the international scene. the compromise reached is a penalty for my country, which is clearly among the leading contributors in terms of forces, missions and men employed. the burning defeat suffered - because that is what it is all about, no matter how much one wants to wrap the 'half-seat' shared with the netherlands in gift paper, even if we were the taillights of europe - shows the mistakes made by the government, the tones that did not convince, the solidarity especially european that went to others instead of us. and one wonders why europe has overwhelmingly supported the netherlands at the un. asia and the caribbean have turned their backs on us, while our only "friends" are the african bloc, the middle east and latin america. in conclusion: even at the un, italy, the founding country of the eu, has to be content with crumbs...
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing phenomena of corruption, the increasingly close links between multinational companies and tax advisory firms aimed at evading or avoiding taxes; the unwarranted activity of certain companies which, by their unlawful behaviour, endanger the health of consumers or cause incalculable damage to the environment: these are just a few examples of the harmful phenomena which society must combat with all the tools at its disposal. state authorities alone do not always succeed, because certain phenomena are by definition hidden and difficult to discover. the cooperation of citizens must be promoted, and they must be encouraged to report any misconduct, irregularities and illegal activities of which they become aware. to do this, it is urgent that the european union introduce common legislation to discipline and protect whistleblowers. the recent conviction of the luxleaks sources reminds us that there is no time to lose.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard, we are asking for a horizontal directive to protect courageous people who practice their profession with great responsibility, awareness and even a very high level of professionalism. but i 'd like to say more: they are people who have an extraordinary sense of civic responsibility, because they have not been protected in any way. it must be said that without the work of these whistleblowers, the european institutions would not be discussing today with the passion and even the determination that we recognize in the commission itself, issues such as tax evasion and avoidance, the need for transparency, which is lacking in the behaviour of so many subjects, individuals, as the panama papers show, or even multinational companies, as in the case of luxleaks. these scandals undermine the credibility of institutions if they are not attacked, if those responsible are not punished and if those who helped to identify those responsible are not protected and defended. there is an ethical sense from which the action of the commission and the european institutions can never and must never depart. now, i believe that the common good or the interest of a community must always be protected. the people we want to protect with the directive are people who have shown that they are clear about the value of this objective. for this reason, we must have a solution to protect them and we must have it quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened last week struck me particularly because two people who had shown their intellectual honesty by denouncing what are scandalous practices such as luxleaks, which we have all known for some time, were sentenced to one year (deltour) and nine months (halet) respectively, in the face of a policy which supports a president of the commission like juncker, who for twenty years has continued to perpetrate certain policies in luxembourg. so tell me, where's the justice? where can a european citizen see justice at this moment, if the institutions are silent and do not enact legislation to help these people who are making progress for humanity, unlike those who encourage certain evasive schemes, as president juncker has done for twenty years, not making progress for humanity. when people like deltour, halet, falciani and assange are considered heroes and are not condemned, then the citizens can believe in this union. we believe in a different europe.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the regulation of the european communities is a step in the right direction. however, certain essential elements will have to be taken into account when finalising the work to ensure that these objectives are actually achieved and that there are no negative repercussions on the real economy. firstly, the commission will have to make sure that the basle committee follows what the central bank governors responsible for supervision said last january, namely that the reform should be completed without significantly increasing the overall capital requirements of the banking system. the commission will also have to ensure that the basel committee draws up this reform package on the basis of a comprehensive and transparent analysis and takes into account, in its calibration, not only the overall effects but also the distribution of the impact on the different business models, avoiding negative spillovers, especially on commercial banks. these banks, despite the difficulties of recent years, have shown greater strength than investment banks and have been key to supporting the economic and employment recovery and it would be wrong to penalise them with a sharp tightening of capital requirements, especially if not justified by an actual increase in riskiness. i therefore hope that the commission will make sure that the calibration of operational risk is not too punitive for commercial banks. finally, the commission will have to work to ensure that the reduction of the volatility of the value of risk-weighted assets, which was a primary objective of the basel reform package, retains its centrality and that a level playing field is ensured between banks using internal valuation models and banks using standard models, for example by limiting the results of internal models downwards and anchoring them to those of standard models.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, small and mediumsized enterprises represent more than 90% of the industrial fabric of our union and they need funding to grow. that is why, mr vice-president, we want to know how the negotiations in basle are proceeding on the revision of one of the main instruments governing access to bank loans, which is the standardised approach to credit risk. these are negotiations which, as we know, should technically be concluded as early as september, with the possibility of an increase in capital requirements for banks. and let 's be clear about this . we are not opposed to the consolidation of the banking sector, which should have more capital to deal with future crises on its own, although i think it would be appropriate for capital requirements to be calibrated proportionately to the riskiness and size of the institutions. that said, we must absolutely avoid that the consolidation of the banking sector comes at the expense of the real economy and the role of the european commission in basle is crucial to support a strong policy line in favour of growth. i can only agree with what mr ferber and mr gualtieri have said: we ask the commission to ensure that this review does not harm small and mediumsized enterprises and the real economy, but only allows the banks to continue to raise funds and then to make loans. that is why, a few months ago, we defended in this house the ems supporting factor which the commission intends to support. we asked commissioner hill, who, i remember, has done an excellent job of reviving our economy and the well-being of our fellow citizens: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take them up. for the same reasons, we are here today to defend the political priority of reconciling growth and consolidation, in other words, flexibility and rigour. we do not want the revision of the standardised approach to credit risk to be carried out in a bureaucratic way, simply by applying formulas and parameters. unfortunately, mr ferber is right, we apply certain decisions automatically, without evaluating the consequences, often, i repeat, with a bureaucratic approach. we must ensure a future for the real economy in europe, even if it means taking risks if necessary, with foresight and courage. without industry, without enterprise, there is no employment and without jobs, there is no growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, banks are companies and cannot think of escaping the normal rules of the market to which all companies are subject. the bank, like a company that makes spoons or chairs, produces products and has to sell them. in order to sell them, it must have a capital base which allows it to be economically and financially balanced, but it cannot do without taking risks, because the risk is delivered within the normal market size. if there were no risks for banks and only for companies, banks and companies would not be able to talk. so we want the bank to be safe on the one hand, and therefore the risk to be weighed but not to be cancelled out, so that in the dialogue with the companies that take risks every day to generate value, we can play on equal terms. we have an entrepreneurial fabric which, as the honourable members have pointed out, in europe, especially in the small and mediumsized enterprises, generates about 80% of employment. my country, italy, is being dragged towards one side, that of northern italy, where almost all the businesses are small and mediumsized and need banks that are fairly efficient, that are absolutely balanced in terms of capital, but that are willing to look at the ability of companies to produce value, not just able to look at their internal condition. we need a banking management that looks at the quality of the business to be financed and that finances what is worthwhile and eliminates what is not. so, risk sharing is the essential element for the system to hold.
in writing. i believe that the basel revision proposal represents an unfinished but positive step forward in the absurd problem of disparities and asymmetries in the internal risk assessment models that banks can use to calculate capital requirements. partial and late revision, which must be supported in any case. in fact, giving banks the possibility to rely on internal rating models not only creates complexity and difficulties in assessing and comparing the actual risk exposure of banks, thereby hindering transparency and supervisory activity, but above all opens the way to manipulation of the models, thanks to which large investment banks have often succeeded in lowering their capital requirements. however, i cannot help criticizing the basle approach which, by focusing all its attention on credit risk and the capitalisation of individual banks, neglects the most important aspect from the point of view of the stability of the financial system, namely exposure to derivatives and speculative activities with enormous systemic risk. unfortunately, until we limit leverage, reduce interconnectedness, curb speculation and address the problem of too-big-to-fail banks, the root causes of the 2008 financial crisis, nothing can reassure us of the threat of a systemic crisis of even more catastrophic proportions than the previous one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for this objection, which calls, among other things, for the commission to introduce restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the latter represent the largest group of consumers. the precautionary principle is in place. there is no safe level of caffeine consumption, which, as noted, causes sleep disturbances and behavioral problems in children and adolescents. in the case of long-term regular use, if not abuse, in addition to the high risk of obesity due to the high concentration of sugars in energy drinks. it is therefore right to oppose the adoption of this draft commission regulation, which is useless and which, in particular, introduces four new claims on caffeine, including the text 'caffeine contributes to increased mental clarity and helps to improve concentration'. this is a potentially dangerous message for children. finally, for the sake of clarity and consistency, i would like to reiterate on behalf of the italian delegation of the s&d group our opposition to the concept of nutritional profiles, which some amendments which we do not share seek to reintroduce and which this house itself has already recently rejected. nutritional profiles have no real scientific basis: are not based on the actual amounts of fat, salt and sugar consumed. there is no such thing as good food or bad food by law: we need to focus on food education.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is very important that we approve today this report on the monitoring of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the european union, which, i recall, is binding and is an integral part of the union's legal order. it provides not only in article 3 for the prohibition of all forms of discrimination but also in article 21 for the right to education, inclusive training, cultural and civic life, sport and creative activities. it is unacceptable that in many school systems in some member states there are still situations of segregation in education and training, rejection of students with disabilities and also a lack of family support services, guidance and educational support which, i remind you, must be personalised and implemented throughout life. i would like to remind you - and i am very pleased to do so - that next year in italy we will be celebrating the 40th anniversary of the law which has enabled handicapped children to be enrolled in all schools of all levels and grades. of course, there is still much to be done, but this is an important fact. we ask in our opinion - which has been received, and i thank the rapporteur very much for that - that european mobility and educational exchange and volunteering programmes be open to disabled boys and girls and that the additional financial support already provided for in the erasmus+ programme be strengthened. the accessibility of disabled people to communication, culture and information technologies appropriate to different disabilities is also fundamental and we call for the incorporation of the marrakesh treaty for the blind. it is essential to establish a structured dialogue with representative associations and to involve them in the development of implementation policies and the convention, starting with the accessibility act.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the first thing i want to do this morning is to thank mrs stevens, because with this job she is one of the few times that we bring people here in the european parliament who will benefit from this convention and its implementation. you have this credit because the people with whom you have developed this work are exactly the people who will benefit from it and can say: "we've entered these rooms, which very often keep us out". i am extremely happy about this because the subject, as well as this subject, is close to my heart and i am glad that our position is one of those times when it is shared. it is sometimes strange to find that parliament shares such common positions on certain subjects, when we seem so far apart from each other. instead, the rights of people with disabilities must be a priority, a commitment that does not make concessions, that does not allow any kind of deprivation, that sees us committed and united to guarantee them. unfortunately, austerity and the economic crisis have, alas, put a heavy burden on people with disabilities. but we have spoken of the need to support independent living, concepts which, unfortunately, are still far from being fully realised in italy. in italy it is still difficult to talk about care givers, deinstitutionalization, support for independent living. let this be a commitment, let this be a starting point for the full implementation of this convention in our country. architectural barriers are still a reality, unfortunately, in schools, and the first commitment is to support education, to include children with disabilities in the world of education so that they become a resource. people with disabilities must be an extraordinary resource, a resource for which our commitment must be worth whatever effort we have to make. this work, i believe, is proof that no amount of commitment is ever enough when it comes to people who are not vulnerable. we're used to thinking of these people as vulnerable. these people are an extraordinary resource, and let me say that this work, today, i would like to dedicate to my grandson, diego.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first major human rights treaty of the new millennium. it is a very important document for promoting a new culture of disability, but the rules alone are not enough. we need policies, cultural policies first of all, because the culture of rights must be reconquered every day. unfortunately, persons with disabilities still face a wide range of obstacles to their progress towards equal opportunities, independence and full social and economic integration. and although the union has responded to this challenge by adopting a series of legal and political initiatives to remove these obstacles, there is still a long way to go. the european union must strictly implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is necessary to give concrete answers to the many citizens and their families who too often suffer in silence under conditions of great hardship.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, when we talk about albinos in malawi and in the region in general, we are talking about a truly absurd situation, since they are suffering all kinds of violence, mutilation, murder and they have no peace even after death because, as mrs heubuch said, parts of their bodies are sold because they are believed to have magical value and to act as amulets. furthermore, we read that women are raped because it is believed that sex with them cures aids. this is a very tragic situation we're talking about. we have economic relations with malawi: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. let us be resolute in calling on the authorities to intervene and protect this minority.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the silent tragedy of albinos in africa takes various forms, as has been said, first of all physical, with violence and mutilation perpetrated because of popular beliefs that attribute ghostly powers to their body parts. but persecution also results in discrimination in society, with albino children being isolated because they are considered disabled or unable to continue their education. and this means that their education is abruptly interrupted, their access to work and to better life prospects is restricted. i believe that with this resolution we are calling on the government of malawi and other african states to punish severely those responsible for the heinous crimes against albinos and to launch an education and awareness campaign which overcomes superstition towards people affected by alpinism and allows them to be fully integrated into society, and we believe that the european union must exert the necessary pressure to achieve these objectives.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. we are here today to discuss a very sensitive subject: there are so many people who are born that way, without pigmentation, and who are subjected to a series of inhuman practices and stigmatization every day. so we are here to ask the government, not just of malawi, but of all the countries where these practices occur, to implement and invest in an inclusion policy, a policy that must have a very strong plan and strategy against all discrimination. i believe that each person should be considered for what he is; each person must be considered for his or her capacity, for his or her human capital. that is why we are appealing to the malawian government to say that the albinos will not be forgotten, nor abandoned to a sad fate of death, and they are with us today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in malawi people with albinism are being killed and mutilated and their body parts are being sold for ritual use. amnesty international also denounces the slaughter of albinos in africa, where albinos are killed and cut up to make talismans used in traditional medicine. last april, according to ngo reports, was the bloodiest month, with at least eighteen people killed. the humanitarian organization, in its report we are not animals to be hunted or sold, claims that since 2014 there has been an increase in kidnapping and murder cases, forcing albinos to live in constant fear. the european union and the international community must take all possible action to force the government of the republic of malawi and the other african republics to ensure effective protection for albino people and to ensure their rights to life and personal security.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i share the surprise of our colleague any time that we hear people saying what the european union should or should not do and then saying that it should not exist. i see that contradiction and actually see the contradiction of their sitting in this hemicycle – that is probably the first contradiction they are living. anyway, i would like to thank you for this unanimous work on a very important issue. over the past two years, malawi has faced a very worrying increase in human rights abuses against people with albinism, including children. these abuses include violent attacks, as you have all described, abductions and killings. such violence exposes very deep-rooted problems of discrimination against people with albinism across many parts of sub-saharan africa, not only in malawi, but also in tanzania, mozambique, burundi and other countries. on 13 june we marked international albinism awareness day, which was proclaimed by the un general assembly. that was an important step to raise awareness, together with the recent appointment of the first-ever un independent expert on the enjoyment of human rights by persons with albinism. we support this kind of global awareness steps, we actively support them and look forward to working together with the united nations in this educational and awareness-raising campaign, not only malawi but also in other countries. in line with these international commitments we need to take all possible measures to provide greater protection to persons with albinism at risk and to investigate crimes committed on that basis. the prejudice at the root of these discriminations needs to be addressed and confronted very openly, so we constantly urge the governments of the countries where these attacks take place to raise awareness throughout society regarding persons with albinism, including at the family level, and to enforce respect for their rights and dignity. comprehensive strategies to eradicate discriminatory practices against persons with albinism are needed, including to ensure that they have adequate access to health care, social services, employment and education. this issue does not only relate to malawi, as i said, but to many parts of africa. it is then important that countries also share best practices in protecting and promoting the rights of persons with albinism and work together for the prevention of cross-border crimes related to this issue. the european union, through our delegation, is working and will continue to engage with governments and with the civil-society actors in these countries. some people believe that there is not much we can do to change social behaviour, prejudice, superstitions. i do not agree. norms and attitudes can evolve if we embrace a cooperative approach to our partners, if we work together with them and try to change on a daily basis the roots of a behaviour that can and must be changed.
in writing. albinism is a congenital disease that affects about one in every 20,000 people worldwide, but its incidence rate is particularly high in sub-saharan countries. subject to discrimination, aggression and continuous forms of persecution, albinos are generally excluded from social life because of beliefs and superstitions. despite the international prominence of the issue and the adoption of a number of laws in some of the countries concerned, killings, kidnappings and other forms of human rights violations do not seem to be ending. the european union should not only engage in further awareness-raising campaigns, but also provide active support to civil society and local authorities to combat such persecution.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, bahrain, no need to go around, has a significant geopolitical role: the european union has a strong military presence in the region, and it is home to the us fifth fleet, but also to important naval bases for some european states, including the uk, which has a special relationship with the al khalifa monarchy, to which it sells weapons. we are here for the third time in two years to make resolutions on bahrain, emergency resolutions which are unfortunately not being followed up, probably because trade relations, the geopolitical role, the strategic role of bahrain is more important than the continuing violations. nabeel rajab is back in jail and is forbidden to dissent from the policies of the al khalifa monarchy. we must try to use this commercial power to demand that at least basic human rights be respected. it is absolutely unacceptable that our resolutions are not being followed up.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been exactly one year since the european parliament last adopted a resolution on the case of nabeel rajab and we are still at the beginning. this case, like the others, is part of a wider crackdown on civil society and political and religious opposition and testifies to the delicate political situation, especially in the broader context of iran-saudi arabia relations. the shia opposition group al-wefaq has been banned and its political leader, the shia sheikh ali salman, sentenced to nine years and the ayatollah sheikh issa qassim has been stripped of his citizenship for serving foreign interests and promoting sectarianism and violence. as we know, there are deep divisions in bahrain between the majority shia population and the sunni elite, and the country's financial and military dependence on saudi arabia severely limits its action. we are therefore trying with this resolution to ask the government to reverse course and i think we too need to start a hard-fought confrontation with some of the gulf countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that we have discussed the situation in bahrain. the situation has not changed, the government's persecution of the shia community continues, and at least 97 people have died since 2011 as a result of torture and ill-treatment in detention. the decision of the minister of justice to suspend all activities of the islamic society al-wefaq, the main opposition group in the country, is also cause for concern. un secretary-general ban ki-moon has also recently expressed concern about the intimidation of activists who peacefully defend and promote human rights and those who want to legitimately exercise their rights to freedom of expression and association. if we do not act decisively and decisively, there is a risk that this small region of bahrain could become a very dangerous fire, fuelled by the repression of the shiites.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again discussing the rohingya minority a year later: we adopted a resolution on this on 21 may last year. unfortunately, the conditions of the rohingya people have not changed, in fact, they have probably gotten worse and are taking the form and scale of a genocide probably in myanmar. the european union could certainly play a more active role in the dialogue with myanmar, but also with the neighbouring countries, which are turning away refugees when there are arrests on the other side. the rohingya are people who are exposed to human trafficking. dg echo has done a good job providing humanitarian aid worth eur 70 million since 2010. we should put pressure on the new government to try to change the pace with this minority and finally protect this landless and peaceless people.
author of the book. mr president, the situation seems to me to be quite clear and obvious. there's no point in going back over it. we must find a solution to this situation, but it is not just the rohingya who are living in terrible conditions and many are fleeing to the borders of bangladesh. there are other problems we must deal with. i had the opportunity to visit some camps on the thai-myanmar border and we have open problems there too. i think there's a couple of things that need to be done. firstly, to press the current government of myanmar, which is in a democratic transition, to say that the current situation of the rohingya in apartheid is unacceptable and secondly, i wonder and wonder whether it is possible for the european union to work towards a new memorandum between myanmar and thailand to also solve the problem of the many camps that are present in thailand of the burmese population that must be returned to the country.
in writing. ‒ in a 2011 resolution, the un general assembly gave the eu the power to speak for its states, even though it cannot be a member of the organisation. the report, which contains the recommendations which parliament wishes to make to the next general assembly, deals with a number of important issues: the european union is also prepared to take action to help the people of yemen, from general disarmament to the need to counter terrorist propaganda to the question of human rights and the possibility of humanitarian action in yemen. the development of shared strategies and policies, but above all supported by the entire international community, is of fundamental importance for the achievement of the main european objectives. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in september, the glass house will host the 71st session of the un general assembly. in a particularly difficult year for the international community, the eu can use this opportunity to bring its priorities to the forefront of the world debate. the kovatchev report, which i have supported today, sets out the main lines of action which it should pursue on this occasion, touching on a number of fundamental issues: the european council welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the commission's communication on the future of the union. these are complex issues that require coherent action on a global scale; the eu therefore has a strong interest in solutions to these problems being found in a multilateral context. firstly, the work of the un must be revitalised, with better coordination and coherence between all the un institutions, while at the same time the selection process for the next secretary-general, whose candidates must be presented to the general assembly, must be made more transparent. europe must take charge of this process and be at the forefront of promoting a reform of the organization which will see it given a seat on the security council.
in writing. ‒ despite some interesting points, the kovatchev report presents several critical points on which i preferred to express my opinion by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ it is more important than ever to ensure that the union plays an active role on the international scene, and in particular in the largest forum for global cooperation, the united nations. in line with this, just a few months after the opening of the 71st un general assembly, the european parliament today endorsed its recommendations to the council on the union's priorities for the next session of the assembly. among the priorities stated by parliament is first and foremost the commitment to the maintenance and restoration of peace and security at global level, in particular through multilateral action, diplomacy, especially in a preventive manner, and the promotion of political and peaceful solutions to ongoing conflicts. closely linked to this is, of course, the need to deal decisively, effectively and in a coordinated manner with the global threat posed by terrorism, and to provide equally adequate and shared responses to the problems related to migration. it is also essential to continue investing in the promotion of the rule of law, democracy and the capacity to respond to other challenges, such as those posed by climate change, with a view to an effective multilateral system, within which the union can and must be at the forefront.
in writing. ‒ the fundamental principles underpinning the european union's external action are based on the promotion of dialogue, inclusive multilateralism and respect for human rights as universal, indivisible, independent and indivisible postulates. in this context, the united nations is the natural framework for effectively promoting these principles on a global scale, fostering cooperation and exchange of views, which can facilitate efforts to find peaceful diplomatic solutions to the existing dramatic crises and conflicts. within this framework, the european union must act with the awareness that comes from its history and its geopolitical and cultural weight, playing without hesitation a leading role on all crucial issues, in order to increase the influence of its soft power at world level. i am thinking, for example, of the resolution of the conflicts still ongoing in africa and the middle east, or of the need for a reform of the united nations itself which is fairer, more balanced and more representative of the current international balances. i am thinking of promoting closer and more transparent international tax cooperation, which will limit the emergence of trade distortions and social dumping, which are the source of great injustices and inequalities.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, which i find well-articulated and rich in valuable insights, especially on the european union's long-term objective of having a seat on an enlarged security council. the european union is strongly committed to multilateralism and to intensifying cooperation with the united nations. the european commitment stems from the values and convictions that are duly confirmed in the priorities identified in the report, such as peace and security, the fight against terrorism, disarmament, migration flows, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development and climate change. a multilateral system based on universally shared norms and values is, in my view, the most appropriate instrument for effectively addressing the many global crises and challenges. the eu's security environment is marked by growing instability and the so-called secular and peacekeeping force provided for in articles 43, 46 and 47 of the un charter has never found its desired application. the 71st session of the united nations general assembly could provide a good opportunity to lay the foundations for a concrete modernisation of what my distinguished compatriot antonio cassese called 'realistic legal mechanisms'.
in writing. ‒ the delegation of the five star europe movement voted in favour of the own-initiative report drawing up the recommendations to the council in relation to the next session of the united nations general assembly. the recommendations are fully acceptable as they concern the engagement on issues related to peace and security, the fight against terrorism, migration, human rights, the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system. finally, the call for the implementation of the sustainable development goals set out in agenda 2030 is fully supported.
in writing. ‒ the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance, centred on the united nations, is an integral part of the eu's external policy, and member states should make every effort to coordinate their actions in all international fora: the commission's proposal for a recommendation is a good guideline for strengthening the three pillars of the united nations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also calls for the non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament of weapons and the global abolition of the death penalty, with due regard for the life and safety of all. it is also desirable to highlight the importance of women in peace processes and to encourage their representation at all decision-making levels, including the leadership of the united nations. finally, the call for a human rights-centred approach, with particular attention to the situation of children and migrants, is appropriate. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 'report on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly' because i believe it is essential to promote cooperation between the european union and the united nations in the definition of new security strategies, peacekeeping and crisis management. i also believe that the member states of the european union are called upon to make every effort to coordinate their actions within the bodies and agencies of the united nations system.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this proposal, which is simply intended to make some recommendations to the european council. these are very difficult times for the security of citizens and their fundamental rights. we are living in a difficult time in which the security of citizens is no longer guaranteed, in which terrorism is claiming countless victims. i am convinced that the european union must do even more to limit these problems as much as possible and to try to maintain peace and security in the countries affected by these phenomena. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation to the european council.
in writing. ‒ the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance is an integral part of the eu's external policy. the european strategy is based on universal norms and values to be honoured and respected in order to be able to deal with emerging global crises, challenges and threats, including at the level of information and digital systems. the european union must therefore play a proactive role in contributing effectively to the work of the united nations with comprehensive proposals for peace and security, development, human rights, democracy and an international order based on respect for the rule of law. the eu member states are called upon to make every effort to coordinate their actions within the organs and bodies of the united nations system. the eu security environment is increasingly unstable and precarious due to a wide range of challenges, including violent conflict, terrorism, organised crime, unprecedented migration flows and climate change, which cannot be addressed at national level and require regional and global responses. i voted in favour of the report which also recognises the importance of respect for internationally recognised borders and the need to act against violations of international law.
in writing. ‒ the increasing complexity of the global security environment requires a careful review of the un model of multilateralism. the eu, with its member states, is the largest financial contributor to the un system and supports its policies and objectives. i therefore support the european parliament's recommendation to the council that the un should be able to respond effectively to the challenges that are emerging in the european and global context. in the context of safeguarding peace and security, i hope that the un will continue to support multilateral efforts to find lasting peaceful solutions to the conflicts in the middle east and north africa. in the context of the current hybrid threats of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, i believe that the eu and the un should strengthen cooperation in combating terrorist propaganda and terrorist financing, in a manner consistent with the un global counter-terrorism strategy and in line with the un general assembly resolution on 'effects of the use of weapons and ammunition containing depleted uranium'. finally, i support closer cooperation between the un and the eu to strengthen policy coherence for development within the un, in order to complement the commitment to the implementation of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved a recommendation to the council ahead of the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, reaffirming the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance, centred on the united nations. in an increasingly unstable and precarious security environment and convinced that a multilateral system based on universal rules and values to be respected is the most appropriate instrument for dealing with global crises and challenges, i voted in favour of this recommendation. i believe that the eu must cooperate effectively with the whole of the un system in areas on which international stability and security depend, such as the fight against terrorism or the management of migration, preventing irregular migration and combating the smuggling of migrants. i hope that the eu will play an increasingly proactive role in strengthening a united nations organisation that can contribute to peace and security, development, the protection of human rights (as universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated), democracy and an international order based on the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this 71st session because i believe it is important to ensure cooperation between the eu and the un in the definition of new security strategies, in peacekeeping and in crisis management, in order to continue to work at multilateral level to find solutions to conflicts and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from the report: the commission is not proposing anything new and is merely putting forward suggestions to the council on a number of subjects.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the joint text adopted on the political priorities that the eu will have to consider at the next un general assembly. europe must continue to assert its voice as a global democratic actor and i therefore consider the issues highlighted in our text to be very important, among which i would particularly highlight: the role of women in peace processes and the need for adequate representation in decision-making processes, children's rights, with particular reference to the issue of migrant children, attention to the emerging issue of climate refugees, support for increasingly effective eu coordination within multilateral institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly because i strongly believe in the need for a system based on multilateralism and global governance with the un as its pivot. i am equally convinced that the eu has a duty to play an active role in the implementation of a strong structure within the united nations in order to contribute effectively to the spread of peace, stability, the rule of law and respect for human rights and democracy. as an international actor, the european union also has the task of supporting the work of task forces engaged in the difficult search for solutions for peace in syria, yemen, libya or western sahara and of continuing to provide humanitarian, political and financial assistance to end conflicts in hotspots of the world, as well as to cooperate effectively in combating terrorism, the illegal trade in arms and ammunition and trafficking in human beings. finally, i share the need for cooperation between the un and the eu in taking strong action to combat climate change by implementing the cop21 agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. the report makes a number of recommendations to strengthen security, promote development, combat terrorism and support the un. in particular, the council is recommended to: continue to support multilateral agreements in order to establish political and peaceful solutions to the conflicts in north africa and the middle east; reiterate its condemnation of terrorism and strengthen its support for actions aimed at eliminating terrorist organisations; to provide more support to unhcr in the implementation of its international mandate for the protection of refugees; to reiterate the global and universal nature of human rights as agreed by the un, while continuing to promote the rights of minorities and children; the european union is also committed to improving its coordination with the un institutions.
in writing. ‒ the united nations and the european union share many common objectives and values. the eu should support the un in its initiatives, including the search for a diplomatic solution to armed conflicts, the promotion of human rights, and the prevention of terrorist attacks and the dissemination of violent propaganda. cooperation will help to find a global answer to these problems.
in writing. ‒ the united nations is an irreplaceable forum for democracy worldwide. i also believe that the un must be reformed and that its specialized agencies must work in a more transparent way. i also hope that the eu will soon have a permanent seat on the security council and thus be able to use its full potential, which has not yet been fully exploited, in the area of the common foreign and security policy. in its report, the european parliament makes recommendations to the council with a view to the 71st session of the united nations general assembly on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, through the report presented by mr kovatchev, has addressed a proposal for a recommendation to the un general assembly. this proposal covers a number of areas, all of which are highly sensitive at international level, such as the fight against terrorism, the question of migration and climate change. these are current challenges that transcend national borders, and we can only respond effectively to them by strengthening international cooperation. the european parliament calls for the support and promotion of those fundamental and democratic rights which are at the very basis of the european construction, but which still too many people in this world cannot enjoy. the united nations must act in this direction in order to ensure a climate of peace and security. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the proposed text.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for the recommendation to the council on the eu's priorities for the 71st session of the un general assembly next september. the text, based on the strong relationship between the united nations and the union, reaffirms the european side's continued commitment to multilateral cooperation based on universal norms and values as an integral part of our external policy. the council should press for multilateral diplomatic solutions with the parties to the ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa, in particular by supporting peace negotiations between the syrian parties. the council was also asked to support the eu's active role in collective action to combat international terrorism and in defining measures to disarm terrorist groups and to combat nuclear proliferation, in line with the relevant international treaties. as regards the question of reform of the security council, the council should work towards a composition of this body which better reflects the new world reality and therefore the un's capacity to react to crises, with the aim of achieving a reformed and enlarged council in which the eu can obtain a permanent seat.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through its member states and the high representative, should support a comprehensive reform of the un security council based on a broad consensus, in order to better reflect the new global reality and ensure that this body is able to effectively deal with threats to international peace and security. i voted strongly in favour of this report because i believe that the medium-term objective of striving for a european union seat on a reformed united nations security council should be pursued. this is an ambitious goal which will only be achieved if the european institutions and member states work together to tackle the enormous challenges we face on a daily basis, within the union and beyond. the european union is an established reality which must be able to express its united voice also in the international arena.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today, this house confirms its commitment to combating all forms of discrimination. there is no hierarchy of human rights and discrimination based on disability must be given the same attention and benefit from the same prevention and safeguarding measures. we have recalled that the inclusion of people with disabilities is not only a right and a deserved benefit for those concerned but also a resource for society as a whole. but not enough is being done either to prevent discrimination on the basis of disability, or to provide adequate support for their families. it is essential that all european union policies and programmes, both external and internal, respect the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and establish specific measures to ensure that these rights are mainstreamed in all areas, including humanitarian and development policies and programmes.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. however, there are still particular problems with the actual implementation of the convention, particularly as regards the limits of european competence. the main points on which the report focuses are: free access for disabled people to the world of work; the removal of architectural barriers and, finally, the definition of a social protection system that allows for an adequate standard of living. i believe that the european institutions should strive to improve the daily lives of all citizens without distinction, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, 80 million people are affected by disability, about 15% of the total population. under articles 21 and 26 of the charter of fundamental rights, they are protected from discrimination and guaranteed equal participation in the life of the community. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first international human rights treaty ratified by the eu and represents a major step forward in the protection of persons with disabilities. the text voted by parliament today, which i strongly supported, is the result of the work of 11 parliamentary committees and extensive consultation with civil society and representative organisations of people with disabilities, the crpd must now be fully and rapidly implemented with the aim of creating a europe without barriers and with an internal market for people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of disabled people are respected, and that the right to social security is guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the report is well thought out and shareable. finally, the eu is moving towards an evolution of the concept of disability protection, which has so far been limited to protection and care, and now focuses on an approach to disability aimed at ensuring the active participation of disabled people in our society. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ people with disabilities are often excluded from society, and the european union has therefore committed itself to fully respecting their rights by acceding to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) in 2010. the s&d group and the european parliament have always fought against discrimination and to defend and strengthen the human rights and fundamental freedoms of these people. the report stresses the need to define better the obstacles that individual member states may encounter in applying the convention and the need to take greater account of the specific rights and obligations of disabled people in the various sectors in order to ensure that they live as easily and independently as possible. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in europe, some 80 million people are affected by disability. this is a category of citizens who are too often discriminated against and marginalised, but who have the full right to a life of dignity, independence and autonomy, and to full participation in our societies. these are people who are too often not adequately supported and who are unfortunately too easily seen as a burden, when in reality they contribute significantly to the material and cultural enrichment of our communities. with a view to raising awareness of and protecting the rights of persons with disabilities, and in accordance with article 19 tfeu and the charter of fundamental rights, the european union has acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i therefore hope that the union and its member states will be fully and increasingly involved in the implementation of the provisions of the convention. while we are moving in the right direction overall, much remains to be done: for this reason, i welcome the eu's ratification of the optional protocol to the convention, as well as the inclusion of the rights of persons with disabilities in the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities because it is a document of the utmost importance for the promotion of a new culture regarding the situation of persons with disabilities and their families. however, social, cultural, scientific and economic dynamics require that a regulatory system, however advanced, put in place, in a timely manner, processes of updating and reviewing the instruments at its disposal, in order to increase, at all levels, the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. moreover, rules alone are not enough; too often they remain dead letters. we need political, cultural, because the culture of rights must be reconquered every day. unfortunately, disabled people still face a wide range of obstacles to their progress towards equal opportunities, independence and full social and economic integration. although the union has responded to this challenge by adopting a number of legal and political initiatives to remove these obstacles, there is still a long way to go. it is time for the european union to make a strong commitment to the full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) in december 2010; it makes the eu subject to the scrutiny of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd committee). the report focuses on the issues highlighted in the conclusions of the crpd committee. m5s europe contributed with its amendments: ensuring full accessibility in the labour market, education and training programmes, erasmus+, the definition of a social protection base in the eu, respect for the right to an adequate standard of living and social protection, etc. the m5s delegation therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the concluding observations of the committee on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) highlight the various critical issues that still persist for the full and equal participation of disabled people in society, services, facilities and work. in europe, it is estimated that there are some 80 million disabled citizens, and only 48% of them are in employment. although the convention has proved to be a useful tool in promoting legislative reforms within the countries of the union, we are still far from achieving an inclusive society for disabled people and therefore the path that has been started must be continued by providing support and protection also to families. the report voted in plenary, and on which i voted in favour, clearly identifies the actions to be taken at both european and national level if the objective of a europe in which all people can fully enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms is to be achieved, and i am confident that boys and girls with disabilities will soon be able to participate in european mobility and exchange programmes such as erasmus+. it would be an important signal that the union could send to all the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 'report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities' because i believe that the european union must combat discrimination by defining and implementing its policies and activities. i also believe that the institutions of the european union themselves should set an example in implementing the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the eu's accession to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) has demonstrated that the eu strongly believes that discrimination of any kind must be fought. i believe that the union as such must set an example in respecting and promoting human rights and therefore the european institutions must in my view work to ensure that existing and future legislation respects human rights and is fully in line with the crpd. i therefore agree with this proposal which aims to combat discrimination, particularly against disabled people and women, and i think it is important that the institutions follow this line. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, because as full citizens, all persons with disabilities have equal rights, including inalienable rights to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy, support from publicly funded systems and full participation in society. it is necessary to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the crpd at national level in order to ensure full respect for human rights and the principle of equal treatment of persons with disabilities, to whom reasonable solutions must be ensured, including in terms of employment.
in writing. ‒ there are about 80 million disabled people in the eu, a large proportion of whom are women, with the result that they are victims of multiple discrimination. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first international human rights treaty ratified by the eu, signed by all member states. in addition, the concluding observations of the convention's monitoring committee have already been positive about the eu's commitment to equality and respect for human rights. by voting in favour, i intend to support europe's commitment to ensuring that, in accordance with the principles of the convention, all persons with disabilities and their families fully enjoy their human rights in an inclusive society. i believe it is essential to focus on the gender dimension - women with disabilities and mothers of children with disabilities - and on the rights of children with disabilities, who are too often victims of violence, neglect and abuse. disability can expose those affected to poverty and discrimination in the labour market and it is up to the european union to mainstream the disability dimension in its gender and children-related policies and programmes and the gender and children perspective in its disability strategies.
in writing. ‒ the uncrpd is a document of the utmost importance for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. the report focuses mainly on the concluding observations of the un crpd committee, which is responsible for monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the convention. i voted in favour of this resolution because, in addition to making a number of important recommendations for better protection and social inclusion of people with disabilities, it calls for the first time on the commission and the member states to give due recognition to the fundamental role of family carers, that is, the family members of a person with disabilities, and to ensure that they too have adequate access to health services, taking into account the impact on their health and psychophysical well-being of the care they provide to people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which contains reasonable and concrete proposals to increase the inclusion of disabled people in the european social fabric and its institutions.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report by my colleagues on the committee on social affairs and employment on the rights of disabled people. it is a very concrete text, which aims to address to the member states and the commission a detailed list of the work priorities that the eu has in front of it to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is - i want to stress this - the first un agreement signed by the eu as a legal person. the s&d group's fight to facilitate the integration of disabled people into working life is a defining feature of our political activity, and i would like to mention the clear mobilisation in favour of the application of the marrakesh treaty for the visually impaired and the blind. with this parliamentary act we are continuing the political pressure to ensure that the rights of the disabled are guaranteed in a horizontal way in all areas of community legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities with particular reference to the concluding observations of the un crpd committee, because the crpd is the first international human rights treaty ratified by the eu, and by 27 of the 28 member states. the fight against discrimination on the grounds of disability is enshrined in the tfeu, and articles 21 and 26 of the eu charter of fundamental rights prohibit discrimination on the grounds of disability and provide for the equal participation of persons with disabilities in the life of the community. on the basis of these important premises, the full inclusion of persons with disabilities is not only a right and a deserved benefit for those concerned, but also a resource for society as a whole, which can benefit from the value and diverse skills of these people. their inclusion, regardless of the socioeconomic, political or cultural situation of a country, is not just a development issue, but a human rights issue. i shared the strong call for the council to adopt the 2008 directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
in writing. in december 2010, the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). this treaty was adopted by all the member states and is the first of its kind concerning the protection of human rights at international level. however, the optional protocol has not yet been ratified and the report therefore calls for this to be noted. by ratifying the crpd, the eu will be subject to scrutiny by the crpd committee, which will invite the eu to produce an initial report on the state of implementation and to submit periodic updates on the convention. member states will therefore have to implement the convention at both regional and national level, demonstrating a continuous promotion of the rights claimed by the crpd. for these reasons, i welcome the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with particular reference to the concluding observations of the un crpd committee.
in writing. ‒ today, barriers still exist which make life more difficult for people with disabilities. we must remove barriers and create an inclusive society, free from all discrimination. i believe this will reduce poverty and improve the quality of life for people with disabilities and for all those who can care for them.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the 2009 council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and considering that, as full citizens, all persons with disabilities have equal rights, including inalienable rights to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy, support from public systems and full participation in society, i welcome the report on the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) d) the full inclusion of disabled people is not only a right and a well-deserved benefit for the people concerned, but also a resource for society as a whole, which can benefit from the value and the different skills of these people. the crpd covers a wide range of rights, covering all areas of life, some of which fall outside the remit of the convention. the member states are therefore required to apply the convention at all levels, including regional and national, and to ensure that the convention is applied in a uniform manner. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union. rpd. what is it?
in writing. ‒ the report focuses mainly on the concluding observations of the un crpd committee, which aims to monitor and monitor the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. i, along with other members of my group, have proposed amendments to help to ensure that people with disabilities are better protected in various areas, including education and employment. for example, we have fought for greater accessibility to education and training programmes as well as to erasmus+, youth guarantee and eures initiatives, as well as for a social protection base in the eu, so that the right to an adequate standard of living and social protection for people with disabilities is respected. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ all persons with disabilities have inalienable rights as citizens, including to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. the eu's accession to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) is therefore significantly important, both symbolically and practically. now we must ensure that it is implemented, so that all people with disabilities can enjoy their full human rights in an inclusive society. certain categories of disabled citizens, such as women, children, the elderly and immigrants, are often victims of double discrimination and therefore deserve special protection and attention. it is essential to promote their full participation in the labour market so that they can lead a dignified, independent and active life. women also usually bear the burden of caring for disabled family members, often forcing them to give up their professional and working lives. it is essential that the union mainstreams the disability dimension in its gender-related policies and programmes and the gender perspective in its disability strategies. i therefore support the resolution calling on the european institutions to achieve full social inclusion of disabled people.
in writing. ‒ the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010, as the first regional integration organisation. it is the first international human rights treaty that the eu has ratified as a whole, a tangible sign of the global vocation of this organisation of nation-states. with the ratification of the optional protocol to this convention, the eu is now subject to the scrutiny of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd committee). this is a technical aspect, but it helps to strengthen the union's action in support of people with disabilities, who must enjoy greater protection and, above all, must be able to feel that they are full european citizens. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stevens report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this convention is an important milestone as it is the first and so far the only international human rights treaty that the eu has ratified as a whole. the report, for which i voted in favour, is a very technical text which allows the decisions contained in the convention to be implemented. i would like to emphasise that some of the rights of the cprd fall outside the eu's competence; the member states are therefore obliged to implement the convention at all levels.
in writing. ‒ this text outlines the state of implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, while making recommendations to member states to ensure greater inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. i believe that there is no hierarchy of human rights and that discrimination on the grounds of disability must be fought in the same way as discrimination on other grounds. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report because it is an important testimony to the eu's commitment to equality and respect for the rights of the disabled and provides guidelines for future european policies.
in writing. ‒ around 15% of the world's population, or about one billion people, live with a disability and almost 80% of these live in poor or developing countries. these are often unknown facts which also require the european union to commit itself to protecting these people. it is important to ensure full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in all areas and policies of the european union and to involve persons with disabilities and their organisations in processes that affect them. strong action is needed to combat sexual violence against women and children with disabilities and it is essential to provide assistance to people with disabilities also in 'post-emergency' situations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ the eu acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010, as the first regional integration organisation. it is the first international human rights treaty that the eu has ratified as a whole and remains the only one to date. with ratification, the eu is now subject to the scrutiny of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the primary objective of this report is to focus on the issues highlighted in the concluding observations of the un crpd committee, in particular on the recommendations falling within the eu's competence. among the most important points of the report, the need to ensure full accessibility for people with disabilities to the labour market, education and training programmes and the erasmus+, youth guarantee and eures initiatives is highlighted; the removal of architectural barriers from public buildings and workplaces; recognition of the importance of carers; finally, the definition of a social protection base in the eu, in order to respect the right to an adequate standard of living and social protection for people with disabilities. i voted in favour of this report so that disabled european citizens are increasingly protected.
i voted today in favour of accepting the objection in question because i believe that the commission's authorization of health claims for caffeine on certain foodstuffs is completely out of line with the objectives of the regulation. the indications concerning the increase in performance in terms of increased alertness and concentration should not appear not only on foods intended for children, but also on those intended for adolescents.
in writing. ‒ studies show that 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks, mainly in the form of cans. a single 250-ml can can contains up to 27 grams of sugar and about 80 milligrams of caffeine. these are widely consumed drinks, but their consumption has been associated with headaches, sleep disturbances and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who use them regularly. my vote in favour of the objection tabled today in parliament is motivated by the belief that it may be harmful to allow the presence of nutritional claims on sugar-sweetened beverages and energy drinks containing caffeine which promote their ability to increase attention or concentration. i am convinced that the use of nutrition labels in this case may encourage excessive consumption of energy drinks, which is why i strongly supported the motion for a resolution by the envi committee.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution is balanced and free of particular criticisms, so i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the object of the objection is to urge the commission to withdraw the draft regulation submitted and to consider the possibility of introducing restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the m5s europe delegation therefore voted in favour of the objection, hoping that the use of health claims for caffeine would be reconsidered.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that parliament has shown itself united in rejecting the inclusion of nutritional profiles for the second time. i think that today's vote is a great victory, because it has once again shown that the union is not in favour of such profiles, which are not only not useful to the citizen, but also tend to mislead him in his choices. as i have said for some time, i am strongly opposed to these profiles which give the state the task of stating whether a product is healthy or unhealthy, without assessing the amount of consumption of that product and the diet and lifestyle of the person consuming it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i share the need to take measures to strengthen consumer health protection by ensuring greater certainty about the quality and origin of food products. however, i do not think that this proposal is a necessary measure to protect health and that it is appropriate for the commission to draw up a list of health claims for the consumption of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ with this objection, it intends to urge the commission to withdraw the draft regulation submitted and to consider the possibility of introducing restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents. 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks, and as many as 25 percent of teenagers who do drink energy drinks drink three or more cans in a row. i believe that a 'health claim' should be used for substances for which there is a clear 'improvement' link with health-related aspects. the inclusion of a health claim, such as 'caffeine helps to increase mental alertness', has an impact on consumption and may encourage the target market to consume higher quantities of the product. i supported the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 on the establishment of a list of permitted health claims on food other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, because i believe that the proposal to introduce health claims in caffeinated products is deeply wrong from both a scientific and a political-educational point of view. although caffeine has positive effects on the endurance and concentration level of the individual, excessive intake nevertheless has important contraindications in terms of anxiolytic effects, tachycardia and arrhythmia and stomach disorders. from an educational point of view, given the widespread use of energy drinks high in sugar among adolescents, such health claims would increase the consumption of these drinks by children and adolescents, who should not be exposed to sugar consumption above a certain threshold. finally, i am against the introduction of nutritional profiles in the eu, as they are misleading and not suitable for protecting the health of citizens. i believe that there is no such thing as good or bad food, but only healthy and unbalanced diets, as the mediterranean tradition teaches.
in writing. ‒ the object of the objection is to urge the commission to withdraw the draft regulation submitted and to consider the possibility of introducing restrictions on the sale of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the commission provides the conditions and restrictions of use for the use of four different health claims for caffeine but i am not convinced that this provides sufficient protection. a health claim should be used for substances for which an 'improvement' link to health-related aspects is clear. the inclusion of a health claim, such as 'caffeine helps to increase mental alertness', has an impact on consumption and may encourage the target market to consume higher quantities of the product. we already know that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks, and even 25 percent of teenagers who do consume energy drinks drink three or more cans in a row. i therefore vote in favour of the objection and hope that you will reconsider the use of health claims for caffeine.
in writing. the resolution vetoes the commission's proposal to allow nutrition labelling on sugar-containing drinks and caffeinated energy drinks to promote and emphasise the ability to increase attention or concentration. such advertisements could encourage excessive sugar intake by adolescents. in fact, adolescents are the largest group of energy drink consumers. it is estimated that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks. it's not just the caffeine, energy drinks also have a lot of sugar. a 250 ml can of energy drink may contain up to 27 grams of sugar and 80 milligrams of caffeine; these drinks have been associated with headaches, sleep disturbances and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who use them regularly. i voted in favour of this resolution which requires that claims advertising 'caffeine helps to increase mental alertness and helps to improve concentration' should not be used for food intended for children and adolescents. i don't think these types of drinks should have any kind of health claim.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increasing frequency with which member states impose non-tariff barriers on food exporters in the internal market is not only in breach of the rules but also calls into question one of the four freedoms of the european union, namely the free movement of goods. in addition to the discriminatory effect, such actions have an impact on the competitiveness of imported food products in the internal market, contributing to a decline in cross-border trade in food products. the consequences of such actions have a negative impact on the functioning of the internal market and often lead to the closure of firms themselves. the commission must seriously consider introducing provisions at eu level prohibiting practices affecting food imports in order to ensure the proper, fair and transparent functioning of the internal market for food producers and retailers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china has no legislation specifically covering the collection, storage, transmission and processing of personal information and has not entered into any agreement with the european union. the european standardised model is a reference point but not yet a globally applicable standard. however, despite the european union limiting personal data transfers to countries that do not comply with its strict privacy adequacy requirements, exchanges of personal data between the european union and china have become an important reality of contemporary cloud computing environments. china has adopted an aggressive trade policy, setting up international offshore cloud computing zones and extending free trade zones to foreign investors. we must ensure that transfers of data belonging to european citizens to china comply with the requirements of our regulations within a very short time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply wanted to understand the criteria: the commission has already given the floor to eight representatives of the alde and ppe groups. there was only one request from the s&d, my own, and i was not given the floor. moreover, he justified himself by saying that he did not give the floor to those who had previously had it. i didn't have it, unlike my colleague kelly. so this is a totally discriminatory and unjustifiable attitude.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have said it well: we are very concerned about the devastating effects on unemployment which the crises at caterpillar in belgium and alstom in france are causing - thousands and thousands of jobs are being lost. we must discuss this in the context of a wider discussion on the industrial crisis in europe and the policies that the european union must adopt to counter these devastating effects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european energy sector has changed. we have moved from centralised energy production to more flexible models, organised around decentralised production, the integration of renewable technologies, with the aim of overcoming national protectionism which risks undermining the construction of the european energy union. today the aim is to update the market rules: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. i would like to highlight three points which i think are important in the langen report. the first: an approach that integrates renewable generation at all stages of the market production, networking, storage, distribution, opening up new markets for small producers. a concrete commitment, therefore, towards the energy transition towards a decarbonised model of development, in line with the objectives of the framework resolution on the energy union of last december. secondly: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in electricity and the common organization of the market in natural gas is a good example of the need to develop a common approach to the problem of energy supply and demand. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of the european energy market, including the introduction of a new energy market in the european union. in this connection, i welcome the parts which deal with the distortive aspects of the electricity market which we must overcome in the future: the key issues are capacity mechanisms and technology support schemes. the former must guarantee certain capacities and can no longer be drawn up on a national basis, but must be transnational in nature. the latter, i.e. renewable energy support schemes, have played an important role, but they need to be reviewed on the basis of the degree of maturity of the respective renewable technologies. so, overall, it's a tall text. i hope this house will support it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the energy market must be radically redesigned to speed up the energy transition, decentralise production and help achieve the union's climate and energy objectives. to this end, the current structure of a few large conventional plants needs to be transformed to increase local renewable production, giving more space and voice to smaller and less organised producers, such as prosumers and cooperatives, and new services associated with them. unfortunately, the langen report, in our humble opinion, does not sufficiently reflect these needs, although it has been much, much improved - we thank him for that - during the shadow meetings, as it came out of the vote in committee, but references to fossil and nuclear remain and the position on the opposition to capacity mechanisms, which are in fact subsidies disguised as fossil fuels, is not as clear as we would like. at the same time, they would like to eliminate subsidies for renewables, which we would also accept if the costs of fossil and nuclear energy were always considered in terms of the negative externalities on health, ecosystems and climate: then we can really talk about free trade! we welcome the gierek report, which strikes the necessary balance between decarbonisation and technological foresight, the gradual but decisive reduction of fossil fuels, and the importance it attaches to smart and efficient buildings and smart appliances. we do not really agree on the incineration of waste, we have doubts about some forms of heating and biogas, but we will see how the amendments are received in the plenary during the vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the administrative experience of local government acquired before today at municipal, provincial and regional level, i shall try to give you all what i believe to be the real world vision which he is working hard, with commitment, passion and skill, to produce for us too. the real world view that is compass, must be compass of good work. unfortunately, in 20 years of european policies in favour of liberalising markets, energy, water and transport, we have in fact seen poor accessibility, a continuous increase in fares for citizens and businesses, increased response times, less efficiency in the service and poor transparency of the bill. in addition, the report makes a somewhat spasmodic use of the word 'simplification': the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. yes, if we don't reverse course, it'll be easier to stay out of work. thank you, long live lombardy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international scene shows that energy security contributes to consolidating the political independence of the member states. this scenario cannot be separated from the one concerning the efficient use of energy and the reduction of co2 emissions, the energy resilience of individual countries... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international scene shows that energy security contributes to consolidating the political independence of the member states. this scenario cannot be separated from the scenario of efficient energy use and reduction of co2 emissions, energy resilience of individual countries and the fight against energy poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the energy transition. i agree with the rapporteurs: the commission's proposal is urgent, binding, but above all geopolitical, if we consider that energy markets still have a strong regionalist character, based on the principle of national responsibility for the energy mix. this different management of sovereignty is an important part of the challenges facing europe in the energy sector which ultimately needs to...
in writing. heating and cooling, i.e. the heating and cooling of buildings, is a matter of primary importance for the eu, since it accounts for 50% of total energy consumption in europe and some of this is misused or wasted. reducing waste, producing heat from cogeneration and insulating buildings could all bring enormous benefits to the eu and its citizens, as well as helping to meet europe's commitments at cop21 in paris. on the one hand, consumers would be able to save on the cost of their energy bills, and on the other, europe could reduce its energy dependence on exporting countries. it is also necessary to promote the use of coating technologies and materials, in particular in the renovation of old or energy-poor buildings, both for public and private buildings. finally, it is important to recall the benefits that a significant reduction in energy consumption for heating and cooling could bring to the environment, allowing citizens to live in healthier, cleaner and safer environmental contexts.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues with whom i have worked productively during the negotiations. the report we approved in the regi committee is an implementation report, which is intended to analyse 'holistically' the various aspects concerning the implementation of thematic objective 3, namely the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises in the new programming. europe's 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (i.e. those with less than 250 employees) represent about 99% of all enterprises, and make a key contribution to development, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality job creation, producing over 100 million jobs and income. in europe, small and medium-sized enterprises are very diverse: the number of micro-enterprises (i.e. with less than 10 employees) operating in both traditional sectors and at the start-up level is increasing. today, they represent 93% of the more than 22 million small and medium-sized enterprises. in the present programming, the funds have been doubled compared with the old one, but the still considerable amount of 64 billion of financing, which will become 140, is a necessary condition, but not sufficient to cope with the many difficulties that our enterprises encounter on a daily basis. first of all, we must say that the economic crisis and austerity policies have stifled domestic demand. secondly, the bureaucratic and regulatory environment is a veritable jungle which makes it virtually impossible to invest. in the report we stressed the importance of public procurement being organised in a transparent and innovative way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. at the same time, we must be vigilant, and i call on the commission and the member states to be vigilant, both on the backlog of payments and on the proper application of the late payments directive. we cannot afford to have our small and mediumsized enterprises discouraged from participating in projects and programmes because of a lack of confidence in the system. (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. we must therefore be vigilant and i call on the commission to be vigilant the importance of access to credit must also be stressed. small and mediumsized enterprises, and particularly micro enterprises, have suffered the consequences of credit crunch and often face considerable difficulties in obtaining credit lines from banks. the risk is that you're putting a worse piece of the hole if you resort to financial engineering, to provide them with high-risk products. if we add to this the delays in cohesion policy, over-regulation, state aid rules, we understand how complex and urgent it is to help our businesses. what do we propose? an integrated regional and european policy process, focusing on specific sectors such as manufacturing, new technologies, sustainable construction, green vehicles and smart grids. we must, while respecting the territorial specificities of each region, promote the principles of the circular economy package, with the aim of sustainable economic development and paying particular attention to the promotion of green jobs. a greener value chain, including remanufacturing, repair, maintenance, recycling and eco-design, can offer considerable business opportunities to small and medium-sized enterprises. the supply of energy at low cost is essential: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the european industry to reduce its energy consumption. in the light of the current migration crisis, small and medium-sized enterprises can offer an innovative opportunity for the integration of refugees entering the eu labour market. our small and mediumsized enterprises must be more glocal, as they say, but their process of internationalisation should be based on corporate social responsibility.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, cohesion policy, which we are discussing today in these four reports, is one of the few instruments which is firmly on the side of citizens, students, workers and businesses. the resources available to it are resources that fall entirely within the territory and remain today one of the few sources of investment in the whole of the european union, particularly at local level. the role of the regions and local authorities is important for cohesion policy, just as it is fundamental in the strategy for the alpine macro-region, which my report deals with in particular. the eusalp strategy offers the countries of the region of this vast region an opportunity to invest in joint projects with a european impact, not just regional, but also developing new forms of multi-level governance, originating in the regions and implemented with the contribution of the european institutions. i am therefore convinced that the role of regions and local authorities must be strengthened in the strategy. as i said in the report we voted on: the regions and local authorities will have to be fully involved in the management of the strategy if we are to achieve results. we also know how important it is that this strategy does not overlap with existing interregional and crossborder cooperation, but that it can provide added value and complement the experience already gained. it is above all a question of addressing objectives common to the whole alpine and pre-alpine area, but with repercussions throughout europe. this is the great area of rebalancing in southern europe. what is happening in this region is of relevance, as we know, to the whole of the union. in line with the europe 2020 european objectives on sustainable development, environment and energy, the design and implementation of macro-regional projects should be encouraged, including through this strategy. the eusalp strategy is intended to be a useful tool for this purpose. it will therefore be important that the strategy serves as a new tool to support economic development, growth and employment in these areas, not only in traditional sectors such as tourism and food and wine - which remain fundamental - but also and above all in more innovative sectors. what will be important is the interaction between large urban areas, peri-urban areas and rural areas with mountain areas, which will determine the success of this strategy, but above all the economic recovery of these areas. there are unused or misused resources just waiting to be revitalized. one of our proposals is to create an investment platform for the whole alpine and peri-alpine region, which will enable public and private financing to be mobilised, including through the eib, the opportunities offered by cohesion policy and the efsi. but we cannot think of developing these territories until we are able to connect them to the rest of the world. there are still too many dark areas in these regions, particularly in the alpine areas, where the internet connection is weak or non-existent. we need new solutions which, combined with the traditional ones, allow those who really want to do business or simply contribute to the development of these areas to do so on equal terms with the competition. we must make these areas attractive, a magnet for young people, with opportunities and tools. the report also stresses that the majority of the major infrastructures envisaged in the ten-t plan, these axes, will then have to be connected to widespread, efficient and sustainable local infrastructures. in short, it will not be the solution to all problems, but it is a unique opportunity for the macro-region.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, it is a great pleasure to be with you again in the chamber today. i would like to begin by warmly thanking the rapporteurs: mrs mihaylova, mrs d'amato, mrs bresso and mr valcárcel, and of course the european parliament's committee on regional development for these four excellent reports which bring to the centre of our discussion both the support of cohesion policy for smart growth and territorial cooperation and the strategy for the alpine region. given that, as you know, i have only five minutes to talk about these vast topics, i'll try to get straight to the point. as regards the report by mrs d'amato on improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the european commission welcomes and shares the view of the european parliament that operational programmes are now much more focused on strategic priorities and, especially when they aim at innovation, play a key role in creating high-quality jobs. support for smes, including start-ups, must indeed take into account support mechanisms for entrepreneurial skills as well as a range of external services for smes to boost, develop and innovate in many regions. at the same time, i agree with you that we need to ensure that these mechanisms are easily accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises. that is why, as you know, we have taken a number of steps to simplify the rules, and the results of the simplification working group, which is looking at support for small and medium-sized enterprises, will be seen at the end of september. we are trying to introduce some recommendations already in this financial cycle, in particular on e-cohesion and simplified costs, to make the lives of the beneficiaries much easier. you know very well that it is not easy for us to strike that balance between the need to simplify the rules and the need to know and have effective control over how european taxpayers' money is spent. the european commission also notes the proposal to create a participatory platform to ensure the dissemination of the results of smes' projects. i would like to point out that there is already a special page on the european commission's website - the open data platform - where all the projects funded with european money are presented, including those of small and medium-sized enterprises in each country and in each region. with regard to mr valcárcel's report on research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation, i would of course like to welcome the strong support of the european parliament for smart specialisation in the context of cohesion policy. i thank mr valcárcel for his presentation and for your specific question. indeed, the most powerful challenges are when it comes to implementation. our challenge now is to ensure that these strategies are implemented on the ground and i fully agree with your report, which stresses the need for better programme coordination and the establishment of collaborative platforms and partnerships, and to promote collaboration at all levels: intra-regional, inter-regional, cross-border and transnational. the commission will continue to support these processes, for example through the smart specialisation platform which provides highly valuable support to regions in developing and implementing these strategies. in this respect, spain, through the seville institute, makes an important contribution to the member states and regions. in addition, we will of course ensure that european regions benefit from the potential of combining cohesion policy funding with other eu instruments such as horizon 2020 and the investment plan, the strategic investment fund, what we already generically call the juncker plan. in this respect, as you know, i have already published a guide to help those who wish to use these funds in a complementary way. of course, we will not stop here, we intend to develop further guides if necessary. these will be followed by exchanges of good practice in which i strongly believe. it is a fact of life, after all, that some member states and regions are more advanced, have more experience and greater administrative capacity, while other member states are still at the beginning of the road and i think we always have to learn from each other. in connection with mrs mihaylova's report on european territorial cooperation, this is a subject which is in my personal and dg regio's attention. i would like to stress that, thanks to the investments through the interreg programmes, we are indeed now seeing a real change for the better in crossborder cooperation from research to transport and environmental protection. in fact, i visited 25 countries in my two years in office and tried to visit many, many of the objectives of cross-border cooperation. of course, this tool can be further optimized and needs to be optimized in a constantly changing environment. therefore, i personally very much appreciate this own-initiative report. i want to congratulate you on this idea. in particular, i agree with your recommendations to encourage the joint establishment of strategies for integrated and sustainable territorial development in border areas. a common strategy is essential for the effective use of the two specific instruments, namely integrated territorial investment and community-led local development, which can play an important role in this regard. of course, to succeed, strong political commitment and close technical cooperation between member states across borders is needed. unfortunately, we have some cross-border programmes that are blocked, and we will certainly try to work with those countries to unblock them to start these cross-border programmes. but, of course, on the other hand, we have cross-border regions that have made the most of this potential for common development. i think your support is essential. i can assure you that for me personally, at a time when many member states are looking to rebuild borders, it is a priority for me to remove administrative barriers between member states. as regards mrs bresso's report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, i would like to welcome the balanced and well-conceived approach which takes into account the efforts and contribution of several specialised committees of the european parliament. as you know, we have had the opportunity to speak on several occasions about this strategy, which brings together advanced countries, some of the most advanced countries in the european union, but also non-member countries and poorer regions, as you have also pointed out. i fully agree with you that it is necessary to promote and align, coordinate the funding of cohesion policy as well as other european union funds and financial instruments. in addition, the launch of projects and actions at macro-regional level is of utmost importance in order to fully exploit the possible financing options and synergies within the strategy. as you know, the commission has adapted the legal framework of cohesion policy so that the programmes take account of the objectives and projects of the macro-regional strategies. however, i would like to point out that the alpine strategy, like all other macro-regional strategies (the danube strategy, the baltic strategy, the adriatic-ionian strategy), belongs first and foremost to the member states and was adopted at the request of those member states. the european commission will maintain its role as facilitator. i welcome your idea of having this investment platform. we are partners in this idea of seeing to what extent we can combine european funds, structural funds with strategic funds for infrastructure projects, but also for less developed areas. the commission is keeping this active role and we will be here if our work brings added value, but of course we cannot do this as the commission without an active partnership with the participating member states and regions. sorry i'm late, there are four reports. thank you very much and i look forward to the plenary debate.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental issues are cross-disciplinary: this is the thinking behind the envi opinion. just think about the relationships between biodiversity, tourism, agriculture, forestry and livestock farming, between pollution, industry, transport, energy and the circular economy. in the macro-region, more attention needs to be paid to mountain areas, which are often neglected compared to urban areas, reconciling environment and economic and social development in the alpine air, an area rich in natural resources, culture and traditions. the fight against climate change is having a positive impact on the alpine regions because today we are sadly witnessing the shrinking of glaciers and torrential rains that cause landslides and floods. it is essential to combat abandonment of the territory because the presidio is an important tool against hydrogeological disruption. in this area, and not only in this, europe should show greater flexibility, partly because bureaucratic rigidities are not suited to these small realities. i congratulate mrs bresso on her work and on her taking up many of the issues on which we voted by a large majority in the committee on the environment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport, i express my disappointment both with the method adopted by the rapporteur in drafting the final report and with some important points which were approved by the committees responsible for the opinion but which are not included in the final text. the rapporteur decided not to include in the report any of the elements approved in the other committees, and felt that she wanted to reformulate the whole thing independently. i think that is not respectful of the work done by each of us, which is shared between the various political groups for the committee of reference. i therefore urge you to give serious consideration to the amendments which will be voted on tomorrow and which contain precisely those points which have been taken from the texts of the various opinions and which have not been considered by the rapporteur. in these amendments we have reiterated the need to ensure public access to documents relating to publicly funded works, we have asked that public health and the environment be given priority as grounds for granting access to documents, and we have also asked that no new projects relating to transport infrastructure be initiated or financed as long as existing infrastructure is not fully exploited. the committee on transport also called for no funding for infrastructure which poses an avoidable and disproportionate risk to the environment, natural resources or public health. the turin-lyon route, which was consistently rejected by the local population, was never questioned and never taken into account in the final decisions. in the committee on transport we were calling for public consultations to be promoted in order to respect the will of the citizens and not have to create new unnecessary large-scale projects that irreparably damage health and the environment and that feed corruption and mafia infiltration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to speak because the report on the alpine strategy - and i thank the rapporteur, mrs bresso - is a report which is attentive to two major issues: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and it is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. you think that the depopulation in those territories alone over the last 10 to 15 years is 40 percent. it is an area which, if we do not pay due attention to the active infrastructure that produces wealth, well-being and development, to the environment, to everything we are introducing, north and south of the alps, those same infrastructures, when they cross that fragile region, become passive structures. and where depopulation is due to land that is difficult to work, an area that is very difficult to develop - but at the same time an area that is very important - we find ourselves having to provide an income to those territories, so that in the future there is population, not depopulation. the possibility of populating these areas is given by a strategy such as the one we will approve tomorrow, which we are discussing this evening, capable of providing additional income to those territories, where depopulation is not due to a lack of love for that land - which is there and is strong, love - but because it is impossible, like this, in these conditions. i sometimes hear about criminal infiltration. i use this term to avoid using very italian terms. i think we should instead think about development, and then there are the tools, the people in charge of monitoring the success of development, but development is necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are wasting 26 billion on building a new turin-lyon link, replacing an existing network perfectly suited to commercial traffic. in italy, almost 6 billion were wasted to build the mose, a system of movable dams that does not serve to protect venice from the waters, but has served to enrich the corrupt. only 509 euros were found for the safety of the bell tower in accumuli, an italian earthquake village, which collapsed killing a family. our alpine regions have not been able to secure funds for years to protect rivers, the mountains have been ravaged by speculation, and every year floods and landslides become more and more catastrophic. politicians visit the sites of disasters and promise that it will never happen again and they know they are lying. this will continue until we abandon the unfortunate policy of unnecessary large-scale construction and devote public money to the real common interest, which is the protection of the lives of citizens, territories and waterways. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of the amendments to the bresso report which support the financing of transparent projects, the protection of public water sources, which must remain public, and against the absurdity and waste of the turin-lyon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express our full support as the league for this report, for this eusalp strategy which is so much wanted by the northern regions of my country, and particularly by lombardy. it is a late answer, of course, but it is a serious and promising answer to the many questions raised by these extraordinary alpine peoples, who are attached to their territory, their identity, perhaps less to the great works, but who are very anxious to see the hand of europe, the solidarity of europe, which has so far been very little seen, in relation to their needs for communication, productivity, support for the launching of various activities. and then there is a big question - the commissioner has to ask himself, the rapporteur has to ask himself, the rapporteur has to ask herself - about the political support of the member states, for example in our country, where there is a renzi government proposing a constitutional reform that abolishes the powers of the regions! and then they go to ventotene they should be ashamed! and then they talk about the chivasso charter: they should be ashamed! so strong defence of the rights and powers of local, regional and municipal... (the speaker is interrupted)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the alpine region as a whole is a complex system, crossed by borders, political borders, and also crossed by difficult transport routes. the alpine region is an important tourist area, if you consider that about a hundred million people holiday in the alpine region every year, making it the most important holiday destination in europe. the alpine region has very developed regions and, in addition, often very underdeveloped regions, and a common strategy is therefore very appropriate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the alpine region is a natural area, a cultural area and, above all, an economic area. as my predecessor has already said, it is obvious that the alpine region is being used to force the large predators to settle back. i think that if we do this and if we do not give the people who live there the possibility of intervening, then this delicate balance will clearly shift in favour of natural areas, and cultural and economic areas will suffer. we should also consider whether the alpine region really needs wolves and bears everywhere in all regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the sensitivity and readiness you have shown in your statements in the aftermath of the earthquake in central italy, regarding the commission's willingness to reprogram interventions on the basis of the needs of that territory which has been hit hard and dramatically in terms of lives and structures. cohesion policy must create growth, development and above all jobs. stable and lasting prosperity cannot be achieved without a solid industrial fabric that can grow and expand. small and mediumsized enterprises are at the heart of this fabric, especially in less developed economic contexts such as the south of italy. small and mediumsized enterprises are the real driving force of the economy and it is therefore to them that cohesion policy must be directed. but the reality, unfortunately, is that the structural funds are not yet suited to small and mediumsized enterprises because there are important obstacles to overcome. two of them: bureaucracy and access to credit. as the report points out, smes still face too many barriers because of the complexity of the scheduling system at all stages. and then the access to credit: the support for cohesion policy of the new financial instruments which enable banks to free up supervisory capital is essential, and it is even more important that local administrators are aware of these instruments which will enable small and mediumsized enterprises to create development.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by stressing a few points which are fundamental to me: the economic crisis, yes, but above all the austerity policies have stifled domestic demand and also businesses and our small and mediumsized enterprises. these need help in accessing credit. to this end, we must improve and change the relationship between the banking system and small businesses. financial instruments present very high risk profiles, and we do not yet have any evidence to suggest that they should be used in preference to grants. the capital market union is another welcome initiative and we do not share the optimism regardless of the commission. what we need to invest in is administrative capacity, transparency, greater transparency in the use of funds, a higher rate of participation of all local authorities, civil society actors and entrepreneurs in the process of defining the requirements for submitting project proposals in order to respond more targeted to the needs of the final beneficiaries. we must strictly apply the principle of partnership and avoid that cohesion policy is perceived as an additional imposition from above. cohesion policy is highly perfectible, but as the european union's main investment instrument it must be vigorously defended. the member states, and especially those in southern europe, which have been the main beneficiaries of the aid so far, have a very great responsibility in this. many of these states have not yet taken a clear position on this threat. in fact, in the face of the pressure from other, more flexible european funding programmes, such as horizon 2020, cohesion policy and its programmes are perceived as being backward, but we do not understand that the ratio of these policies is completely different. cohesion policy is perhaps the only truly democratic and profoundly united instrument of our community.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your speeches and i thank the commissioner for the interesting announcements she has made to us on the future development of macro-regional strategies and ours in particular. the challenge of this strategy, as i said before, is going to be to hold together such a complex and diverse area: there are areas that are highly developed economically, others that are uncontaminated, others that are in serious economic difficulty. it is the first strategy that does not involve the capitals but areas that are considered marginal by all their countries; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, the development of a european network of regional and local authorities, and regional networks. new technologies can come to our rescue, for example, with e-health, teleworking, the new opportunities of the sharing economy think of an uber in the alps, which would be very welcome because taxis are not found anywhere and therefore distance learning: in short, many innovative solutions can better address the needs of an area as complex as the alps. there have been a number of interventions on the turin-lyon. i repeat: the turin-lyon agreement is not a matter for this opinion, it is a work already decided and in progress. what we are talking about in this opinion is the need for these major works to be connected across the whole alpine and peri-alpine area, so that they can be fully exploited. i also recall that this is a line which is, however, fundamental to reducing car and truck traffic in the alpine areas, see the case of gottardo where the vast majority of traffic is now...
in writing. i believe that promoting the competitiveness of smes is of paramount importance for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. effective information and support mechanisms need to be strengthened to enable smes to benefit from european funds and to take ambitious measures in programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020 with the structural funds. strengthening research, technological development and innovation is of fundamental importance for achieving the cohesion objectives. in particular, under the national innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3), regions should develop innovative support services that complement or replace existing ones, in order to be able to fully exploit their competitive potential and help enterprises absorb new knowledge and technologies.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the title of the report we are discussing today may make one think of problems far away, but in reality it deals with issues that are very close to the european citizens and of the utmost relevance. the africa trust fund is a very delicate instrument which must be planned well, operated effectively and communicated properly. europe is at a crossroads today. it has the potential to positively impact the lives of millions of people, or it can be driven by fear and national selfishness and therefore fail in its objectives. the trust fund for africa is designed to respond to the need to address the root causes of migration through interventions aimed at creating development in those countries experiencing mass migration. the effectiveness of the fund requires: 1) to operate in the long term in a defined and programmatic manner, thus avoiding intervention in an emergency only; 2. pay particular attention to the least developed countries, making appropriate differentiations between the different contexts; (3) investing in education, health, training and essential public services; 4) involve ngos and local civil society in the planning and implementation of all projects in the field; (5) to provide for forms of control and periodic monitoring by this parliament of the use of the funds; (6) to provide for transparency, information and dissemination obligations for results which are easily verifiable by the public; 7) to require the member states to honour their promises of additional funding. for these reasons, the report i am presenting in this house seeks to make it clear that we agree both on the need to pool more resources to deal with the root causes of the problem and on the nature of a tool which will allow us to act quickly and flexibly in the face of urgent situations, just as we agree to restore the necessary budgetary units. at the same time, however, we cannot fail to point out that some questions remain. the accession countries, for example, make promises with pomp and circumstance, as we saw at the valletta summit last november, but then, behind closed doors, they forget their promises and commitments. we must also point out the real risk that development funds may be diverted to other areas, such as border controls in the countries concerned. this type of intervention has nothing to do with development and will never solve the root of the problem. i would like to conclude by stressing that all these issues have been the subject of constructive debate between the political parties, which has continued during the amendment phase and after the vote in the committee on development. similarly, thanks to the online democratic participation tools we use as the five star movement, such as the rousseau system, many citizens have had the opportunity to learn about the draft report and to express their views, and some of these comments have been transformed into amendments for my signature and have been included in the text voted in committee. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their willingness to contribute over the past few months to the preparation of a good parliamentary report on such a sensitive subject.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs and my colleagues for their work. there are many legitimate doubts and criticisms in parliament about the trust fund instrument. the first concerns the contributions of the member states: the commission has already made available 1.8 billion. secondly: these resources must be used to address poverty, inequality, the root causes of migration, and certainly not border management, the externalization of our borders. i would like to understand what the commission means when it says that one of the objectives is to help these countries to manage flows better. provide young people with education to fulfil their potential and create job opportunities: this is what is needed to promote sustainable development. building walls, on the other hand, only increases inequality. the ultimate aim of eu development policy, as enshrined in article 208 of the treaty, must be the reduction and elimination of poverty. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia. finally, i would not want the proliferation of these emergency instruments to lead to the abandonment of the community method and also of the budgetary unit. this parliament must have full democratic scrutiny and so must the involvement of civil society in the implementation of this instrument.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the speakers, i appreciate the constructive spirit shown, i agree with many of the comments made. of course i am also concerned that development money could end up in the hands of the janjaweed, the devils on horseback who commit all kinds of violence in sudan. i thank the commissioner for his comments. i have had the opportunity to speak to commissioner mimica, who assured me that there would be more information about the various projects and that parliament would be more involved so that it could exercise democratic control over the funds. i hope that this report will serve as an incentive to fill some of the gaps in the trust fund and i hope that it will be a useful tool for effectively addressing the root causes of the migration crisis. the problem is complex and our aim must be to take a few steps forward. a few things have improved since then: some ngos, for example, have reported to us an increase in transparency about the procedures that affect them, which were originally very confusing. we hope that this is the right way forward and we want parliament and the citizens to be involved in the various processes concerning the trust fund. the construction of this report was marked by dialogue and the search for practical solutions. tomorrow we shall vote on both the text and the amendments, most of which are the result of this dialogue. i am sure that parliament will be able to show its unity and resolve in voting a text which deals with more sensitive and topical issues than ever before and also in sending a firm signal to the commission and the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my region of sicily, some 5 000 hectares of oxygen-producing, income-producing, wealth-producing and job-producing crops are missing. i'm talking about plants that produced this fruit here: the lemon, this citrus. in this house, which voted for free trade agreements such as the eu-morocco treaty, but did so without ensuring traceability requirements, labelling requirements for the product, there are colleagues who have very probably never tasted a real lemon, a real sicilian lemon, and yet they have acted, affecting an entire production sector. i say that solutions exist, and they've existed for decades: we are talking about amending the traceability directive, we are talking about activating safeguard clauses, and these are things we can do and should really think about doing as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, a few weeks ago a terrible earthquake struck three regions of my country. i was listening a few minutes ago to the very combative mayor of one of the most heavily affected municipalities, mayor pirozzi of amatrice, who said to me: if you have the opportunity, speak in the strasbourg assembly, in view of the arrival of a delegation from the european commission in the earthquake-stricken areas, make sure that these commissioners speak directly to us, the mayors, who represent the people, so that the aid is monitored, so that it arrives soon, because these people do not want to leave their territory, they are facing a winter that is certainly fearful, they want help so that they can start working and producing again, because they are a people attached to their territory, but also to their work, tenaciously and constantly, in their demand to be able to save their country, their identity, their work. europe must act now.
member of the commission. madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here on behalf of president juncker, who will be addressing you tomorrow, to give you my views on the outcome of the g20 summit held on 4 and 5 september in hangzhou, china. the european union was represented as always by president juncker and by the president of the council, donald tusk, whom i had the pleasure of accompanying, given the strong economic agenda of the summit and the fact that the commissioner for economic and financial affairs always accompanies the president of the commission to the g20 summit. it was an opportunity for china to demonstrate, first, a very strong sense of organization - there was no doubt about that - but also a global responsibility which it now assumes as a key player in the world economy. for the g20 as a whole, it was an opportunity to demonstrate, after years of crisis, that we can take more aggressive policy decisions to ensure long-term sustainable growth and restore confidence. i think that in a context of questions, this challenge was important, and it was met. we have presented a number of cases in which the european union is at the forefront. i am thinking of everything that goes in the direction of a comprehensive growth strategy, in the idea of pursuing structural reforms, but also of positioning ourselves as an example in the field of taxation, the fight against tax evasion and being a promoter of international trade and a defender of investment. these were the top priorities of the world's leading leaders. our strategy has been to show that our european triangle - investment, structural reforms, responsible public finances - is working, but we must continue along this path to ensure change is sustainable and positive in the long term. you could accuse me of complacency for saying that. no, there is no point in complacency, it was said and repeated in most of the interventions during our two days in hangzhou as a call for urgent action to provide tangible results for our citizens who are waiting for them. our major economies are very closely interlinked, and slow global growth is facing, as we know, multiple obstacles. the risk of a vicious circle was well identified: low productivity growth, inequalities also growing, all provoking a populist response 'we don't have the privilege' which in turn slows down reforms and, consequently, slows down growth even more and so on. the g20 therefore decided to use all policy tools - monetary, budgetary and structural - to stimulate growth and to focus on reform efforts. cooperation has also been launched on innovation and the digital economy to increase productivity and long-term growth. in addition, the g20 leaders delivered a strong message: after a long period of crisis, we must look to the future; the benefits of growth, of globalization, of innovation, must be enjoyed by all, not just by a privileged few. for the first time, and i have been attending these summits for a number of years now, a concept has entered the public debate, and that is a good thing. this is the concept of inclusion, a fundamental principle which should be observed by placing more emphasis on skills, on social protection, but also on the definition of fiscal, commercial and other policies which must take into account this parameter of inclusive growth. the priorities of this commission, like those of the g20, are, as you know, already geared towards social justice. trade was also on the agenda. international trade is a driver of jobs, growth and development. that is why we are concerned about the slow growth of world trade and why we continue to defend free trade vigorously against the emerging protectionist temptations. but the commission has also stressed very strongly that free trade must be fair if it is to have the support of our peoples and this parliament. to be in favour of free trade is not to be in favour of free trade under any conditions, on any terms, without reservation or regulation. the g20 has a key role to play in supporting a robust and rules-based multilateral trading system. we have stressed this point in our discussions at the g20 and the president of the commission has personally been involved in a fight which i know is very important to this parliament: defending the interests of the european steel industry and workers affected by a situation of global overcapacity and, let us say, chinese overcapacity. this is also an issue on which an important step was taken in hangzhou, with the g20 agreement, to form a global forum on steel capacity with the support of the oecd and of course the approval of the chinese presidency. fair international taxation is another essential condition for restoring our citizens' confidence in the global economy and also for enabling government to provide the investments and services so necessary to our economies. all companies, i keep saying here, as the tax commissioner, must pay their fair share of taxes in the countries where they make their profits. you know that the european union is at the forefront of these efforts and that it has already adopted several very ambitious proposals last year. we were encouraged to see the g20 countries as a whole once again firmly and strongly committed not only to implementing past agreements but also to going further in the wake of the panama papers, which, it is true, continues to weigh on people's minds. the g20 therefore agreed to establish a list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for the next summit in 2017 and to consider defensive measures in case of non-compliance. this international g20 list is complementary to the list that the european union itself is about to launch and which should also be operational in 2017, with the issues that are complementary and which, i believe, fit well together. the g20 will continue to lead the work of the fatf in the fight against terrorist financing. the leaders called for swift and resolute implementation of its new strategy against terrorist financing and for enhanced coordination with those outside the task force, particularly vulnerable countries. the hangzhou meeting also provided an opportunity to discuss the reform of financial regulation, which, i would remind you, was a flagship initiative of the g20. the focus is now on the consistent implementation of agreed reforms, such as the basel iii framework and its finalisation by the end of 2016. the chinese presidency also intensified discussions on the international financial architecture. we know there is continuing risk to the global economy. the unanimous agreement to maintain a strong imf with sufficient resources is a welcome achievement. last year in antalya, we called on the g20 to recognize the refugee crisis for what it is: a global challenge that requires a global response. with the help of this parliament, the european union has put in place a comprehensive package of measures to manage this crisis, but we can only meet this challenge if the international community as a whole makes a concerted effort. we have sent a clear message to our g20 partners that we want the level of solidarity between nations needed to solve this still-missing problem to emerge now. the answer is one of resolute but cautious optimism. g20 members said they were ready to share the burden of the refugee crisis, specifically calling for increased financial assistance and resettlement of refugees. the g20's cooperation to support development, food security, particularly in africa, is also important from the point of view of controlling migration flows. the summit also provided an opportunity for the g20 to reaffirm its commitment to the paris agreement. the pace of ratification is good and it is now very likely that the threshold for the entry into force of the agreement - i am talking about cop 21 - will be reached this year. the main message from the european union to the g20 members in this regard is that they must act now just as quickly to implement this agreement. of course, as you can imagine, many of the leaders at the summit wanted to hear the european public's response to the uk referendum. president juncker reassured them that we were ready to deal with this once the uk government had communicated its intentions. you know that the commission has appointed its negotiator, my compatriot, the french commissioner's predecessor, michel barnier. we want to build a new partnership with britain that works for everyone. i always think of one formula, and i share it with the british government: britain, by its own choice, will no longer be a member of the european union after these negotiations, but it will remain a european nation that is decisive for a whole series of policies that we have to pursue together. at the same time, the president stressed that there was much that the eu-27 could achieve together. that is our objective for the future and it is in that spirit that the president will address the house tomorrow in his state of the union address, speaking at the same time of the europe of the 28, which is ours, the europe of the 27, which is our future, and the europe of the 19, that of the euro zone, which is the beating heart of europe. but i do not want to prejudge what he will say to you, i think it will be an important moment for the commission, for parliament, for the european union, before the meeting of the leaders of the 27 which will take place in bratislava on 16 september. these are some of the things i wanted to share with you. i would not like to go on, i can come back later to this g20 meeting, which i believe was once again organised in an impressive way by china, very well conducted by the chinese president, with many results that are quite in line with what the european union could expect.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i am grateful for the invitation to discuss the outcome of the g20 summit which took place last week in china and where the european union was represented by president tusk and president juncker. g20 leaders discussed various topics of global importance and, crucially, issues on which the g20 should provide leadership. i will focus on issues which i find are of particular relevance from the point of view of the council, including migration, the global economy, trade, taxation and climate. let me start with an issue which is very high on our agenda, namely the management of migration. i consider the g20’s recognition of the current crisis as an issue of global concern to be a very positive signal. the eu has stated in international forums on various occasions that migration requires efficient and coordinated action and it calls for all stakeholders to take responsibility in a spirit of partnership and burden sharing. the eu and its member states are fully assuming their responsibilities, but expect other partners, namely our g20 partners, also to do their part. the communiqué by g20 leaders is a step in the right direction, as it calls for scaled-up support to refugees and host communities. the eu will certainly use the opportunity of the forthcoming new york summit on refugees and migration, which you will discuss with high representative mogherini later today, to take the g20 conclusions forward and pursue more equitable sharing of responsibility for what is clearly a global challenge. my second point is the global economy. g20 leaders in china pointed to the progressing global economic recovery, while recognising that growth was still weaker than desirable and that downside risks remained. challenges originating from geopolitical developments were also mentioned. accordingly, leaders declared their determination to use all policy tools –monetary, fiscal and structural – individually and collectively to achieve the intended growth. importantly, there was the recognition that growth needs to be inclusive in order to ensure that it serves the needs of everyone and benefits all countries and people so that no one is left behind. this is recognised in the hangzhou action plan, which summarises the main commitments by g20 members. the g20 summit also made a strong case for international trade as a driver of global economic recovery. to this end, g20 leaders committed to strengthening an open world economy by working towards trade and investment facilitation and liberalisation. the establishment of the g20 trade and investment working group is an important step in this regard. the g20 reaffirmed its commitment to the multilateral trading system, with the wto at its core, and to advancing the post—nairobi work in the wto, including the outstanding issues of the doha development round, with a view to achieving positive outcomes at the next wto ministerial conference in 2017. i also welcome the g20 commitment to ratifying the trade facilitation agreement by the end of this year and its call for other wto members to do the same. the eu, for its part, has already ratified. however, we need to recognise that anti-globalisation sentiment and opposition to trade are increasing. the g20 therefore emphasised the need to communicate the benefits of trade and open markets more effectively and to ensure that the benefits of trade are spread more widely. it also recognised the structural problems caused by excess capacity in some industries, most notably in the steel sector, and agreed that this required a collective response. g20 leaders therefore agreed to establish a global forum on steel access capacity, which should report to the relevant g20 ministers in 2017. let me mention two more issues. taxation is another priority that the eu shares with the g20. i particularly welcome the establishment of the g20/oecd inclusive framework for the implementation of the base erosion and profit shifting initiative (beps) as well as its first meeting in kyoto. the eu has pioneered beps implementation with the recent adoption of the anti-tax avoidance directive (atad), but timely, consistent and widespread implementation of the beps package at global level remains critical in order to establish an international level playing field and avoid further loopholes. i am also satisfied with the endorsement of the proposal for objective criteria to identify non-cooperative jurisdictions with respect to tax transparency and with the objective to prepare, by july 2017, a list of jurisdictions that have not yet sufficiently progressed towards a satisfactory level of implementation, as well as to consider defensive measures against them. following the adoption of conclusions on taxation last may, the council has already started to determine, on the basis of a first screening by the commission, non-cooperative third country jurisdictions with which dialogues should begin during the course of next year. the objective is to establish an eu list of such jurisdictions and explore defensive measures at eu level, in the tax as well as in the non-tax area, to be endorsed by the council by the end of this year. finally, the g20 summit reaffirmed the commitment of its members to sustainable development and strong and effective action to tackle climate change. the g20 leaders are committed to countries’ ratifying and implementing in a timely fashion all aspects of the paris climate agreement, including financial assistance for developing countries. in particular, the g20 supported efforts to enable the paris agreement to enter into force by the end of 2016.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reglobalization, rule sharing and inclusion: the g20's key words are these, but they must be implemented now so that they are not empty words. reglobalization, because we have a duty, as the european union, first of all, to create a new globalization that assesses the impact of global phenomena, trade agreements, the digital revolution, migration flows and introduces appropriate corrective measures to leave no one behind. sharing, because we need rules and trust between partners. the establishment of a forum to monitor excess capacity, starting with steel, is a first positive sign. finally, inclusion, so that everyone is part of it and does their part. significantly for the first time this summit recognises the importance of women's inclusion as drivers of growth. in the face of the failures of the old globalisation, a protectionist response is as easy as it is harmful. it's up to us to come up with a new proposal that keeps the world connected without leaving anyone behind.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the last g20 meeting in china did not produce the results that we would all have the right to expect from such a summit, nor the decisions that the gravity of the world situation would require. however, positions which are useful for moving towards a more genuine and more shared progress have emerged and in some cases have been affirmed. i would like to emphasize the few positive factors, rather than the problematic ones, which are there, especially in terms of omissions. i believe that a reality such as the european union must demonstrate its capacity to design and implement in order to be credible in the world and thus to have an impact on it. firstly, there is support for the fight against climate change. now that the major polluters in the world - i am thinking of the united states and china - have ratified the paris agreement, the european union must not only ensure that all member states do so swiftly, but also ensure that the third countries involved do the same. the green finance initiative and the proposal to channel a significant share of the funds currently allocated to fossil fuels towards clean energy solutions should also be considered in this context. in this sense, we expect the commission to give substance to the circular economy project. the declaration to build an open and resilient financial system based on international cooperation on taxation and financial transparency is also an element that should not be overlooked, but it must be put into practice very quickly. i hope that this parliament will want to tackle these issues and that the commission will do so as soon as possible with the 2017 work plan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i confess that i expected better conclusions from the g20 discussion. it is true that we must increase the economy and recognize that without widespread and uniform growth the dramatic social and economic problems facing the world will not be solved, but we must also make proposals that are consistent with this assumption and these proposals are not there. to have sustainable growth, we need to have strict environmental standards to meet. there are no such things, and the respect for existing rules, as you know, is very lax. secondly, we must have an economic policy based on a common fiscal policy. i am very grateful to you for your work, but i must say that the world pays very little attention to fiscal policy. competition between product quality and production systems has been replaced by competition based on tax avoidance. i believe that this direction must be radically changed and that europe can set a good example by solving the problems you are dealing with.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions of the g20 on immigration seem to be a mere acknowledgement of the gravity of the crisis and a useless rhetorical exercise. it has preferred to postpone rather than to intervene with concrete solutions. it is absurd that only 1 paragraph out of 48 has been devoted to the topic of immigration (one has to wonder what world the g20 leaders are living in!), a paragraph that many, including amnesty, have called hypocritical because the demand for greater burden sharing by countries that do not take responsibility first sounds like an empty and ridiculous appeal. currently, only 27 countries in the world have regular refugee resettlement programs, and only 9 of these are part of the g20. and i'm not convinced by tusk, who says that europe is reaching its limit: 86% of displaced people are in developing countries. what are we talking about? we would be more credible in calling for a greater global sharing effort if we set an example by doing it internally.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your debate reflects both your interest in the conclusions of the g20 and also a number of frustrations, which i can understand, both about the very conduct of the meeting and its conclusions. what we all need to be aware of here - i say this to those who would have liked to have this or that subject discussed - is the nature of the g20. the g20 was created in the context of the economic and financial crisis of 2008-2013 to primarily discuss economic and financial issues. of course, geopolitical, strategic topics - syria, for example - were also discussed. of course, there was a whole discussion on the role of turkey in the presence of president erdogan, but the main objective was to take stock of the economic policy followed by the major countries on a global scale and to arrive at a number of guidelines. i say guidelines because the g20 is also not a place where extremely operational conclusions can be adopted. there are some, i have mentioned, which concern the question of overcapacity, but the g20 on the one hand sets out signals which are very important for the world economy and on the other hand gives a number of institutions - the fatf, the oecd - the tasks to be pursued. with this understanding of your frustrations, i also believe that the quality of this particular g20 meeting should not be underestimated. we could have hoped for more and more, as always, and you also hope for more and more with your different sensitivities, which is quite natural. i believe that there is an opportunity in this g20 to seize the opportunity in global cooperation and we must demand of our g20 partners that they use this cooperation to promote first of all solid and comprehensive growth that can deliver tangible benefits to our fellow citizens, and then free and fair trade relations, again to the benefit of all, and finally more inclusive societies. the european union brings to the debate a valuable experience, that of the most advanced and successful integration on a continental scale in a large internal market, which makes us europeans the world's leading economic power, and also a political model, a social model, a cultural model. we have shared this experience in hangzhou, both through the role of the president of the council and the president of the commission, but also through the european countries which are present in large numbers and in strength, because they are large economies. i believe we have obtained results which reinforce a number of our priorities, which converge with them, and i have spoken, for example, of the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. this is a subject on which, for years, the g20 has been the venue for a strategy implemented through the oecd with the beps initiative, and which is consistent with our own priorities and the action which, on behalf of the commission, i am trying to push for a taxation that is both more transparent and more efficient. we shall have many more meetings on this subject in the months ahead. it is true that you both mentioned the situation in britain and brexit. i do not want to go back to what i said at the beginning, but perhaps one point, which concerns the negotiation of free trade agreements. president juncker's conclusion and our partners' reaction to this have been extremely clear. as we speak, the negotiations on britain's withdrawal have not yet begun. we expect this to happen as soon as possible, understanding that it takes a little time to prepare, to set priorities, but not too much time if we want the uncertainty not to spread and end up penalizing investment and economic activity. then the negotiation will begin. in the meantime - and parliament heard mr king yesterday, who is the commissioner who is expected to represent the united kingdom - britain is a member of the european union and it is therefore the european union's responsibility to negotiate free trade agreements and it is the commission's responsibility to do so on behalf of the european union. so let us not have a curious operation here temporarily, with bilateral negotiations, when the negotiation between britain and the european union has not started and the european union itself has its initiative. i was talking about europe. let us not forget one very important factor, which is that germany will be taking over the presidency of the g20 in december. it is, of course, an opportunity for us, the european union, to work with a country of the union, a major partner of the world community which knows, which by definition shares, the priorities of the european union. i expect a lot from mr schäuble, as german minister for economic affairs and finance during this presidency, at the level of the ministers for economic affairs and finance preparing the g20, and also from the german presidency afterwards at the summit which will conclude it. the commission will work closely with the german presidency to prepare the next g20 summit in hamburg on 7 and 8 july 2017. we hope that some of the priority areas on which agreement has been reached this time can be further improved and we will work quickly to ensure that there are strong priorities that are affirmed. there is no time to lose and, once again, i wanted to present these g20 conclusions as objectively as possible, being aware of the limitations inherent in the exercise, but also of the undeniable quality of this meeting, both in its form and in its substance. i thank you for your time and your more than judicious observations.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for all the speeches and comments. they confirm your huge interest in the agenda that was a subject of discussion at the g20 meeting in in china. many issues were raised: economic growth, migration, free trade, tax evasion, steel, china, the paris agreement and many others. i tried to present how we viewed the discussion on those issues in my initial statement. i share the views expressed by commissioner moscovici when he spoke on behalf of the commission. all these items are extremely important. i dare say that we, as a union, have a clearly defined interest in those areas, but i think that the g20 summit in china has reminded us once again that this is maybe the time for us to pull together, as a union, to work on those items in order to have an even better position when we try to protect the interests of the union and its citizens on the global stage. we are committed as a presidency to working intensively with you, parliament, and the commission on all the points mentioned so that, as i said, we can make progress and strengthen our position on the global stage. finally, two issues were raised which are part of our presidency’s responsibility. mr telička asked about our further steps as the presidency when it comes to ttip. i can say that this will be very high on the agenda for the upcoming foreign affairs trade council, which will take place on 23 september in bratislava. i believe this is the place where we member states, together with the commission, should assess where we stand in negotiations with the united states. this may be, i dare say, the last moment for us to consolidate our position together and look where progress is still possible in the remaining time of the obama administration. but we are aware that our mandate says very clearly where our offensive interests lie, and we as a presidency will do our utmost to ensure that those interests are protected. on the paris agreement, which was also mentioned several times, i can assure you that we as a presidency are currently trying to agree on a clear timetable that will allow the ratification of the paris agreement on behalf of the european union so as to ensure the participation of the eu at the upcoming cop 22 marrakesh meeting on global climate change. finally, i should have said at the beginning – but i came late and i apologise for that – that we as a presidency are trying to control the agenda. i found out this morning that i was not able to control the traffic in strasbourg, but it was a very nice walk. at the last moment i had to leave my car somewhere in germany and i apologise once again for this.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. at the g20 hangzhou summit on 4 and 5 september, the eu reiterated the need for joint action to achieve objectives such as the fight against international terrorism and corruption, increased cooperation in the field of taxation, combating overproduction in the steel sector and finally resolving the migration and refugee crisis. the g20 summit's responses to these last two priorities are particularly noteworthy. finally, there is a growing awareness that we must tackle together the effects of the migration crisis that has hit europe, in order to respond to the needs of refugees for protection and to the root causes of a crisis that has caused the death of thousands of human lives. moreover, as promised by the g20 leaders, a collective response will be needed to combat the excess production of some countries in the steel sector, china over all. it would therefore be useful to set up a specific forum to monitor these countries and thus combat a phenomenon which is likely to endanger production in the steel sector and the millions of workers who work in what must remain a vital sector for european and italian industry.
the agenda includes the report by pablo zalba bidegain and gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector (2016/2090(ini)) (a8-0246/2016).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the low expectations for the effectiveness of the committee of inquiry, i believe that its work is yielding a number of significant elements which are useful in identifying the shortcomings, the weaknesses, the opacity of the whole system of vehicle typeapproval and emission control. one thing is for sure: the defeat devices are just the tip of the iceberg of the entire system. i do not want to dwell on the report, but i would like to take this opportunity of speaking in plenary to denounce publicly that the report on the investigation into euro 5 diesel cars sold in italy, a report drawn up by the italian ministry of infrastructure and transport, is an insult to the work of the committee of inquiry of this parliament and above all is gravely offensive to european citizens, who deserve seriousness, competence and maximum transparency from the institutions. the report is intentionally incomplete and omissive: the investigations into the 15 cars initially mentioned in the report follow different procedures depending on whether they are cars of the fca group or not; the commission has also taken the view that the aid granted to the italian authorities is compatible with the internal market. the traces of some fiat and jeep models are completely lost, literally disappearing from the charts and tables in the document. it just so happens that these are the models for which there are the strongest suspicions of illegal devices, in one case devices that seem to turn off after twenty-two minutes, exactly two minutes after the end of the type approval test cycle and, in the other, a model that in the hot test has shown emissions of nitrogen oxides three times the norm. we are facing a clumsy attempt to hide the real values of fiat cars. the five star movement proposes that this report be returned to the sender, which is an insult to the emis committee, parliament and the italian and european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the committee of inquiry has made it clear that the volkswagen scandal is only the tip of the iceberg. it's not just the fraudulent use of devices designed to protect engines in particular conditions, it's more. as early as 2007, but officially since 2011, it was known that cars on the road had 7-8 times higher emissions than those tested in the laboratory during the homologation process. it is a serious fraud against users and a blow to the air quality of our cities, a fraud all the more serious because the technologies to reduce nox emissions have been around for a long time. that is why it is essential to move forward with real-world emissions controls on the road, to change the type approval rules profoundly, to go beyond controls which are only entrusted to individual national states and to have clearer and stricter rules for consumer protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed the leading role of the european union in the fight against environmental pollution: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's emissions trading system is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. however, such leadership comes with obligations. the commission of inquiry into dieselgate which this parliament has set up must send a strong signal of great rigour and thoroughness in its conduct of the inquiry, so that the world does not have to say that europe is the first to break those rules. we must take a firm stand, and if necessary have the courage to denounce any failure to take appropriate measures to enforce the explicit ban on handling equipment. the credibility of the european union also depends very much on this inquiry.
i thank all the speakers, the rapporteurs and the commissioner for this in-depth debate. the vote on this report will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 12.20 p.m. and resumed at 12.30 p.m.)
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the oral amendment introduces support for the coordination of mountain rescue services.
author. – mr president, i would like to move the oral amendment as tabled. you can find it at the end of your voting list.
author. – mr president, again i would like to move the oral amendment as tabled. you can find it at the end of your voting list. if you want me to read it, i can read it. it is long.
author. – mr president, the oral amendment covers here the split vote with the addition of the word ‘particularly’. and then you can find the entire amendment at the end of your voting list. but, if you want, i can read it all.
author. – i think you know what i am going to say. (laughter)i would like to move the oral amendment as tabled. you can find it at the end of your voting list. (applause and laughter)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it is a comprehensive and convincing text and i believe that assessing the implementation of research and innovation strategies is very important in order to guide the european programming that is under way. unfortunately, many countries - including italy - are still lagging behind in terms of public investment in innovation and technological research, and this gap needs to be closed as soon as possible for the benefit of the whole economy, especially at a time when innovation is a valid response to the crisis. the ris are also essential for the implementation of cohesion policy itself. only innovative solutions can and should be used, for example, to increase the administrative capacity of local authorities. the small and mediumsized enterprises are also asking for this, because they are forced to deal with systems which are still archaic and complex. i support an assessment and review in 2017 of what has been done to date to make up for the backlog and to meet commitments.
in writing. ‒ the smart specialisation strategy (ris3) comprises multiple policies covering different areas such as entrepreneurship, education and innovation and is therefore a key element for the allocation of eu funds to member states and regions. given the crucial role of smes and start-ups in regional development, the importance of business support systems and the need to adopt reliable systems to monitor efficiency at all levels of governance, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the valcárcel siso report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. this is an important text that underlines the need to step up efforts to create smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. this is a necessary choice, especially at a time when europe still seems to be suffering the effects of the world economic crisis. the report stresses the central role of the ris3 in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, while highlighting those aspects which should be considered of particular importance, i.e. first and foremost the correct analysis of the priorities, strengths and potential of the different regions, but also the use of appropriate methodologies which provide for the development of periodic quantitative and qualitative monitoring. the development of participatory processes and the creation of synergies between public and private actors is another crucial point closely linked to the theme of multilevel governance. a serious bottom-up approach needs to be revived as soon as possible to foster new synergies and innovation-driven growth.
in writing. ‒ the report on research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation is well thought out and shareable, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ national or regional innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) are a key element of the reform of the eu's cohesion policy, which aims to bring innovation to the regions, encouraging them to create synergies between themselves and with the territory, as well as strengthening strategic planning, which is an even more important element in times of crisis and lack of available resources for many territories. if we want the european union to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, we must involve the regions and local authorities, supporting innovation that starts from the territories and gives strength to all those local and regional entities that produce wealth and jobs despite the crisis and on whose prosperity a significant part of national and european gross domestic product depends, today and tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because strengthening research, technological development and innovation is of fundamental importance for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. in particular, national or regional innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) are needed to foster a more efficient use of the european structural and investment funds and to support the transition to a smart and sustainable economy. within the framework of the innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3), i believe that regions should develop innovative support services schemes that complement or replace existing support services in order to enable a given region to fully exploit its competitive potential, help businesses absorb new knowledge and technologies to remain competitive, and ensure that research and innovation resources reach a critical mass.
in writing. ‒ the report on the 'ris3' (research, innovation and smart specialisation strategy) or smart specialisation has several positive points. first, it is recalled that public funding remains a powerful driver of innovation. the authorities concerned are urged to be cautious in focusing more on financial instruments as innovation should not be focused on grants alone but should also be able to identify alternative means of financing such as loans and guarantees. the importance of consulting enterprises and smes in particular is emphasised, as the 'innovation vision' will only be successful if enterprises also realise the corresponding potential. finally, local and regional decision-makers are reminded of the importance of their commitment to using csr3 as an instrument for economic transformation in their region and thus, ("optimistically"), to influence eu policy. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the final text.
in writing. ‒ in response to the economic crisis and in an effort to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, strengthening technological development and innovation has become one of the investment priorities for the european union. to this end, the cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) aims to make the union's economy more competitive by developing european added value in these areas. in this respect, i believe that ris3 policy should be based on joint participation and multi-level governance. member states should not miss the opportunity to involve regional and local authorities, which are closest to small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups, pioneers of innovation, in the development of strategies. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of ris3 strategies and encourage the participation of civil society, which is too often limited, through collaborative platforms and partnerships. finally, synergy between the structural and investment funds (sif) and the other eu financial instruments available under ris3, such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), must be considered necessary to unlock the potential of research and innovation in enterprises and maximise their results. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr valcarcel siso on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3). this is a very good report that shows how ris3 strategies contribute to europe's growth in both innovation and employment, in line with the europe 2020 objectives. the report calls for ris3 strategies to be an ex ante conditionality for the allocation of esi funds, and proposes balanced and knowledge-based growth not only in well-developed regions but also in less developed or transition areas. i congratulate my colleague on his excellent work.
in writing. ‒ smes are essential to the economies of eu regions in terms of employment and competitiveness. over the last decade, smes have created 85% of european jobs and in 2015 they contributed up to 71% of employment growth in the non-financial trading economy. through the esi funds, in particular thematic objective 3, we can help to further improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and their capacity to generate good employment. eur 63 billion is planned for the period 2014-2020 to support over 800 000 smes. the financial part, however, is only one aspect. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the community's financial instruments. the report rightly stresses the need to simplify administrative procedures and the role of local authorities, particularly by providing the necessary technical assistance. with closer cooperation at all levels we can certainly improve both the absorption of resources and the capacity of smes to contribute to european socioeconomic growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important that the european union continues to strengthen its capacity to innovate in the face of increasing global competition. i also support investment in research and smart specialisation strategies to provide innovative and competitive services, economic growth and new jobs.
in writing. ‒ in a time of economic recession and budgetary constraints, and in a context of increasingly fierce global competition, it is vital that the european union continues to strengthen its capacity to innovate. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation because it highlights the aspects to which the strategies should pay particular attention, such as: the analysis of the priorities, strengths and potential of each region; the development of periodic quantitative and qualitative monitoring; the development of participatory processes; the creation of synergies between public and private actors; coordination between all levels of governance and services. each eu country should do its utmost to promote synergies between these instruments and to use resources in the most efficient way.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the report because i am in favour of greater and continuous monitoring of the innovation strategy for smart specialisation.
in writing. – this is a very important report and it aims to increase the impact of the esi funds on for example job creation and growth. the report outlines that the regions should develop ris3 strategies based on analyses of competences, assets and more. it is important that these ris3 strategies are developed on a regional level so that no growth opportunities are not lost. i also support the report in its assessment that more synergies are needed across different eu funding instruments, such as esi. these obstacles hinders the coordination and the coherence of eu funding and reduces their overall impact.
in writing. ‒ a better coordination of resources from europe is a crucial requirement for growth. the role of local and regional authorities is essential to this objective. the report we have approved stresses that strategic specialisation for innovation must also and necessarily be matched by complementarity between all the funds available. the economic and financial crisis and the resulting cuts in public budgets require the territories to make an effort to rationalise their investment capacity for innovation; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) because i firmly believe that in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu must step up its efforts to create smart, sustainable but above all inclusive economic growth. innovation must be the key to strengthening synergies between member states for growth and job creation, and eu urban areas must play a key role in this process by becoming catalysts for smart specialisation strategies. regions and cities, as in puglia, must act as poles for various actors and sectors, facing the challenges and opportunities for smart growth, and pioneering the integrated territorial approach.
in writing. the following motion for a resolution aims at achieving sustainable growth based on knowledge, harmonious development and job creation, not only in well-developed areas but also in transition regions and less developed, rural and island regions. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the application of the union acquis on the internal market and the functioning of the internal market. this is the context in which ris3 is being implemented, which is the condition through which eu member states and regions, which have their own ris3 strategy, can be granted european structural and investment funds (the so-called esi funds). i therefore believe that the above strategies are a tool for promoting employment growth in europe and that in order to contribute to the successful implementation of these strategies, simplification and coordination of existing programmes are essential.
in writing. – regarding the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation, i voted in favour, as the report highlights the need to develop sustainable and inclusive economic growth. the european union has room for improvement, and, therefore, i find essential the need for technological development, education, specialisation strategies, and innovation, during these times of economic, financial, and social crisis the union is undergoing. only by improving these areas is the eu able to develop a more competitive economy, allowing for the creation of more and better high-quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the capacity to innovate is essential for the union's economic recovery in the face of the complex context of economic recession and increasing competitive pressures on global markets. smart specialisation strategies aim to achieve sustainable, knowledge-based growth and quality jobs across the union, with a particular focus on those regions in transition or less developed. the report proposed by the european parliament, which identifies the main opportunities for improvement in smart specialisation strategies and aims to exploit their full potential, is therefore to be welcomed. in particular, the report highlights the need for constant monitoring of ris3 strategies in order to keep them up to date, given the high dynamism of the innovation sector. furthermore, as smart specialisation strategies support the programmes of the structural investment funds and contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategic objectives, it is important that synergies be achieved between the various financial instruments of the union. by presenting this report, the european parliament is also advocating a necessary change of mindset to promote a bottom-up approach, as the multi-level governance system has not been properly exploited so far.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because i believe it is important that the european union continues to invest and strengthen research and innovation, even in the current period of economic recession and the resulting budgetary constraints. through the european regional development fund (erdf), the regions will concentrate their investments in rdi through smart specialisation strategies. therefore, ris3 is an ex ante condition for the granting of european structural and investment funds (esi funds) to eu member states and regions. following the publication of the strategies, it is necessary to better identify the actions to be taken in the coming years to make the ris3 strategies more effective and efficient. this report focuses on the main areas where improvements to ris3 should be made.
in writing. ‒ the european regional development fund (erdf) states that in the 2014-2020 programming period, regions should focus investments in rdi through smart specialisation strategies. in this context, ris3 is an ex ante condition for the granting of european structural and investment funds (esi funds) to eu member states and regions. the granting of these funds can only take place, as a matter of right, following the achievement of certain objectives, among which are: the development of periodic quantitative and qualitative monitoring; the development of participatory processes; involving stakeholders, with a particular focus on the private sector; creating synergies between public and private actors; coordinating across all levels of governance and identifying alternative funding modalities. i believe it is vital that the european union continues to strengthen its capacity to invest in research and development. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the existence of research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) is one of the ex ante conditions for the granting of european structural and investment funds to eu member states and regions for the 2014-2020 programming period. in order to successfully pursue this new strategic approach, it is important that the implementation of these strategies is based on local and regional strengths. the regions are in a favourable position to choose the right priorities, starting from the strengthening of their respective characteristics, potential and competitive advantages. research and innovation are important factors in boosting growth. some 121 ris3 strategies are currently in place at national and regional level. it is expected that up to 2020 as much as eur 250 billion will be mobilised. to continue in this direction, innovative policy approaches need to be promoted to boost interregional collaboration, simplify procedures and reduce bottlenecks in the administrative process of strategies, improve synergies between esi funds and other eu financial instruments, and provide more support to smes and start-ups. these are some of the recommendations made in the report, which i fully support. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that territorial cooperation is essential for the implementation of cohesion policy, and cooperation with border countries cannot be ignored. for border regions, such as my own, sicily in southern italy, cooperation with neighbouring regions is essential to growth and to achieving development results based on the exploitation of the same resources: a common culture, a common tradition and, above all, a common history. the aim of territorial cooperation is to grow together, which is a concept that border regions know very well, as well as to face the same difficulties. the commission should therefore certainly expand and encourage territorial cooperation programmes and place them in the wider context of the new challenges facing the union: first of all, as we know, migration and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation (etc) is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 cohesion policy. it plays a key role in research and development. this is why monitoring systems and evaluation plans are needed to ensure greater transparency in order to achieve the objectives of territorial integration. at the same time, however, i do not think that a wider use of financial instruments, together with grants, is appropriate for the implementation of european territorial cooperation programmes. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of european territorial cooperation is to reduce the influence of national borders in order to reduce disparities between regions and the remaining obstacles to investment and crossborder cooperation activities. the mihaylova report, which i supported with my vote, effectively underlines the role of the cte in cohesion policy, while stressing its limited funding which does not seem to be commensurate with the high added value it is able to bring in areas such as transport, the environment, health and innovation. in the near future, the etc needs to be strengthened by further strengthening its innovative dimension. the involvement of more private actors needs to be encouraged, generating successful cross-border public-private partnerships and enabling the implementation and dissemination of integrated approaches. the harmonisation of planning instruments, administrative procedures and cross-border legal provisions is a further step which can ensure a real strengthening of cohesion and an effective promotion of the economic, social and cultural development of the union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report analysing best practice in funding for territorial cooperation is balanced and shareable. our northern regions have already shown themselves capable of exploiting these development opportunities by working with partners such as austria and slovenia; i therefore intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ if we are aware that the european union is our common home, it is natural to promote cooperation between each other and between the lower administrative institutions of the member states. the quality of this cooperation has important implications both in terms of the efficiency of the institutions and of services to the citizen and in direct economic terms. the eurobarometer data show that more cross-border cooperation is needed for the implementation of joint programmes, for which both the use and access of funds and the management of the programme must be simplified. too often citizens are not aware of the impact of programmes on their territory, their activation, the possible positive effects in terms of services offered and job opportunities. we must realise that the first step towards a europe closer to the citizen is a europe that communicates better and makes the results of its work understandable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because european territorial cooperation (etc) has been re-imagined to achieve greater impact and more effective use of investment through focus on thematic concentration and result orientation. i think that the new european territorial cooperation (etc) is of primary importance because it can contribute to the growth of the economic, social and territorial potential of the regions, reflecting and integrating different sectoral policies at the territorial level, transcending national borders. however, i think that the implementation and management of programmes and projects for european territorial cooperation should be made less bureaucratic. on the one hand, the commission should harmonise the rules and models for european territorial cooperation programmes. on the other hand, member states should simplify their national provisions in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens not attributable to community legislation. i think it is essential to promote european territorial cooperation in research and innovation, such as joint research projects and cooperation between research institutes and businesses, the establishment of international crossborder universities, crossborder research centres, crossborder training institutes, the creation of crossborder business clusters and networks, crossborder incubators and consultancy services for smes.
in writing. ‒ the report in question gives a fairly comprehensive and detailed state of the art of the objectives, aims and the criticality of the new european territorial cooperation (etc) framework, with several positive points and others, however, that i do not fully share. among the most controversial aspects is the use of financial instruments in the etc programmes, particularly when encouraging a wider use of financial instruments as flexibility mechanisms to be used in parallel with grants or when claiming that financial instruments should be an integral part of european territorial cooperation programmes. nor is it acceptable to have a paragraph on private investment which, however, in the face of a recommendation on the possible benefits of public-private partnerships, stresses the risk of conflict of interest, which should be adequately addressed through binding and non-binding legal instruments. for these reasons i have decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation (etc) is one of the two pillars of the eu's cohesion policy and a key initiative in promoting peace, stability and integration between european regions, and allows the benefits of the internal market to be fully realised. in the 25 years of its existence, it has provided important added value, especially in addressing cross-border challenges, and can represent an opportunity for european regions, especially those most exposed to the migration crisis, to find solutions and common approaches through the exchange of good practices. in view of these positive outcomes and the potential of the programme, i believe that the budget of eur 10.1 billion (representing only 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget) will not be able to meet the major challenges facing the etc. as with many complex programmes, the success of the etc depends very much on the administrative procedures required for its implementation. for these reasons we have asked the commission to reduce the administrative burden and to harmonize the procedures for the etc programmes. in the light of these considerations, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support what is said in mrs mihaylova's report, as european territorial cooperation has enabled a lot of progress in terms of connectivity and innovation, especially in the eu's border regions. territorial cooperation is one of the europe 2020 cohesion objectives and provides a framework for the implementation of joint actions and policy exchanges between national, regional and local actors in the different member states. i think it is essential to give adequate support to a project which has been implementing economic, social and territorial development for 25 years in the most harmonious way possible, as this is one of the priorities for my territory. the added value of the etc is evident in a number of ways, ranging from improved regional connectivity to greater accessibility to services for citizens, thereby allowing for faster transfer of knowledge and innovation, which in turn translates into greater competitiveness for our businesses. in this way, in addition to creating numerous business and institutional partnerships, it has also helped to enhance the image and identity of the region itself.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that better connectivity at community, national and regional level is essential for the development of the eu. the text sets as one of its objectives the improvement of the quality of transport, health and education and a greater common commitment to safeguarding the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this report underlines the need for greater integration and complementarity between interreg programmes and other programmes funded at both national and eu level, such as horizon 2020, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the european investment bank.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report and also wish for more cooperation with the private sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve this reports as it outlines several possible improvements in the area of etc and aims to strengthen the program and its role in supporting cross-border initiatives. cross—border cooperation and initiatives are one of the things that lie at the heart of what the eu is as they bring citizens of different member states together in cooperation. the etc is also important when it comes to closing the gaps in cross-border governance and regulation, an issue that makes it harder to do business and to facilitate investment to these regional cross-border areas.
in writing. ‒ strengthening european territorial cooperation means investing in broad, democratic and smart growth, pursuing a plan of solidarity and socioeconomic inclusion, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, responding to the needs of different areas and territories but with common urgencies. i therefore believe that europe cannot accept further cuts in cohesion policies, but must instead firmly affirm the need to invest in the growth of individual territories in order to strengthen the european project as a whole. cohesion policies are crucial to achieving the objectives of europe 2020, and i therefore feel i must give my full support to the report, believing that the synergy between local and national governments and between metropolitan cities, regions and the different states is the true soul of europe, which finds its true driving force in respect for different identities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures, because i am strongly convinced of the european added value of the territorial cooperation instrument and of specific programmes such as the interreg programme, which has supported territorial development since 1990. it is essential to have an effective framework for crossborder cooperation given the high number of citizens living in crossborder regions with similar economic, financial and social difficulties. territorial cooperation is the answer to traditional challenges such as research, innovation, adaptation to climate change and the promotion of sustainable mobility and transport, but also to new challenges such as the management of migration flows and the low mobility of young people. i therefore share parliament's concerns about the lack of sufficient resources in the 2014-20 budget for territorial cooperation, and the need to increase funding if we want to see crossborder regions as laboratories for european integration. finally, i believe that the link between the interreg programme and the macro-regional strategies is very important and that it can become the financial arm for the development of the adriatic-ionian macro-region.
in writing. territorial cooperation, for the period 2014-2020, was considered with a view to achieving greater impact and appropriate use of investments. at least around 80% of the budget of each cooperation programme must be based on at least four thematic objectives, thus contributing to the europe 2020 strategy. the eec thus contributes to the economic, social and territorial growth of the regions by representing and integrating the different policies at the territorial level. it therefore remains a fundamental instrument for territorial cohesion, designed to solve problems that transcend administrative boundaries and require common solutions. for these reasons, i welcome the adoption of a new strategy aimed at the application of best practices and innovative measures for our country.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation, as i consider being of extreme importance the eu’s goal to make gender equality the main element in all policies and practices that relate to european territorial cooperation. the report emphasises the principles of shared management, multi-level governance and partnership, all relevant to manage the migration crisis, and contribute to peace, stability, and regional integration.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation is a cornerstone of cohesion policies and therefore contributes to the development of the economic, social and territorial potential of europe's regions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary policy in the member states. we therefore support the report on european territorial cooperation, because through it the european parliament explicitly calls on the commission and the member states to give european territorial cooperation a greater role in the context of cohesion policies in the future. the report clearly highlights the added value generated by initiatives under territorial cooperation, especially those supporting research and innovation, as well as strengthening the competitiveness of smes and tackling environmental challenges. the report also recognises the impact of these projects and the greater potential of crossborder and transnational cooperation by identifying best practices in a precise way. if we want to promote european integration at the service of citizens, it is essential to continue to support policies of territorial cooperation, and the european parliament is committed to this through the proposed report.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation is an important tool for cohesion policy designed to solve problems that transcend administrative boundaries and require common solutions. a specific regulation on european territorial cooperation (etc) actions, supported by the erdf, has been adopted for 2014-2020 and has been re-designed to achieve greater impact and more effective use of investment through a focus on thematic concentration and result orientation, achieving concrete progress in key areas such as connectivity, innovation and knowledge, culture and education. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ in my view, territorial cooperation between the different regions of the european union is one of the most important objectives of cohesion policy. a specific regulation on european territorial cooperation (etc) actions supported by the erdf has been adopted for 2014-2020. the 28 member states currently benefit from the etc, which has become one of the two objectives of cohesion policy. the total amount allocated is eur 10,1 billion. the added value of european territorial cooperation is mainly found in the exchange of good practice in transport management, the transfer of knowledge and innovation and the enhancement of the competitiveness of smes. i am a strong believer in collaboration between different local authorities and, in particular, i believe it is essential to invest in the skills of our local administrators by providing them with the appropriate tools and resources. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report makes recommendations for the future of european territorial cooperation to increase the economic, social and territorial potential of the eu's regions. the european added value of european territorial cooperation has been demonstrated in many areas: connectivity, mobility and regional access to services; knowledge and innovation transfer; environmental challenge management and disaster response; consolidation of cross-border network structures and creation of new partnerships. however, it is clear that the implementation and management phases of interreg programmes and projects need to be simplified and made less bureaucratic in order to exploit the full potential of this instrument. i therefore hope that this initiative of the european parliament will help to launch a structured debate among all stakeholders at eu level on the future of european territorial cooperation, with a view to preparing the post-2020 cohesion policy. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures. one of the main objectives of the report is to highlight the interest of the member states and the commission in preserving the etc as a significant and positive instrument for the european integration process, by giving the etc a key role in the post-2020 cohesion policy and by increasing its budget for the next programming period.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the interim report to support the difficult work of the committee of inquiry, but we must not hide from reality. two tendencies have already come into conflict in this committee: the european parliament has been called upon to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on this matter. the other trend is to water down facts and evidence to arrive at a self-acquittal that is convenient for certain political groups. the first thing to do is to answer the questions of the public, such as: the commission was aware of the discrepancies between laboratory and road tests, as former italian commissioner tajani himself admitted? and if he did, why did he keep quiet and do nothing for years? it is about the health and work of european citizens. we cannot tolerate any more ambiguity, much less indulge in a kind of omertà which in my country is called mafia.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between member states and the commission is essential for the proper conduct of the investigation into possible maladministration, both at european and national level, in the application of the legislation currently in force on passenger car emissions. in order to encourage and encourage this cooperation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the scandals that followed revelations of rigged devices used to reduce pollutant emissions during official car tests, the european parliament decided last december to set up a committee of inquiry. the aim is to examine complaints of infringement and maladministration in the application of union legislation on emission measurements in the automotive sector. the emis committee started its work in march, setting a precise timetable for the final report due in spring 2017. the interim report presented to parliament today, which i have decided to support with my vote, calls on the committee of inquiry to continue its work and to support all actions and initiatives aimed at ensuring that its mandate is fulfilled. the text calls on the member states and the commission to provide all the necessary technical and political support and in particular calls on the commission to submit rapidly the required documentation on vehicle emission measurements, including the work carried out by the joint research centre (jrc) and all records of the activities of the various expert groups dealing with legislation on vehicle type-approval procedures.
in writing. ‒ the report takes stock of the progress of the work of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector and provides a detailed outline of the future work programme. i think the text is clear, acceptable and free of criticism, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ on 16 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate infringements and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. the committee of inquiry was set up following revelations that the volkswagen group had circumvented the nox (nitrogen oxides) emission limits for diesel vehicles. the mandate of the european parliament must be respected and it is important that the european citizens are informed about what has happened and that the truth is established. the laws must be the same for everyone and those who have done wrong must be held accountable, both for the sake of justice and to avoid undermining citizens' confidence in the impartial role of guarantee and control played by the institutions.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i voted in favour of the interim report on the work done so far by the committee of inquiry set up by the european parliament in the wake of the volkswagen scandal over infringements of eu rules on car emissions measurements. the commission of inquiry will work for one year (we are halfway through its mandate), with the task of investigating the alleged failure of the commission to verify the test cycles used, the alleged failure of the commission and the member states authorities to take appropriate measures to enforce the explicit prohibition of 'manipulation devices' and the alleged failure of the commission to introduce tests reflecting real driving conditions. the european union is a world leader in the fight against environmental pollution. just think of the driving role it played in achieving the paris climate agreement or the role it is playing within icao in extending the ets scheme worldwide. the credibility of the european union in the eyes of the world also depends very much on this inquiry.
in writing. ‒ the report under consideration is the mid-term report by which the emis special committee of inquiry informs parliament of the progress of its work. there is no direct reference to the substance of the inquiry or to the verification of the conditions under which the eu and member states are applying the legislation on the control of emissions from passenger cars , but the report calls on member states and the commission to cooperate fully in providing all information useful to the inquiry. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the work of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurement in the automotive sector (emis) is indispensable to investigate alleged breaches of union law or cases of maladministration in the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. the recent scandals that have hit the automotive market and damaged european consumer confidence require us to establish whether the commission and the member states were aware of the use of tampering devices and also to collect reliable data on the application of the directive by the member states. i thought i would vote in favour of the interim report because i hope that the committee of inquiry will continue its work and carry out the mandate given to it. the report calls on the european commission to ensure that emis members receive all the technical and political support they need in full transparency. finally, i believe that the governments, national parliaments and the competent authorities of the member states must cooperate with the committee of inquiry in carrying out its tasks, in full respect of the principle of loyal cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of giving more support to the committee of inquiry into automotive emissions, given the seriousness and relevance of this sensitive issue for europe, its citizens and its industries. we are at a historical moment where growth can only be sustainable, so please have an impact on all: from the stockholders to the citizens, from the workers to the environment. to allow for effective evolution, it is necessary to ascertain the extent of the emission phenomenon and its multi-level legacies. in the face of the scandals that have emerged, however, it is all the more necessary to speed up the flow of information and documents between parliament and the member states in order to ensure transparency and fairness. while i am firmly convinced of this need, i hope that this cooperation between european and national bodies will develop within the boundaries of respect for the different jurisdictions and their respective competences. pending the final report, scheduled for 2 march 2017, i hope that the outcome of the investigation will shed light as soon as possible on the right and wrong behaviour to avoid the repetition of situations harmful to citizens in the future.
in writing. ‒ more than six months after the establishment of the committee of inquiry, decided in december 2015 following the discovery of the 'dieselgate' scandal, the european parliament today approved the interim report on emission measurements in the automotive sector. the work ahead of us in the coming months will be to go even deeper, to shed full light on the technical and political responsibilities and thus be able to correct the shortcomings which in recent years have allowed not only the use of manipulation devices but also the continuous exceeding of the emission limits of motor vehicles provided for by community law. i am confident and convinced that the results of the current survey can add value and provide a basis for a more stringent, integrated and, above all, transparent european regulatory framework. we must now look to the future and be able to restore european rules which finally guarantee an adequate level of health and safety for european citizens, so that we can regain their full confidence. we cannot allow a fraud of this magnitude to be repeated and that the unfair behaviour of some car manufacturers may harm millions of european consumers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of measuring emissions because i believe that the number of cars on the road should be monitored and regulated by legislation to limit air pollution. the dialogue on emissions must remain a priority for the european union to protect the environment and the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the positive vote on this interim report on the work of the committee of inquiry into the automobile sector is mainly due to the nature of the report itself, which is purely technical and procedural. the significant elements that emerged during the first half of the witness hearings and that will emerge in the coming months will be addressed in the final report. in this report, the european parliament stresses the need for cooperation between the member states and the commission in providing the information needed for the inquiry.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft report by the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector, which urgently needs further information from the european commission. i think it is essential to direct the work of the committee of inquiry not only to investigate what has happened in the past but also to put forward proposals to prevent something like this from happening in the future. for this to happen, the inquiry must focus on the responsibilities of the national authorities, because european democracy also means the responsibilities in europe of the national ministers. this crisis is also an opportunity to adapt the european automotive industry to the 21st century and to ensure a better future for the millions of families of workers in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the preliminary report presented by my colleagues on the special committee of inquiry into emissions from the motor vehicle sector, whose constructive tone i appreciated, with the aim of shedding light on and ensuring transparency on certain situations of great importance for environmental sustainability and industrial production in the european union. i join the call on the european commission to ensure timely support and full transparency in assisting the work of the committee of inquiry, in full respect of the principle of loyal cooperation between the european institutions. it will be essential to ensure effective and rapid access to the requested documents for parliament; i hope that this cooperation will be the basis for an approach of ever greater transparency and openness on the part of the council towards parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector by colleagues pablo zalba bidegain and gerben-jan gerbrandy, because i share the importance of the parliamentary inquiry and the call for all european institutions to support the commission's work in a constructive way. the scandal of emissions in the automobile sector last year is a dark page which deserves to be examined in detail in order to clarify any political responsibilities, and for this reason the socialist and democratic group has already pushed for the formation of a parliamentary body which, in compliance with national court systems, would verify any responsibilities of public regulators. i think that after six months the work of the committee of inquiry can be assessed positively and i hope that, thanks also to the cooperation of the political and administrative staff of the european commission, the inquiry can be concluded quickly and with excellent results.
in writing. the european parliament set up a committee of inquiry on emission measurement in the automotive sector (emis) on 17 december 2015. in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, we have decided to look at the situation and see how it was possible for volkswagen to use mechanisms to circumvent the rules on car type-approval in relation to emission levels. specifically, its function appears to be to collect and analyse information to determine whether the commission and the member states have evidence to determine whether manipulation mechanisms have actually been used that could alter the actual car emissions results. i think it is essential that we continue to carry out the most transparent and thorough investigation possible in order to establish what really happened and to prevent, thanks to the new legislation, that this can happen again to the detriment of our consumers and the environment.
in writing. – the european union is on a regular process of improvement. we all in the epp group certainly want a better and smarter europe, but only by correcting our mistakes we will be able to accomplish the aforementioned goal. the promised investigation is important and any objections to carrying it out would only go against the principle of loyal cooperation established in union law. therefore, i voted in favour of the report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate allegations of infringement or maladministration in the application of union legislation relating to emission measurement in the automotive sector. i am convinced that one of the most important prerogatives of the european parliament is to monitor the work of the other institutions of the union, representing the interests of the european citizens. as regards the merits of this inquiry, i believe it is my duty to help restore full consumer confidence and to establish individual responsibility without damaging the whole automotive sector, which is a european excellence. i voted in favour of this interim report.
in writing. ‒ since march 2016, following the volkswagen scandal, the emis committee of inquiry has been investigating alleged breaches of european standards and cases of maladministration in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector. the interim report gives an overview of the work programme of the committee: to date, emis has held 12 meetings, totalling some 50 hours, and 37 hearings with experts from research institutes and non-governmental organisations, industry representatives and the european commission. as the investigation is still ongoing, the report does not draw any conclusions. i therefore voted in favour of the text in which parliament simply asks the member states and the european commission to provide the technical and political support necessary for the commission of inquiry to fulfil its mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the inquiry report on emission measurements in the automotive sector. in december 2015, parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu emissions law in the automotive sector, requesting a report within six months of the start of the work. given the nature of the committee of inquiry, it cannot reach final conclusions before it has heard all the witnesses and before it has collected sufficient evidence. it is therefore premature for it to submit any comments. the interlocutory report is purely technical in nature, but it stresses procedural aspects and reaffirms the principle of good cooperation between the institutions, insisting on greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ we have today approved the mid-term report by which the special committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector informs parliament of the state of play of its work. this report does not yet contain any direct reference to the merits of the inquiry or to verify possible maladministration by the european institutions and member states in the application of the legislation in force on the control of emissions from passenger cars , but it does stress, albeit in a rather general way, the need for greater cooperation between the member states and the commission in order to provide the information needed for the inquiry.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the european law on parliamentary immunity, together with the hungarian law, i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity of istvàn ujhelyi, a hungarian member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of the waiver of mr ujhelyi's immunity. the request was made on the basis of a decision of 26 november 2014 by the central district court of pest (hungary) in connection with a criminal defamation case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because istván ujhelyi is accused of committing the crime of defamation under article 226 (1) of law c of 2012 of the hungarian criminal code in the context of a criminal case before the pest court. according to the court decision, istván újhelyi stated on the programme "let's speak out" broadcast on the hungarian broadcaster atv on 25 april 2014 that he opposed the candidacy of tamás sneider for the post of vice-president of the hungarian parliament. according to istván újhelyi, vice presidential candidate sneider "said he fought a gypsy mobster by hitting him with i don't know what kind of tool, baseball bats" and "everyone says he was the local boss of a mafia-type organization, a shaved head organization". on 26 november 2014, the central court of pest suspended the criminal proceedings against istván ujhelyi and asked the european parliament to lift his immunity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ istván ujhelyi's statements were made on 25 april 2014, when he was not a member of the european parliament, but a member of the hungarian parliament. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity in question because the statements in question were made before mr ujhelyi was elected to the european parliament and therefore cannot be considered to have been made in the course of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the legal affairs committee, i voted in favour of the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta. this is a request submitted on 7 january 2016 by rosario crocetta in defence of her privileges and immunities, in the context of the criminal defamation proceedings pending before the third criminal chamber of the court of palermo. the committee believes that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties and that it can therefore be considered that mr crocetta acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because i believe that the circumstances of the case justify the application of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the committee on legal affairs, too, invoking article 9 (3) of the regulation and after a careful analysis of the case, recommended that the european parliament should uphold the immunities and privileges of rosario crocetta. the concept of 'opinion', in the light of article 8 of the protocol, includes speeches and statements which, as regards their content, correspond to subjective assessments. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights considered that the circumstances of the case showed that mr crocetta's statements had a clear and direct link with the exercise of his parliamentary functions. mr crocetta also took a particular interest in the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and the economy at european level. he was first vice-chairman of the european parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. ‒ in this case it is obvious, also in the light of musumeci's subsequent appointment as chairman of the anti-mafia commission, that mr crocetta used his power of non-unionism in an instrumental way for electoral purposes. i have therefore decided to vote against the preservation of the former mep's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of maintaining immunity because the statements were made when he was a member of the european parliament and his statements can be considered to be related to his parliamentary work.
in writing. ‒ taking into account that under european law members of the european parliament can also enjoy parliamentary immunity on national territory and that the crimes charged against sotirios zarianopoulos by the greek supreme court can be considered sufficiently serious prerequisites for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i voted in favour of the waiver of mr sotirios zarianopoulos' immunity. this request is in connection with a criminal action concerning the issuance in 2011 by the municipal council of thessaloniki of allegedly illegitimate permits for the occupation of public land for the installation of terraces on pedestrian areas. the honourable member was prosecuted as a former councillor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of my colleague sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of my colleague as the criminal action requested is unrelated to his status as a member of the european parliament and also does not concern views expressed in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and there is no 'fumus persecutionis' in relation to his political activity.
in writing. ‒ following the negotiations, mandated by the world trade organisation, the following changes have been made to the eu-china tariff framework: the commission has also proposed to increase the tariff quota for certain food products and to reduce the tariff rates for other categories of products such as footwear and split-systems. as this agreement is necessary for the adjustment of the tariff framework, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the winkler report, a technical measure approving the eu-china agreement which allows the asian country to see its trade rights re-established, slightly reduced following the enlargement of the eu customs union by the accession of croatia in july 2013. the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) have required the european union to enter into negotiations with the wto member states, which have negotiating rights attached to the tariff list of croatia, with a view to agreeing on a compensatory adjustment.
in writing. ‒ the winkler report analyses the eu-china agreement to offset the trade preferences that china had with croatia before its accession to the eu. although there are no direct consequences for the italian manufacturing sector, i believe that the eu should protect its internal market more against china, which is constantly proving to be a very aggressive commercial competitor, always ready to engage in unfair competition practices to grab market shares at the expense of quality products from our territories. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the trade agreements that the eu concludes with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation today because i believe it is right that the people's republic of china should be restored to its trading rights. these were partly reduced following the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia. the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), in particular article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994, require the european union to enter into negotiations with the wto members with negotiating rights attached to the tariff list of croatia in order to allow for a compensatory adjustment. this adjustment is necessary where the adoption of the eu external tariff regime would result in a higher increase in duties than the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the light of the wto framework. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for the product concerned. the first provides for an increase in the tariff quota and the second for a reduction in the consolidated tariff rates.
in writing. ‒ following the negotiations on the accession of croatia to the european union, and the related concessions, the trade agreement with china has been amended with regard to trade in certain products. the report seeks to approve these amendments, which raise no problems. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ in line with the economic principles that have animated the spirit of the european union since its origins, i welcome the trade agreement reached with china on the accession of croatia. the negotiations, which started on 7 october 2015, have been successfully concluded, demonstrating the excellent relations between european diplomacy and the people's republic of china. i hope that, through such agreements, a better degree of international economic cooperation and integration will be achieved, reflecting the well-being of the peoples concerned.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu's customs union has been extended and negotiations have been opened with some wto partners, including china, to define a compensatory adjustment of the tariff regime. i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china because its objective is to facilitate and regularize trade by avoiding the emergence of obstacles to community trade with third countries. this clearing agreement represents the european union's commitment to promoting a multilateral trading system based on clear rules compatible with the world trade organisation's regulatory system.
in writing. ‒ in today's plenary session i spoke in favour of the draft resolution in question, which, being strictly technical in nature, aims to define the agreement with china on the modification of concessions in the list of croatia, in view of the latter's accession to the eu. following the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, the eu further extended its customs union. this has involved the opening of negotiations with the wto member countries with negotiating rights in relation to the tariff list of croatia to agree on a compensatory adjustment, including china. by approving this measure, the european parliament is thus helping to ensure the certainty and consistency of the rules governing trade with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as i approve the proposal for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the modification of concessions in the list of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the agreement provides for appropriate modifications to the concessions and is consistent with the approach taken in previous cases and with the framework of the world trade organisation (wto).
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation because i have never been in favour of trade preferences with china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the eu, with the accession of croatia, has in fact enlarged its customs union and therefore a compensatory adjustment with the wto member countries with negotiating rights has become necessary. i therefore believe that china is entitled to have its trade rights recognised, proportionately reduced, because of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. this report analyses the agreement negotiated between the eu and china on the accession of croatia. the eu has extended its customs union by this agreement, providing for the possibility of opening negotiations with wto members, who have the right to negotiate under the tariff of croatia. the aim is to agree on a compensatory adjustment. in turn, such an adjustment will become necessary if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime leads to an increase in duties above the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto.
in writing. – croatia is the youngest member of the european union. even though the country’s economy has not reached the successful levels of those belonging to other member states, croatia is located in a strategic geographical position that can be beneficial to foreign investors. the eu’s greatest trading partners, china included, should not underestimate croatia’s potential and capability. as stated in the report, croatia needs to make some major changes to adapt its economy to the eu, but as a bloc, we will make sure that the country has all the necessary instruments to achieve the following goal.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu's customs union has been extended and negotiations have been initiated with some wto partners, including china, to define a compensatory adjustment of the tariff regime. the aim of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china is to facilitate and regularize trade and i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994) required the european union to enter into negotiations with the wto members with negotiating rights attached to the tariff list of croatia with a view to finally agreeing on a compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is necessary where the adoption of the eu external tariff regime would result in an increase in duties above the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. i voted in favour of adopting this recommendation in order to encourage the development of international trade opportunities in croatia as well.
in writing. ‒ as a result of negotiations imposed by the world trade organisation following the accession of the republic of croatia to the customs union, changes were made to the tariff quotas for beef. as the compensatory adjustment of external tariffs is a necessary process, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the zalba bidegain report, a technical measure approving the eu-uruguay agreement, which allows the south american country to see its trade rights re-established, slightly reduced following the enlargement of the eu customs union by the accession of croatia in july 2013. the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) have required the european union to enter into negotiations with the wto member states, which have negotiating rights attached to the tariff list of croatia, with a view to agreeing on a compensatory adjustment.
in writing. ‒ although this procedure is a direct consequence of croatia's recent accession to the eu, i do not share the contents of this report, which i believe could open up some criticisms for the european manufacturing sector. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the trade agreements that the eu concludes with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay, because with the accession of the republic of croatia and the enlargement of the customs union that follows, the eu is obliged to open negotiations with uruguay on the tariff of croatia. this adjustment is the result of obligations under wto rules, in particular article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994. the negotiations with uruguay resulted in a draft agreement signed in nairobi on 18 december 2015. the european union will have to incorporate in its list for the customs territory the amendments relating to the tariff quotas for beef. the european commission is drawing up an implementing regulation on the various tariff quotas under the agreement. the approval of the european parliament is indispensable in order to complete the ratification process of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has expanded its customs union. consequently, the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) required the eu to enter into negotiations with the wto member countries holding negotiating rights related to the tariff list of croatia with a view to agreeing on a compensatory adjustment. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the trade agreement signed by the european union with the eastern republic of uruguay following the accession of croatia, as it represents a further development opportunity for european businesses. the development of trade relations between relatively young countries with very distant economic backgrounds is a success of the economic project embodied by the union. twenty years ago it would have been unthinkable to agree to a partnership between a latin american country and one from yugoslavia, not only for geographical reasons but mainly because of the economic and political ideology embraced by both. today, thanks to the contribution of the european union, bringing what was once far away closer together is possible and i am proud to be able to participate and support this historic turning point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the trade agreement between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay, as the customs union has been enlarged following the accession of the republic of croatia to the union and compensatory adjustments to the tariff regime should now be made. the purpose of this agreement is to facilitate and promote trade between the european union and third countries, in particular the republic of uruguay, in full compliance with the rules of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of croatia, the eu has expanded its customs union and was therefore obliged, in line with the rules established in the wto framework, to enter into negotiations with uruguay on the tariff of croatia with a view to reaching an agreement on compensatory adjustment, due to the changed external tariff regime of the eu. the measure, which is strictly technical in nature and similar to the one voted on with regard to the people's republic of china, is indispensable for the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as i approve the proposal for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay. following the accession of the republic of croatia, the union has expanded its customs union and was therefore obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), to enter into negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the tariff of croatia with a view to agreeing on a possible compensatory adjustment, as the external tariff regime of the eu entails an increase in tariffs.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the recommendation on the eu-uruguay agreement following the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. the accession of croatia to the customs union made the agreement on a compensatory adjustment necessary in order to update the tariff of croatia. with the agreement reached in nairobi between the european union and uruguay in december 2015, and also thanks to the favourable vote of the european parliament, the eu will modify the tariff quotas for beef.
in writing. this report analyses the eu-uruguay agreement in relation to the accession of croatia. this is an act to take account, within the scope of the treaty, of the accession of croatia to the union.
in writing. – in regards to the proposal concluding an agreement in the form of exchange letters between the eu and the eastern republic of uruguay, i voted in favour. i support the strengthening of mutual relations by cooperating in terms of trade, investment, finance and technology, especially now that the bloc welcomed its latest member back in 2013.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union's customs union has been extended and there is therefore an obligation to open negotiations with wto partners, in this case uruguay, to agree on possible compensation to the third country in order to balance the increase in tariffs. the aim of the agreement between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay is to simplify and regularize trade and i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the union has expanded its customs union and was therefore obliged, under the wto rules (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994), to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the tariff of croatia, with a view to agreeing on a possible compensatory adjustment, as the eu's external tariff regime entails an increase in tariffs. i am pleased that the negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay have come to a positive conclusion, because i see latin america as a source of great development opportunities for the world economy and in particular for the european common market. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ there is a clear gender imbalance in the composition of the court of auditors: we have only four women out of 28 members. if the following candidate were to be appointed, this imbalance would be further accentuated. in addition, there is no real democratic control of appointments, since parliament has no binding power in this area. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. founded in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the european budget. it is composed of one member from each member state, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion, parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou. the s&d group, having taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the instructions of my political group, has voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional capacity of this candidate, but i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because i consider it appropriate and appropriate to appoint mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. dr. lazarou's professional qualifications are remarkable: member of the association of chartered certified accountants (acca) since 1987, member of the cypriot institute of chartered accountants since 1988, member of the european court of auditors since 2 november 2010, dean of section v 'financing and administration of the union' and member for the annual report since the june 2016 campaign. from february 2014 to may 2016, lazaros stavrou lazarou served as a permanent member of the cead section 'coordination, evaluation, reliability and development' and as a member responsible for the declaration of reliability. the personal objectives set are very ambitious: to contribute constructively to the work of the court and, as dean of section v, to prepare and chair meetings, coordinate tasks and ensure that the work of the section proceeds smoothly. as a member of the administrative committee, the candidate would like to contribute to the implementation of the court's strategy for 2013-2017 by establishing the annual work programme outlining the priorities, development and implementation of the strategy for the period 2018-2022.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary control committee has successfully assessed the candidacy of mr lazaros stavrou as a member of the court of auditors. i congratulate lazaros stavrou on his appointment and wish him a good job.
in writing. the council's nomination of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors was accepted after a thorough analysis of the applicant's credentials and personal background.
in writing. ‒ it has become necessary to appoint two new members of the court of auditors and to extend the mandate of a third. the procedure provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external audit institutions in their respective states or who possess specific qualifications for this function and who must offer all guarantees of independence. the three candidates have a rather varied resume, which has led me to express different votes. despite the unquestionable qualifications of the cypriot candidate, i abstained, mainly for two reasons. first, there is still a lack of 'gender parity' in the candidates presented. the court of auditors already has a rather marked imbalance out of 28 members only 4 are women and i believe that the member states and the council should give a signal to promote gender equality in all the institutions and at all levels. the fact that parliament's vote is not binding has also caused friction between parliament and the council in the past. in fact, there is no real democratic control in the choice of the candidate and the appointment appears to be purely 'political'.
in writing. ‒ there is a clear gender imbalance in the composition of the court of auditors: we have only four women out of 28 members. the appointment of the following candidate would further exacerbate this imbalance. in addition, there is no real democratic control of appointments, since parliament has no binding power in this area. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. founded in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the european budget. it is composed of one member from each member state, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. the european parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of mr joão figueiredo. the s&d group, having taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the instructions of my political group, has voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ while i have no doubt about the professional capacity of this candidate, i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i consider it very important that joão alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo be appointed a member of the court of auditors. the professional experience of the candidate concerned is relevant and in line with the role to be filled. judge de figueiredo was in fact from 2003 to 2005 the head of inspection at the portuguese court of auditors, from 2006 to 2008 he was state secretary for public administration at the portuguese ministry of finance and since 2008 he has been a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. the applicant has also submitted to the commission a report on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the construction of the airport infrastructure in the area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment area of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the catchment of the the language requirements of the candidate are also of the highest standard. mr de figueiredo is fluent in french, english and spanish.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary control committee has successfully assessed the candidacy of mr joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. i congratulate joão figueiredo on his appointment and wish him a good job.
in writing. the council's nomination of joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors was considered valid following a thorough analysis of the applicant's credentials and personal background.
in writing. ‒ during his time in government, leo brincat, a candidate for appointment to the court of auditors, refused, together with members of his party, to open an investigation into the panama papers concerning minister konrad mizzi and the chief of staff of prime minister keith schembri. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. founded in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the european budget. it is composed of one member from each member state, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion, parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of leo brincat. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and, following the instructions of my political group, the s&ds, i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ the maltese candidate for the european court of auditors, whose role would be to fight corruption, is known in his country for helping a party colleague escape a motion of no confidence in his government. in view of this precedent, i did not intend to vote for your nomination.
in writing. ‒ leo brincat, a graduate of the chartered institute of bankers london and a fellow of the institute, has an exemplary cv and decades of positive experience in the political and economic fields. both because of the sensitivity he showed when he was minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change of the republic of malta, and because of his work as head of corporate research at hsbc bank malta, we do not see any reason to oppose his appointment as a member of the court of auditors of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the nomination of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors because i regard the profile of the candidate as of a high professional standard. the former minister has a wealth of experience in this area. he was a member of the first national cross-party commission set up in 1995 to introduce transparency and regulation in the area of political party funding, known as the galdes commission, and was a founding member and chairman of the public accounts committee within the house of representatives, a body that strengthens relations between the national court of auditors and parliament. as a minister in two different ministries, leo brincat has dealt with public finance issues, both as minister for finance and trade and as minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change. at the same time as his term as minister for finance and trade, the court of auditors became fully independent and joined the cabinet of the maltese parliament.
in writing. the council's nomination of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors was considered valid following a thorough analysis of the applicant's credentials and personal background.
in writing. ‒ it has become necessary to appoint two new members of the court of auditors and to extend the mandate of a third. the procedure provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external audit institutions in their respective states or who possess specific qualifications for this function and who must offer all guarantees of independence. the three candidates have a rather varied resume, which has led me to express different votes. i voted against the nomination of leo brincat, the maltese minister for sustainable development, former minister for finance, elected member of parliament in 1981 for having obstructed certain investigations during his time in office. members of his ruling political party and himself have rejected calls for an investigation into minister konrad mizzi and prime minister keith schembri's chief of staff in connection with the panama papers. this has led me to consider it inappropriate to vote in favour of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the lange report, which approves the council's position at first reading on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries. this is a technical measure which concerns the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain specific measures. the text takes account of the balances on content made possible by the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which has made it possible to overcome the deadlock in the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ although this is a technical measure which would normally not pose any particular problems, my scepticism remains due to the commission's casual and non-transparent use of the instrument of delegated acts. i therefore voted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 223/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 march 2009 on european statistics defines the european statistical system (ess) as a partnership between the european statistical authority, namely the commission (eurostat), the national statistical institutes (nsis) and the other national authorities responsible in each member state for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. the european statistical system committee (ess committee) established by article 7 of regulation (ec) no 223/2009 shall be considered as the umbrella committee within the ess. it shall assist the commission in the exercise of implementing powers in certain statistical areas. these areas did not include the trade aspect and the analysis of import/export flows between the union and third countries. this regulation extends the scope of statistical analysis, streamlines and harmonises the methodology and makes the data available for public consultation more useful.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which updates the regulation on the collection of statistics on external trade with third countries. in the light of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. most legislation in the area of the common commercial policy has been brought into line with the new constitutional regime through the omnibus i and ii instruments on trade and with various subsequent specific alignments. the commission has proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy to refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. in line with the lisbon treaty, the commission had to adapt the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the regime of delegated and implementing acts. much of the legislation in the area of the common commercial policy has been amended in due course by the trade omnibus i and ii instruments and by subsequent amendments. the commission also undertook to submit a second set of amendments to the comitology procedure by the end of the seventh parliamentary term. in this context, it is proposed to amend regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy to refer to the former regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this is a necessary adjustment and is dictated by the treaty, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's proposal to amend the statistics on external trade with third countries. this is a technical measure, which makes it possible to adapt the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the new system of delegated and implementing acts, in line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. my vote in favour is based on the consideration that, by implementing the system of delegated acts, parliament and therefore the entire european population will be able to have greater control and awareness of the processing of data relating to the balance of trade. in fact, a thorough knowledge and a better interpretation of information on exports and imports are fundamental to the organization and planning of our industrial policy. recalling the excellence of our small and mediumsized enterprises and their role in the european industrial fabric, and with a greater awareness of the economic results achieved, a strategy of internationalisation can be pursued with positive effects for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because, following the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 on implementing acts, it has become necessary to adapt the commission's decision-making rules on trade policy, with particular reference to regulation 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of harmonising the rules for decision-making in eu trade policy, with particular reference to the new system of delegated and implementing acts of the european commission. after lengthy negotiations, a compromise was finally reached in the form of this measure, which provides for the adaptation of the old 'comitology' regime to the rules that have been introduced following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the 2011 eu regulation on implementing acts, which would allow for the systematic production of statistical surveys at community level on external trade. this is a step forward towards making european action in the field of trade more efficient.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to amend the regulation on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy to refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. there are changes due to technical adjustments which will allow a more accurate and accurate representation of the status quo, useful in determining assessments as close as possible to the reality of trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report on external trade statistics with third countries, as, in the light of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 on implementing acts, the commission has adapted the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. in particular, the commission aims to amend regulation 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is essential to have a regulation that makes it compulsory to provide data to consumers, especially in the case of gas and electricity. the consumer must always be adequately informed in order to ensure full transparency. the confidentiality of the data provided should also be protected; i have voted in favour for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the kappel report, presented today in parliament, aims to transform the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices from a voluntary basis to a mandatory one, avoiding the problems already experienced by several member states. this is a necessary measure to avoid a significant deterioration in the quality of the survey of data for the domestic sector and to continue to maintain a wide market coverage and a high quality of price information. although i agree with the substance of the report, i have decided not to vote on it, in disagreement with the legitimacy of the work of the far-right group enf.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs kappel on statistics on natural gas and electricity prices is balanced and acceptable. i therefore chose to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ citizens have the right to make their own market choices in electricity and natural gas in full freedom and awareness, to seek the supplier that best meets their personal and family needs. this is not possible if community legislation is not up to date and if the real final prices of gas and electricity are not transparent and understandable to the citizen. both the term 'charge' and the excise duty should be clarified, specifying where they fall, how much they amount to and what the actual final price of the service is for the customer. it is a matter of civility and transparency.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the regulation in question, which improves the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices applied to final household consumers. the methodology currently applied is voluntary. the aim of the regulation is to convert the voluntary basis into a mandatory one, so as to avoid problems in the collection of data, as reported by several member states. this measure is necessary to avoid a significant deterioration in the quality of the survey of electricity and natural gas price data for the household sector and to continue to maintain a broad market coverage and high quality of price data. the collection of data will not impose an additional burden on the authorities responsible for the transmission of data and price data will continue to be collected by the competent national authorities. parliament's position aims to clarify the objectives, simplify certain provisions for the authorities responsible for transmitting data and the companies that must provide the data, and to avoid misunderstandings which, in the worst case, could lead to non-comparable data sets.
in writing. ‒ this is a relatively neutral report, since it deals with the formulation of statistics, correct, without criticism, already supported in the itre committee. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the kappel report on statistics on natural gas and electricity. in fact, this document aims to improve the quality of data on electricity and natural gas prices by repealing directive 2008/92/ec and introducing new measures. in particular, the change from voluntary to mandatory data reporting represents a step forward in the area of transparency for the domestic final consumer. the report also clarifies the objectives and simplifies the procedures for transmitting data in order to avoid misunderstandings, thus facilitating the comparison of data. i understand the decision of the french delegation, which felt it appropriate to express an opinion against this report for political reasons, but i would stress that, from a practical point of view, the work done by mr kappel remains very good.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i share the need for compulsory data collection on natural gas and electricity prices for household consumers in order to avoid problems in statistical data collection and to avoid deterioration in the quality of the price data collection. the protection of the final consumer must be ensured by means of transparent and uniform detection systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is necessary to change the system for the collection of data on natural gas and electricity prices applied to final household consumers from the current voluntary to the mandatory collection. this change avoids a deterioration in the quality of the survey, while ensuring a wide market coverage and high quality of the price data.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report which makes it compulsory to collect data on natural gas and electricity prices in order to avoid problems in the collection of data.
in writing. ‒ energy, both gas and electricity is the lifeblood of the modern economy and thus energy policies have a huge impact on consumers and businesses alike. in order for us policy makers to make the best possible regulations in order to support the energy market there is a natural need for up-to-date quality information and data. given this, i supported this report, as it will help us make rules and regulations for european energy market with the most relevant information. this is key to make the market sustainable while promoting economic growth in the wider economy.
in writing. the measures contained in this report are necessary to avoid a deterioration in the quality of the survey of electricity and natural gas price data for the domestic sector and to continue to maintain a broad market coverage and high quality of price data. it intends, inter alia, to facilitate certain provisions for the authorities responsible for the transmission of data and the companies providing the data, and to avoid circumstances which could lead to misunderstandings with regard to non-comparable data. i therefore think it appropriate to support the european parliament's draft legislative resolution as put to the vote today.
in writing. – regarding the report on the proposal for a regulation of the eu parliament and of the council on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices, i find it crucial to make the voluntary collection of data obligatory not only to avoid any sort of conflict and misunderstanding, but also to be able to provide high-quality price data. i give my full support to the transparency of prices but also assert the need of confidentiality of sensitive information of consumers and suppliers. without further delay, i want to express my positive vote towards the resolution.
in writing. ‒ since the 1970s, the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices. since 2007, the liberalisation of energy markets has been taken into account and data collection has always been carried out on a voluntary basis with a response rate of 100%. the aim of this regulation is to make the voluntary basis compulsory, so as to avoid problems in the collection of data, as has been pointed out by some member states. i voted in favour of this measure because i believe it is a necessary measure to avoid a deterioration in the quality of the survey on price trends and above all to continue to maintain a transparent and uniform survey, protecting the final consumer.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this regulation is to transform the voluntary basis into a mandatory one, so as to avoid problems in the collection of data. this measure is necessary to avoid a significant deterioration in the quality of the survey of electricity and natural gas price data for the household sector and to continue to maintain a broad market coverage and high quality of price data. i agree with the rapporteur that the collection of data should not impose an additional burden on the authorities responsible for the transmission of data. it is important to protect the confidentiality of confidential information of consumers and suppliers. price transparency and clarity of information for consumers are essential prerequisites for the development of a supplier-customer relationship based on trust. only in an economic environment of trust can wealth be created. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report, which focuses on the transformation of the energy market, introduces some innovative and highly interesting elements, one of which is a more forward-looking approach to renewable energy. however, there are some points in the report which cannot be supported, such as those relating to the exploitation of fossil fuels and high-efficiency gas-fired power stations. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the communications presented by the commission in july 2015 set out some clear objectives for the future of the energy market in our continent. they revolve around three fundamental questions: the creation of an eu-wide electricity market; the european dimension of security of energy supply and the strengthening of regional cooperation in the field of energy policy. the langen report, which i supported with my vote today, examines the measures envisaged by the commission, effectively identifying the relationship between the objectives set and the means of achieving them. the priority today is to define a new set of rules that are appropriate to the new nature of energy supply. the energy market is increasingly moving from a traditional centralised system to a more flexible one based on renewables and local production. europe needs to create smart distribution networks, promote new storage solutions and increase the confidence of the actors involved; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not distorted.
in writing. ‒ the langen report on the new energy market is unbalanced and contains criticisms which have led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution we are adopting today is a response to the european commission's communication and is intended to provide guidance for the forthcoming legislative proposal. the energy market is a key aspect of the achievement of a truly single market in this sector. only a harmonized market will provide the price signals needed to mobilise the investments needed to bring us to a dimension of solid interconnections and effective integration of energy from renewable sources. we know, however, what the figures are on the european union's energy dependence and we have seen in recent years how geopolitical imbalances can expose us to this. therefore, reliable plans are needed to ensure the maintenance of electricity grids, also in view of the gradual technological progress for the integration of renewables.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the energy market was the second largest market in the european union. a major market, on which the domestic needs of our citizens, industrial production, transport, the major communications networks, health and welfare services, military defence and many other aspects of daily life depend. this large market needs to be reformed by creating an eu-wide electricity market that provides clear price signals for new investment, along with giving a european dimension to the security of energy supply and strengthening regional cooperation in the field of energy policy, in particular with regard to investment in new energy production facilities, interconnectors and aid schemes, while also taking care to support and promote the integration of renewable energies into the european single market.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'towards a new energy market' as i believe that our international scenario shows that energy security - both in terms of supply and regulation - helps to guarantee and consolidate the political independence of the member states. therefore, a dialogue should be encouraged and pursued with the aim of improving the implementation of the related energy transition towards cleaner and renewable sources and of mitigating market distortions. this different management of sovereignty is an important part of the challenges facing europe in the energy sector, which ultimately needs - first and foremost - greater integration and interconnection.
in writing. ‒ the european commission believes that the new electricity market should take full advantage of cross-border competition, allow distributed generation of electricity, including for self-consumption, and support the emergence of innovative energy service companies. reform of the electricity market is crucial to achieving the eu's climate and energy objectives. in particular, it must create the conditions for reducing energy consumption by better managing demand through new technologies (grids, meters and smart homes, energy storage systems), new services from innovative companies and reliable intermediaries, and the switch to alternative sources of consumption. the report by mr langen is much better than the original version, but there are some unsustainable elements (ets, carbon leakage, fossil fuel exploitation, high-efficiency gas plants, etc.) which have emerged, so i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the european union's energy policy must now adapt to the new global energy market in order to ensure security of supply, environmental sustainability and affordability for households and businesses. i believe that these objectives should be pursued by promoting the integration and coordination of the energy markets of the member states with the ultimate aim of creating a single european market for electricity. i voted in favour of the report because it calls on the member states and the commission to give high priority to the promotion of renewable energy and to establish wider regional markets, preferably by testing innovative projects across borders. in fact, the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has pointed out that regional cooperation has enormous potential, especially in terms of cost savings. i believe that interconnections within and between some member states should be strengthened, as there are still gaps which cause bottlenecks in the networks and affect cross-border energy exchanges. i hope that the commission will ensure a level playing field for energy producers in member states and third countries, because competition stimulates energy security. finally, the development of new electricity storage solutions is essential to enable efficient demand management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr langen's report on the new energy market design, which is part of the series of documents on the european single market published by the commission on 15 july 2015. i congratulate the honourable member on his emphasis on the need for a single, stable energy system to ensure a sustainable and efficient supply. i believe that the integration of individual national markets at european level will not only promote better cooperation between the countries of the union, but also reduce costs for european industries and consumers through the free movement of energy. i also agree with the report on the need to promote investment and develop longterm projects in the field of renewable sources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because in defining a new energy market structure it is necessary to give priority to renewable sources, while taking into account the maintenance of sustainable energy security and affordable prices for consumers. a market structure that facilitates the process of change, without distorting competition and taking into account low-carbon energy sources, should be ensured in order to integrate production from renewable sources.
in writing. ‒ the report lays the foundations for a re-ordering of the energy market, taking into account the changing nature of the system, which is moving increasingly away from a centralised vision towards a system increasingly based on variable renewable sources that contribute to the decarbonisation of our economy, often produced locally. the proposal sets three strategic objectives. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to use the community's resources to finance their own energy projects. secondly, the strengthening of the energy supply system, through a truly european approach. finally, greater interregional cooperation and integration, particularly for investment in new power stations. the text as a whole, despite some controversial points - such as the case of national incentives which can create price and market distortions - is a good starting point for discussing the commission's proposal for market reform, and that is why i thought it important to support it.
in writing. ‒ the transition to decentralised energy production based on the exploitation of renewable sources is now underway. this requires a radical change in energy market governance and regulation to recognise the growing number of players involved, no longer just large producers on the one hand and passive energy consumers on the other. the rapporteur langen, however, proposes a text which only apparently seems to trigger a change in the energy market, which puts renewables and decentralised production at the centre. as the five star movement we have proposed amendments to introduce extremely innovative elements such as the concept of prosumer, to recognise the existence of a new subject, that of the growing number of citizens who, in addition to consuming energy, produce it. however, i regret that there are still too many references in the text to the continued exploitation of fossil fuels, nuclear energy and the so-called ets or 'emission trading system' (which has so far coincided only with the creation of a speculative market in co2 allowances without any benefit to the climate). i see that these aspects do not really change the paradigm in the energy market. therefore, my vote is against.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
in writing. ‒ this report represents a necessary move towards decentralisation in the european energy market. if the european energy market is to functions to its fullest of potential it must become more regionalised, more flexible and with a high degree of regional cooperation. it is also very important that this design is specifically market-oriented to attract investment and to drive innovation in order to achieve a sustainable energy market for european consumers and businesses. for these regional markets to bear fruit, we need a flexible regulatory framework that covers all cross-border regulatory gaps that exists today.
in writing. ‒ europe made very significant commitments last year at the cop21 climate conference. to achieve the reductions in consumption and emissions, a profound change in our energy systems is needed, starting with our daily habits. a key weight in the distribution of emissions is represented by heating and cooling in buildings, which in themselves also constitute a significant financial commitment for many households in europe. to achieve the paris target of a 40% reduction in energy consumption, extraordinary action is needed: we call on the commission, in the context of the announced reform proposal on the energy efficiency of buildings, to introduce ambitious and demanding measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on 'towards a new energy market architecture' because i believe that the integration of all stakeholders is essential to achieve the objectives of secure, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy set by cop21 in paris last december 2015. i believe that it is essential to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy so as to better coordinate investment in new energy production facilities and to maximise the impact and effectiveness of financing. the growing concerns about climate and environmental protection, already expressed in many international forums, highlight the need to promote the development of renewable energy, while not neglecting the need to ensure security and sustainable and affordable energy supply, especially to support a good standard of living for households and to safeguard jobs in energy-intensive companies. finally, i am convinced that there is a need for more intensive dialogue and closer cooperation between the eu institutions, bodies and agencies in order to create a more favourable environment for innovation and research.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on towards a new energy market design because i consider that exemplary measures and initiatives must be taken in order to tackle the energy-related challenges europe is facing. such challenges include the dependency on oil and gas imports, high-energy prices, security risks, the fights against climate change, and poor progress in energy efficiency, among others. only by taking the necessary measures to resolve these conflicts we will be able to achieve the common european goal of a secure, affordable, environmentally sound energy supply.
in writing. ‒ energy markets, and in particular electricity markets, still retain a strongly national character, based on the principle of national responsibility for the energy mix. measures for the implementation of national energy mix vary widely, ranging from the abandonment of nuclear energy to subsidies for renewable energy and the introduction of so-called capacity regulation mechanisms in some member states in order to ensure security of supply. the langen report aims to strengthen the european internal energy market by contributing to a secure and efficient supply through clear and concrete strategies. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the need to make a 'transition' of consumption to alternative sources. the structure of the european energy market requires harmonization in the light of the current changing situation: the transition from centralised production using mega-energy plants to off-site production with an increasing number of actors involved, and above all the change from the figure of the 'consumer' to that of the 'producer and consumer', or the prosumer. however, the report does not fully accept the role of renewable energy as the focal point around which the energy market should revolve, but emphasises the role of the 'self-regulating market', delegitimising incentives to support renewables and, subtly, endorsing those in support of fossil or nuclear sources. for the reasons stated above, i shall vote against.
in writing. ‒ the challenges facing europe in the energy sector include dependence on oil and gas imports, which has increased further in recent years, lack of diversification, high energy prices due to state levies, overall growth in global energy demand, security risks for producing and transit countries, the fight against climate change, limited progress in energy efficiency, the growing share of renewable energy, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions due to different aid schemes. the report aims to strengthen the internal energy market and allow electricity to move freely where it is needed most in order to reap the maximum benefits from cross-border competition and provide the right signals and incentives to drive the right investments. a dynamic society and economy requires a secure and efficient energy supply. the european internal market can help achieve this, and to do so, clear and ambitious strategies are needed. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the decentralisation of the energy market requires a new regulatory and governance framework for energy. in the european commission's report 'towards a new energy market architecture', the commission considers that the new electricity market should allow, in view of the eu's climate and energy objectives, the establishment of a distributed electricity network (including self-consumption) and the development of innovative energy services. i am not satisfied with this report which does not really recognise the importance of renewable energy and decentralisation in view of decarbonisation and eu objectives in general. the role of the market is also being put on a pedestal by favouring fossil fuels and hindering renewables and self-consumption. i have tried to bring back the focus, through a series of amendments, on the importance of the renewable energy market, prosumer, for a real and inclusive energy transition. other amendments i tabled were aimed at mitigating collective risks (such as the carbon bubble) and negative externalities. i voted against the problems raised in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report 'towards a new energy market architecture' because i believe that the energy union must be completed as soon as possible. we are experiencing a phase of transformation in the nature of the electricity supply, towards more flexible and green systems. the market must adapt to the new dynamics and i hope that the commission will be able to take parliament's view into account when drawing up future legislative proposals.
in writing. reform of the electricity market is key to achieving the eu's climate and energy objectives. in particular, the conditions for reducing energy consumption through better demand management must be created. this is possible thanks to new technologies that can be put in place to improve networks, meters, building smart homes and energy storage systems, but also by using new services from innovative companies, reliable intermediaries and the transition of consumption to alternative sources. this report does not propose the revolution needed to create a new energy market structure that places renewables and their decentralised production at the centre. the key role that the new framework must play in order to accelerate the process of decarbonising electricity in order to contribute to the achievement of the eu's climate and energy objectives is not recognised. the role of the market is given room to manoeuvre and it is left free to regulate itself when it comes to interventions in favour of renewables while all those masked interventions in support of fossil fuels and nuclear remain justified. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy presents some very innovative and important proposals for environmental protection at eu level. among these, the construction of 'smart' buildings, incentives for self-production, the need to dismantle the most obsolete power stations and finally the attention paid to the importance of informing and educating citizens are worth mentioning. however, there is one element that contradicts the above: the production of energy from waste. it would involve the use of highly polluting incinerators. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ almost 50% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, of which about 80% is used for buildings. the agreement reached at cop21 clearly indicated the way forward. it is strongly in line with the same european objectives, which envisage a heating and cooling sector based entirely on renewable energy by 2050 at the latest. the gierek report, which i supported with my vote today, supports the commission's communication on the eu strategy on heating and cooling, indicating some measures to be taken to achieve the objectives set. high energy efficiency, high-performance thermal insulation and, above all, the use of renewable energy sources and thermal energy recovery are the key priorities, together with a more decentralised and flexible energy system. the european structural and investment funds can be an important instrument for the implementation of these proposals and for the more general modernisation of the continent's energy system. the new strategy must not only be a strength of the union's environmental policy but also a great opportunity for both businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the gierek report is acceptable and free of criticism, so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ more than 40% of final energy consumption in europe occurs in buildings, a consumption that contributes 36% of total co2 emissions. the impact of heating and cooling on these figures clearly shows the importance of action in these sectors to rationalise energy consumption and reduce pollution and emissions. in view of the commission's legislative proposals on energy efficiency and the performance of buildings, parliament intends to stress with this report, which i support, the importance of encouraging all measures that can lead to the modernisation of heating and cooling systems. with the appropriate tax measures, already in place in italy, for example, and with integrated systems that take advantage of new technologies, it will be possible to achieve significant savings in the coming years, both for individual dwellings and for large buildings.
in writing. ‒ the heating and cooling of public buildings, industry and housing has a major economic and environmental impact for the whole of the european union. the data we have show significant differences between eastern, northern and mediterranean europe on: the hierarchy of importance of individual initiatives in the various countries is also consequently different. for the countries that joined the eu after 2004, the main efficiency opportunities are concentrated in the thermal retrofitting of buildings, which is considered the simplest solution to ensure more efficient use of energy and a significant reduction in co2 emissions. the financial resources for the thermal rehabilitation of entire blocks, especially those built using prefabricated panel technology, need to be significantly increased. to that end, a financial envelope of at least 25% of the total should be allocated from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund. this objective should be at the top of the sector's priorities, as the costs of such redevelopment are beyond the means of the building owners and state support is insufficient. more efficient heating means a healthier environment and savings for all citizens.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an eu strategy for heating and cooling, as i believe that the scenario of a proper energy supply can no longer be separated from that of more efficient use of energy and a significant reduction in co2 emissions, following the cop 21 agreement, now also ratified by the usa and china. the energy resilience of our countries and the fight against so-called energy poverty must also be taken into account. the energy markets are still strongly regionalist in nature, based on the principle of national responsibility for the energy mix, which is very uneven between the states.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling account for half of the eu's energy consumption and much of this energy is wasted. making them more efficient and sustainable is a strategic priority of the energy union. the report by mr gierek contains many positive points (for example, the importance of dismantling the most obsolete power stations as soon as possible and of speeding up the replacement of the most polluting domestic equipment), but it contains some elements which do not satisfy us: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union, and the introduction of a new energy policy for the european union. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european union's energy policy on heating and cooling must aim to reduce member states' energy dependence, lower costs for consumers and reduce emissions in line with the targets set at the paris climate change conference (cop 21). to date, almost 40% of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling buildings. it is necessary to increase the energy efficiency of buildings through renovation and refurbishment, in particular by improving their thermal insulation. i thought i would vote in favour of the report because it calls on the member states to put in place strategies to enable consumers to be more involved in the energy market and to take action to control energy consumption. it is also appropriate to continue to support the construction of nearly zero-energy buildings. i believe that the member states should provide incentives for the promotion and use of renewable energy. and it is essential to invest in research and innovation in order to develop energy-efficient technologies. finally, i believe that member states should ensure that a share of the funding for energy efficiency goes to households by helping them to invest in more efficient heating and cooling equipment.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report by the committee on industry which sets out a vital european strategy on heating and cooling, as i consider this a priority issue in the context of sustainable growth. the european energy policy includes reducing the use of fossil fuels and boosting renewable energy (which today has a use, although increasing, limited to 18%) to ensure cleaner, safer, competitive, persistent and affordable energy for all. excessive reliance on a limited number of sources also makes countries vulnerable to supply disruptions. at a time when affordability of energy and competitive energy prices are increasingly a concern for households and businesses, we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the proposal i have approved calls on the member states to phase out the use of backward equipment in urban areas and to phase out the use of wood-burning fireplaces in cities. these measures require, during the transition, investments to be managed in accordance with the principles of efficiency and effectiveness, so cooperation with local authorities is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, in defining the european union's strategy for heating and cooling, it puts the emphasis on the energy retrofitting of buildings, stressing that action by the european energy efficiency fund is needed to help citizens bear the costs of modernising their buildings by covering at least 25% of the total cost. the strategy should focus on new architectural solutions, thermal insulation and reverse heat pumps, with particular attention to the latter, given their enormous potential for both heating and cooling.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution presents a european strategy for improving heating and cooling in buildings at european level, contributing to the overall objectives of decarbonisation and energy efficiency. the european parliament, in its resolution, notes that the share of primary energy from fossil fuels used for heating and cooling remains very high and represents a major obstacle to decarbonisation, thereby accelerating climate change and causing significant damage to the environment. i voted in favour of the resolution because my vote is intended to support this process of modernising heating and cooling systems. this process must involve the different actors at all levels: the commission should use a major financial mechanism, for example to accelerate the rate of building renovation and to allocate a higher share of eu funds to energy efficiency programmes and the use of energy from renewable sources; member states must take measures to provide strong incentives for energy efficiency improvements; national and local authorities must ensure that consumers are fully aware of and can benefit from the technical and economic benefits of new heating and cooling systems.
in writing. ‒ this strategy is a useful opportunity and an important commitment to the development of renewable energy and the reduction of co2 emissions. in addition, investments in the technologies and management of new insulating equipment and constructions, such as reverse heat pumps and prefabricated panels, are becoming increasingly important in combating global warming. the report takes the climate challenge seriously and protects the well-being of citizens and the environment, which is why i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ improving heating and cooling systems must be at the heart of our efforts to achieve the energy efficiency target within the union. this objective is all the more important in a historical context and in an economic, climatic and environmental context which call for europe to break the chains of its energy dependence and to exploit, as far as possible, renewable energy sources, responding virtuously to the growing needs of households and businesses. i note that the strategy proposed by the rapporteur takes account of many of the m5s requests. for example, i find myself in the need, highlighted in the text that has come to the plenary, to decentralize energy production and to redevelop the building stock as a whole. there are some aspects of the strategy with which i do not entirely agree. i am thinking, for example, of some references to geothermal energy, district heating and waste generation (by incineration) as methods of contributing to decentralized and efficient energy production. i believe that the strategy does not sufficiently address the environmental problems that can be triggered by the use of such technologies. however, the approach that emerges from the heating and cooling strategy is overall a good one. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of this report on an eu strategy on heating and cooling. the commission has the merit of addressing the issue adequately, giving priority to the achievement of objectives such as: a strategy for decarbonisation, renovation of existing buildings to allow for lower energy consumption, integration of electricity systems with those of cooling and heating.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as it is right to take account of climate differences within europe and to support new instruments for energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this very important report by mr gierek. if we wish to move to a more energy efficient and effective society, we must not forget that heating and cooling stands for close to 50% of the eu’s final energy demand. given this, action from our part in increasing the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling in the eu will play a major role in the overall effectiveness of the energy market. due to the importance of this topic, i think that a modern solution to the financing of research and new methods is needed; this should include a magnitude of actors including eu research instruments such as horizon 2020 as well as private investors.
in writing. ‒ europe made very significant commitments last year at the cop21 climate conference. to achieve the reductions in consumption and emissions, a profound change in our energy systems is needed, starting with our daily habits. a key weight in the distribution of emissions is represented by heating and cooling in buildings, which in themselves also constitute a significant financial commitment for many households in europe. to achieve the paris target of a 40% reduction in energy consumption, extraordinary action is needed: we call on the commission, in the context of the announced reform proposal on the energy efficiency of buildings, to introduce ambitious and demanding measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a european union strategy for heating and cooling because i believe that one of the main challenges facing our planet today is to protect the environment, reduce energy consumption and ensure the sustainability of energy sources. considering that approximately 50% of the eu's final energy demand is for heating and cooling, it is crucial that these sectors are compatible with the eu's climate and energy targets, which call for the full use of renewable energy by 2050. i believe that these objectives are a good starting point for discussing a serious and effective global strategy that delivers concrete results and offers important job opportunities for businesses and consumers in the eu. i welcome the commission's communication on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling, which sets out a holistic approach to priorities and objectives. finally, i support the need to develop new technologies relating to renewable energy sources, thanks also to incentives from the member states and to facilities for the retirement of obsolete heating systems.
in writing. among the priorities of the european union, the commission has designed the first strategy aimed at supporting the correct and moderate use of energy and fossil fuels in a specific sector, such as heating and cooling. it is the most common use of energy, accounting for 50% of the total, of which only 18% is renewable and 75% fossil coal. the strategy therefore aims to optimise energy efficiency, increase the use of renewable energy and encourage the reuse of waste energy from industrial heating and cooling. in practical terms, member states are asked to phase out all obsolete heating systems and to promote a phase-out of inefficient wood-burning stoves. finally, the importance of research and technological innovation and access to investment funds for the modernisation of the heating and cooling sector is emphasised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling, a very important issue to ensure more efficient use of energy and a significant reduction in co2 emissions. i believe that the financial resources for the thermal rehabilitation of entire blocks of flats, especially those built using prefabricated panel technology, should be significantly increased. to that end, a financial envelope of at least 25% of the total should be allocated from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund. the specific problems of buildings in rural areas, which tend to be older, less energy efficient, less healthy and less thermally comfortable, also need to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling account for 40% of all primary energy and 50% of all usable energy in the form of heat, and much of this is wasted. however, the heating and cooling system and the electricity system can support each other in efforts to reduce carbon emissions. in february, the commission proposed an 'eu heating and cooling strategy' to propose measures to eliminate energy dissipation in buildings by maximising the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling systems, including through the use of advanced technologies. the report by the committee on energy, research and technology on the commission's initiative on heating and cooling contains some important points which i fully support, such as the dismantling of obsolete power stations, the replacement of household appliances which cause the most pollution, an increase in the rate of building renewal, especially in view of the objectives of having zero emission buildings by 2050, etc. however, the report retains some ambiguities in relation to district heating, geothermal energy and the committee's strategy on energy production, which seems to support the use of incinerators. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the issue of heating and cooling affects member states differently. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to increase significantly the financial resources allocated to the thermal rehabilitation of entire blocks of flats, particularly those built using prefabricated panel technology. to that end, a financial envelope of at least 25% of the total should be allocated from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund. i also think it is essential to replace old thermal power stations with small, high-performance cogeneration plants. the draft report stresses the importance of the district heating network, emphasises the local character and the heating and cooling potential, calls on the member states to phase out the use of obsolete heating systems in urban areas and, where possible, to encourage the phase-out of inefficient wood-burning fireplaces in cities. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the area of heating and cooling, the european strategy should aim to increase the share of renewable energy, whereas 75% of the fuels used in this sector are still of fossil origin. the existing technology would allow a smarter and more sustainable use of resources, contributing to a transition to a green economy. the improvement could come through new investment, wealth creation and reduced spending on fossil fuels. the amendments proposed by m5s to the gierek report were aimed at decentralising energy production, increasing the share of renewables in heating and cooling and energy retrofitting in the industrial sector. the report contains some points about certain forms of district heating, biogas without specifying its origin and, above all, about generic energy production from waste (which implies the use of incinerators) with which i disagree. for these reasons, despite the many positive elements and the excellent cooperation with the rapporteur, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's strategy for heating and cooling. the report seeks to remedy the current energy consumption in the european union: more than half of the energy demand goes to heating and cooling buildings, not only consuming more energy than needed but also creating a financial burden for many households in europe. a change in the energy sector is therefore needed to make it more efficient, environmentally responsible and socially oriented.
in writing. heating and cooling account for half of the eu's energy consumption, but much of the energy produced for heating and cooling is lost. one of the union's strategic priorities in the energy field can only be to make these two major consumer items more efficient and sustainable. this will reduce energy import dependency and costs for households and businesses, but also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to the commitments made in the paris climate agreement cop21. it is important to remember that 75% of the fuels used in the heating and cooling sector are still fossil fuels, and about half of them are gas. we in the m5s have succeeded in getting this report to say that energy production for heating and cooling is increasingly coming from renewable sources and that there is a need for energy-efficient upgrading of existing buildings, both private and industrial. however, the report contains elements which i do not share, such as the strategy on waste-to-energy which involves the use of incinerators. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the 2014-2020 programming period of the structural and investment funds includes 11 thematic objectives, including the promotion of the competitiveness of smes. this report recognises the fundamental importance of smes for the economic and social fabric of europe and in this regard calls on the commission to: simplify existing legislation to facilitate access to credit for smes (with specific reference to microcredit and the need to find a lasting solution to the backlog of payments related to regional policy); take account of the added value of smes' projects for the development and innovation of traditional sectors, which have been stifled by the austerity policies implemented by the european union; take into account the principles of the circular economy package in order to promote more sustainable economic growth; ensure transparency in public procurement to avoid possible fraud. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in europe represent about 99% of all businesses in the eu. despite providing over 100 million jobs and being a central element of the continent's economic growth, innovation and social cohesion, only 13% of them are engaged in trade and investment in global markets. the austerity policies implemented by the member states and the european union in recent years have stifled demand and created many difficulties for businesses. i voted in favour of the d'amato report because i strongly share the need to boost the competitiveness of european smes, also at international level, through investment and in particular through the proper use of esi funds. the text effectively outlines some guidelines for overcoming these problems by simplifying administrative procedures and improving access to credit for businesses. greater involvement of local authorities and improvement of their administrative capacity in the monitoring committees of programmes for the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and other funds should be ensured. smes are a crucial factor in the development and prosperity of our economy, and we must not forget this.
in writing. ‒ the relationship is shared and balanced. i believe it is of the utmost importance to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the economic strength of our territory. i therefore decided to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒i voted in favour of mrs d'amato's report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'promoting the competitiveness of smes' because it highlights the economic contribution made by small and medium-sized enterprises, we are talking about over 100 million jobs in europe, and it identifies the difficulties faced today by smes themselves due to the austerity policies implemented by the member states and the union. the report focuses on key issues such as job growth through the promotion of more sustainable economic prosperity, the commission's tackling of the serious problem of late payments and support for self-employment through microcredit, so that barriers to access to traditional banking services can be overcome. finally, i would like to stress the importance of direct participation by citizens who, through the rousseau platform, have contributed to the drafting of this report.
in writing. ‒ esi funds are used to promote the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union. they are an important source of finance for 801 500 enterprises and will directly create 354 300 new jobs: this means that 5% of all smes in the eu and 8% of new businesses will receive eu funding. the esi funds are sound and worthwhile instruments, financing 11 thematic objectives, including the promotion of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector (for the eafrd) and the fisheries and aquaculture sector (for the emff), as well as the related investment priorities for the erdf: any useful actions to support the implementation of the eu europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable, inclusive and inclusive growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that smes are the driving force of the european economy. member states and regions should provide for effective information and support mechanisms to enable smes to benefit from european funds, and take ambitious measures combining eu budgetary resources from, in particular, the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes and the european structural and investment funds. it is also necessary to simplify the lives of smes by speeding up procedures for accessing european funding and by lightening the burdens of the most burdensome eu legislation, in order to support the competitiveness of smes and the absorption of european structural and investment funds. i also believe that access to credit should be simplified and less regulated, taking into account the particular characteristics of micro, new and small businesses and the regions in which they operate. i note that unfortunately investors and banks are often reluctant to finance companies in the start-up and early expansion phases and that many smes, especially new small businesses, have difficulty in gaining access to external finance.
in writing. ‒ the 2014-2020 programming period of the structural and investment funds includes 11 thematic objectives: thematic objective 3 (tg3) is concerned with promoting the competitiveness of smes and has a budget of over eur 63 billion (94 billion if national co-financing is added). the report by our colleague rosa d'amato contains several positive aspects: the definition of the internationalisation process for smes, which should be based on corporate social responsibility, respect for human and labour rights and the highest possible level of environmental protection, in order to ensure fair competition and an increase in quality employment; the emphasis on the difficulties faced by smes, with a clear mention of the fact that the austerity policies implemented by the member states and the european union have stifled demand; the recognition of the lack of factual data on the effects and results produced by financial instruments and the weak link between those financial instruments and the overall objectives and priorities of the eu; the mention of microcredit, which is mainly aimed at micro-entrepreneurs and disadvantaged people who wish to start their own business, is key to overcoming barriers to access to traditional banking services. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ smes are the key growth engine of the eu economy in terms of both employment and competitiveness. there are over 23 million smes in the eu, providing some 100 million jobs. promoting their development is a key objective for the european union. in a difficult economic crisis such as the one that is still unfolding, smes need to be helped to promote their competitiveness and innovation, and in this respect the esi funds are effective instruments for achieving this objective. as this house has repeatedly argued, however, simplified procedures for accessing funds are needed, together with coordination with all eu investment policies for smes. only in this way and through synergistic action can the impact and effect of investment be maximised to create a positive development and growth ecosystem. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the d'amato report on promoting the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as they are fundamental to the eu economy, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. in fact, they account for 99% of european enterprises and provide about two thirds of private sector jobs. moreover, this theme is essential for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. as cohesion policy for 2014-2020 will double funding for smes for the period 2007-2013 to €140 billion, i welcome the proposal to simplify european, national and regional legislation to make it easier for smes to access finance.
in writing. ‒ promoting the competitiveness of enterprises is a priority to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. small and medium-sized enterprises are crucial for the economic development of eu regions, as they promote both competitiveness and employment. in the 2007-2013 period, cohesion policy provided businesses with €70 billion to support their activities. the objective for the period 2014-2020 is to double the share, including through the contribution of financial instruments. i voted in favour of the implementation of the sme thematic objective within cohesion policy because i believe it is an effective instrument for the implementation of operational programmes focused on investment policies, capable of setting specific objectives in terms of economic growth and employment. it is important to emphasise that this approach recognises the importance of local authorities in the territorial dimension of operational programmes and aims to simplify and reduce administrative burdens so that they can access and use eu financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the promotion of entrepreneurship is an important incentive for the growth of smes on national and international markets. it is well known that smes are the engine of economic growth in the eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. in this context, cohesion policy 2014-2020 is an effective catalyst for investment to promote and support, through a range of innovative financial instruments, the start-up and development of smes. however, the complex management of the structural funds and administrative burdens, as well as the limited access of smes to finance, have so far led to insufficient absorption of funds and acceleration is needed in this direction. it is therefore essential that member states and regions provide effective information and support mechanisms to enable smes to benefit from european funds. strong synergies between the esi funds and other sme-related financial policies and instruments will maximise the impact of investment and make the results of cohesion policy investment tangible, helping to shape the current and future growth of regions in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of promoting the competitiveness of smes because i believe that they are of fundamental importance to the eu economy. moreover, the competitiveness of smes promotes economically and environmentally sustainable and responsible growth at community, national and regional levels.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a key instrument for encouraging investment in the union. the report by mrs d'amato, the first signatory of the m5s, focuses on promoting the competitiveness of european small and mediumsized enterprises, the real economic and employment backbone of europe with over 100 million jobs, and identifies critical points and areas for improvement in the design of the new programming. firstly, a strong and decisive reference to austerity policies and the economic crisis as the cause of the suffocation of domestic demand. in addition, red tape and regulatory jungle are further obstacles to doing business and investing in the real economy. the report calls for greater transparency in public procurement and the use of european funds, for the commission and the member states to be careful and rigorous in their payments, and for greater access to credit for smes. the entire production system needs to be rethought so that concrete steps can be taken towards a circular economy and energy transition, while creating jobs and green jobs. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is a key element of the european economy and of a successful cohesion policy. while there are some reservations about the link between sme support and migration management, which should remain separate policies, this report adequately addresses key issues for smes such as cutting red tape, simplifying access to credit for smes and exchanging best practice between member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i consider small and medium-sized enterprises to be important for our economy and should be helped.
in writing. ‒ smes represents 99% of businesses in the eu, is of huge importance to the european economy and stand for large parts of innovation and economic growth in the eu. linked to this is also that those smes provide around 100 million jobs in the eu and that they maintain double the employment growth compared to larger companies. this report touches on many topics that i think are very important; such as simplifying and deregulate smes access to credit, enchanting support to smes from esi funds and removing obstacles against smes in public procurement. smes are the backbone of our economy and i support this report and its objective to make business easier for them.
in writing. ‒ the potential for the most dynamic socioeconomic growth in individual regions and the european union as a whole lies in the momentum of small and medium-sized enterprises. and smes are the main source of development, innovation and employment in the eu, ensuring job growth and new labour market prospects, the development of fields such as research and innovation capable of promoting new and alternative professions and enterprises to the existing market threatened by saturation, openness to simplification, training and the creation of partnerships to make access to dedicated funds wider, more participatory and democratic. the european small and mediumsized enterprises are not only the roots of our economy but also the most ambitious prospects for the economic recovery of tomorrow. that is why i think it is important to support the report fully.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the thematic objective 'promoting the competitiveness of smes', because i am aware of the fundamental and irreplaceable role of smes for the economy of the eu regions and territories and their role in terms of employment and competitiveness. i am firmly convinced that as a result of the economic and financial crisis, levels of poverty and social exclusion have increased in many member states, along with longterm unemployment, youth unemployment and social inequalities. in certain areas, however, only small and mediumsized enterprises can generate economic recovery and secure the future of our young people, and i am therefore firmly convinced that cohesion policy is the main instrument for investment in the eu territories. i therefore share the call to defend cohesion policy in the next financial period and to continue the process of simplification which makes it easier for local and regional authorities to access the available funding. finally, i believe that the thematic objective 3 'promoting the competitiveness of smes' can and should have more resources given the number of smes in europe and their percentage share of the number of people employed in the eu.
in writing. i vote in favour of the proposal to promote the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). a fund to promote smes was already made available during the period 2007-2013, and this has given excellent results in the field of employment and competitiveness. in fact, according to the commission's 2014/2015 annual report, smes contributed almost more than 70% of the increase in employment, employing almost 90 million people. in view of the excellent results, the amount of funds earmarked for promoting the competitiveness of smes is now to be doubled. given the current situation, namely a period of crisis characterised by an increase in youth unemployment, and also taking into account that smes are essential channels for the development of the economies of european countries, i believe it is essential to invest and intervene to promote the growth and competitiveness of smes.
in writing. – regarding the report on implementation of the thematic objective ‘enhancing the competitiveness of smes,’ i voted in favour since i believe that in these times of uncertainty, a large number of citizens will benefit from the direct creation of 354 300 new jobs resulting from the support that will be given to companies and enterprises. on the other hand, i also voted favourably because i truly consider that cohesion policy represents the main tool for investment in growth, which in the long-run can have potentially outstanding effects in the development of member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has always maintained that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the union's economy and have enormous potential in terms of job creation. i therefore voted in favour of mr d'amato's report on the implementation of the thematic objective of promoting the competitiveness of smes because i believe they are the engine of europe's long-term economic growth as well as the opportunity to create sustainable jobs in the 28 member states. in the 2007-2013 period, cohesion policy provided businesses with €70 billion to support their activities. the objective for the period 2014-2020 is to double the share, including through the contribution of financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i have always been convinced that the priority of eu action must be job creation. in order to create jobs, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) need to be adequately supported. they are crucial to the economies of the eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund and its impact on the environment and the environment. the achievement of these ambitious objectives must be adequately monitored by the european parliament. our task must be to avoid wasting resources, but above all to support the commission in formulating the most appropriate proposals. as regards the promotion of the competitiveness of smes, i believe it is of the utmost importance to invest in the training of employees and to encourage the recruitment of young people of merit and talent. i am convinced that the human factor is the determining factor in the success of companies. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ smes are the backbone of the european production system and the main engine of economic growth: they account for about 99% of all firms and 67% of total employment in the non-financial sector. i agree with the own-initiative report which recommends further strengthening the support of the european structural and investment funds for smes, reducing administrative burdens, diversifying sources of finance and simplifying access to credit, taking into account the particular characteristics of micro-enterprises and start-ups and the context in which they operate. in order to ensure the effectiveness of cohesion policy post-2020, i hope that these recommendations of parliament can guide the discussion and action to strengthen the competitiveness of smes and to remove the obstacles that prevent or slow down their growth. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the d'amato report analyses at a holistic level the different aspects concerning the implementation of thematic objective 3 (tg3) in the 2014-2020 programming of the structural and investment funds. increased investment to improve access to credit, less bureaucracy, less delays in public administration payments, more transparency in public procurement and more circular economy are some of the important points that were voted on and approved by a very large majority in our 5-star colleague's report this week in strasbourg. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country where it is found. the report sets out the way forward for europe: the key points are, for example, socially responsible internationalisation and an integrated process of regional and european policy, without forgetting to promote the transition to the circular economy and to initiate a decisive process of decarbonisation and self-production of energy in favour of renewable sources. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'promoting the competitiveness of smes' as smes play a key role in the economy of the eu regions, in terms of employment and competitiveness. more than eur 63 billion has been allocated for the 2014-2020 funding period to boost the competitiveness of smes. i am in favour of this report because it stresses the need for simplification of administrative procedures and the need for better access to finance for smes. i also stress the importance of central governments giving local authorities more decision-making powers in the management of esi funds.
in writing. ‒ the report we have approved today is designed to analyse in a holistic way the promotion of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the new programming period 2014-2020. it stresses that the 23 million smes are very diverse and therefore require a legislative approach adapted to the different contexts. the report contains several positive aspects: the committee of the regions calls for the added value of smes' projects for the development and innovation of traditional sectors to be taken into account. in addition, there is a call for a circular economy in order to promote more sustainable economic growth. finally, it is recalled how important it is for smes that public procurement is organised in a transparent, consistent and innovative way. other aspects which have prompted me to vote in favour are the mention of microcredit, which is aimed mainly at micro-entrepreneurs and at overcoming the obstacles to access to traditional banking services, and, not least, the emphasis on the difficulties faced by smes on a daily basis, which the european union and the member states are certainly not helping with their austerity policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the d'amato report, an implementation report which analyses 'holistically' the different aspects of the implementation of the new 2007-2014 programming thematic objective (to) 3, which concerns the promotion of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. the ot has a budget of eur 63 billion, of which eur 94 billion is cofinanced by the national authorities, and covers 23 million smes, representing some 99% of all enterprises. the commission is reminded of the importance of transparent public procurement; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the report's many positive points highlight the need to simplify european, national and regional legislation to facilitate access to credit. corporate social responsibility is highlighted; the fact that austerity policies have stifled demand and financial instruments have not helped the sector; the importance of microcredit and the need to find a solution to delays in payments related to regional policy are mentioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to explain why i voted against the resolution signed by mr bresso. we, as the gue/ngl group, have tabled a number of amendments to this text to clarify a point which is fundamental to us: the commission has already made it clear that there can be no alpine strategy which does not respect the will of the people. in particular, i believe that the failure to involve the "no tav" movement in the consultation on the alpine region launched by the european commission in 2014 is unfortunately a very, very serious shortcoming. we therefore strongly urge that the tav, the high-speed turin-lyon line, be stopped, as it has been shown to be harmful to the health of citizens, and as it has been shown to be unnecessary for the strategy and for transport needs. we really think that the people must be involved and their will in that region respected.
in writing. ‒ the report is somewhat appreciated in many respects, but still very problematic in others. for example, among the positive points, the approach to biodiversity and the preservation of the region's ecosystem is noteworthy, underlining the urgent need to develop new strategies to combat air pollution. however, the report also contains references to the turin-lyon treaty. there are also other points which should be dealt with differently. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the alpine regions, thanks to a strong bottom-up approach, have led to the development of the eusalp strategy, with the aim of effectively addressing the challenges common to the entire alpine area. the environment, agriculture, the risk of depopulation, employment, transport, research and governance are just some of the issues addressed in the commission's proposal, issues which have been taken up with particular effectiveness by the bresso report, which i have decided to support with conviction. the union's strategy must aim to reconcile environmental sustainability with economic development in a natural area that is already a major tourist destination. the 48 regions involved, divided between seven states, retain many differences but share common problems and high capacities. however, resources are needed to unlock the potential of the territories. the european institutions and the commission must create a genuine investment platform for the alpine region, a flexible instrument that makes it possible to mobilise public and private funding. a pipeline project for the region is needed to attract investors and new forms of multi-level governance with community contributions. eusalp is a great opportunity to make the alps one of the innovation centres of europe.
in writing. ‒ the alpine macro-region is a project of fundamental importance for the regions of northern italy, primarily veneto and lombardy, which, together with the other 46 european regions involved, are the beating heart of the european economy. thanks to the eusalp macro-regional strategy, which covers a territory of 80 million citizens, our northern regions will be able to manage the large amounts of eu funding for joint projects in the fields of environment, tourism, transport and energy on their own. i have supported the eusalp project from the outset, together with the northern league, because it is a unique opportunity for economic development and governance for our territories, our companies and our citizens. for all these reasons i supported the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ given the strategic importance of the alpine region, given its geographical position in the heart of europe, but also as a 'water reservoir' for the energy challenges facing the eu, the alpine strategy is intended as a macro-regional framework for enhanced cooperation. the alpine region is made up of a wide variety of territories, which share common characteristics and therefore require joint governance; eusalp would bring together seven countries, five of which are eu members (including italy) and two non-members. the report, which i support, highlights the potential of the alpine region for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which combines social, economic and environmental interests. the eusalp action plan is a valuable opportunity to increase crossborder cooperation between the alpine states, identifying common objectives for the region and facilitating the creation of common policies. the ultimate aim of this strategy is to enhance the attractiveness and competitiveness of the alpine area, focusing on the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of cultural heritage, starting with local communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i am convinced that the eu strategy for the alpine region can play a significant role in efforts to revive the alpine economy and to combat the depopulation of the area, in particular the exodus of young people. i appreciate that the european structural investment funds offer potentially significant resources and a wide range of tools and options for the eu strategy for the alpine region. however, greater synergies and the promotion of coordination and complementarities with the european structural and investment fund (esif) and other relevant funds and instruments under the pillars of the strategy, in particular horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, the life programme, the cosme programme for smes, the interreg programme 'alpine space' and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), for which the commission should examine the possible added value of specific calls focusing on challenges of particular relevance to the alpine region, are needed. i also invite the eib, in cooperation with the commission, to consider the possibility of creating an ad hoc investment platform for the alpine region which would enable public and private finance to be mobilised.
in writing. ‒ although the report deals comprehensively with several important issues, such as the issue of biodiversity and the preservation of the region's ecosystem, the issues of employment and innovation, and stresses the importance of ensuring fast and efficient access to high-speed internet, i regret that no mention is made of any of them in the tav. the delegation of the five star movement had tabled four amendments, three of which concerned the tav and one the public water supply, all of which were rejected. the text also calls for the creation of a pipeline project for the region to attract investors and explicitly calls on the commission, the eib and the participating countries to make full use of the opportunities offered by the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to finance projects in the region. for these reasons i have decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european union has dedicated a strategic development plan for the alpine region (eusalp) which affects 80 million inhabitants in 7 states and 48 regions, inside and outside the european union. although the region is already covered by various cooperation agreements, connectivity is limited, logistical problems and climate change create disadvantages and limit production activities. eusalp's strategy is built on three pillars: improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion; ensuring accessibility and connectivity; promoting the alpine cultural heritage and the sustainable use of natural resources. i voted in favour of this important report because it provides solutions to common problems and challenges in the alpine region, which includes six italian regions.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by mrs bresso on the need to increase and fully implement the eu strategy for the alpine region. this is an ambitious project of territorial cohesion which would allow the full and complete development of the strong potential characteristic of the whole macro-region and from which our country will be able to derive great benefit. the juncker plan introduced an investment plan for the european union, establishing the european fund for strategic investments, further opportunities for the macro-region to undertake new investment projects and to complete those already under way. synergies between the various funding instruments available to the union and coordination systems between local and supranational bodies are intended to encourage innovation and the development of new technologies, while maintaining traditional forms of economic activity, which are the engines of local productivity. it is therefore essential to ensure better accessibility and connectivity to the whole area in a manner consistent with the protection of the alpine environment. alpine flora and fauna are in fact valuable assets in their own right, capable of ensuring a distinctive well-being and therefore needing to be protected and developed. i hope that, in terms of greater coordination between the different institutional levels, a lean governance will be established, free from any bureaucratic burdens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, through the eusalp plan, the alpine macro-region will benefit from new funding from the european fund for strategic investments and will have the opportunity to implement joint projects with a european impact. i also believe that the strategy structured around three pillars, including improving the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, increasing accessibility and strengthening the region's transport sector and promoting the alpine heritage and the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources, represents a good starting point.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the strategy as i consider it an important initiative for the development of the alpine area in the context of international cooperation in the commercial, tourist and cultural fields. in addition, this initiative represents another point in favour of european integration also at macro-regional level in the sharing of stable economic growth and common cultural values.
in writing. ‒ although the report contains a number of positive elements, the rapporteur's intention to promote the construction of major projects such as the high-speed rail link between turin and lyon is clearly stated. m5s has tabled amendments to the text to prevent projects harmful to health and the environment, not economically viable and, in particular, in the case of the tav, completely useless as the existing track is functional, recently renovated and underused, from being carried out today and in the future. the amendments tabled were rejected, so i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the alpine strategy because it represents a good opportunity to relaunch and complete joint investments for the countries of the region. the potential of the alpine region is vast, so a joint planning capacity of the alpine countries and regions, local authorities and all public and private actors in the area is needed in line with the major european objectives of europe 2020. i believe that this requires the design and implementation of projects with a macro-regional dimension, which do not overlap with existing interregional cooperation but which are capable of adding value.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i agree with the planning of a series of ad hoc investments for the alpine region which will enable public and private funding to be mobilised.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it aims to improve the eus policies in regards to the alpine region and give existing eu instruments more flexibility to act according to this regions special needs and prospects. the report underlines many important areas of priority for the region and outlines which issues the eu should invest in and support. if there is one thing that is important in this alpine strategy then it is the development of the regional labour market and to develop opportunities for agriculture, forestry and craft based economic activities in the region. other major priorities in the alpine region are better digital connections and to promote the self-generation of energy.
in writing. ‒ i agreed with the draft resolution of the european parliament on a european union strategy for the alpine region because i believe that macro-regional strategies are an essential tool for rethinking the development of territories in a new perspective of economic, territorial, cultural, historical and social cohesion of the european union. the objective of the macro-regions is to ensure that better and more tangible results are achieved for the different regions that are part of them, through a common approach and a focus on the coordination of different interests. it can therefore be considered as a model of multi-level governance in which all the parties involved, i.e. local entities, national and regional authorities, play a primary and equal role. as with other macro-regional strategies, the alpine macro-region also contributes to the consolidation of regional identities and cultural heritage, as well as to the protection of a folk heritage and biodiversity that must not be lost. i share the rapporteur's call for the european commission, in collaboration with the european investment bank, to consider the possibility of creating an investment platform capable of attracting public and private finance in a region of some 80 million people.
in writing. today we are approving the action plan for the alpine strategy (eusalp). this strategy is based on the concept of macro-regions and their importance as a means of cooperation and development of synergies between the different eu funding instruments. it also encourages innovation and the use of new technologies in the economy; promotes tourism and the importance of transport connectivity; and enhances the biodiversity of regions. finally, it calls on the member states to coordinate their national and regional policies in order to achieve the objectives of european action effectively.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the tools alongside citizens, whose resources fall entirely to the territories, and remains one of the sources of direct eu investment in regions and local authorities. in particular, the alpine strategy offers an opportunity to invest in joint projects, developing new forms of multi-level governance where the eu and regions interact effectively. investing in eusalp means adding value to existing crossborder cooperation in territories with 80 million inhabitants and 48 regions. i therefore welcomed the proposal to create an investment platform for the alpine region which would enable public and private funding to be mobilised, including through the eib and the opportunities of the efsi. in particular, i support the idea that a digital policy is needed for this region, which offers more possibilities for openness and contact. the internet can be a tool for improving infrastructure, services and communication, to the benefit of both the region's inhabitants and the tourists who visit these areas every year. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe it will make a fundamental contribution to the recovery and development of the regions concerned.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. this macro-region has a strategic role for the union from a cultural, geographical and commercial point of view, making effective cross-border cooperation between those areas indispensable. however, due to its specificities, this macro-region is exposed to challenges that threaten it and at the same time hinder its enormous potential. difficult connections, high sensitivity to climate change, critical issues in the development of energy infrastructure and promotion of start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises are some of the issues to which the report offers concrete solutions. the role of the strategy is to maximise synergies between existing cooperation and to ensure that they are in line with the european macro-objectives, while also strengthening them in the areas most critical to achieving sustainable development in the area. the european parliament, in promoting this report, also wants to stress the need for an approach which starts from the territory, but which at the same time allows for a large-scale impact, in accordance with an intelligent application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ in addition to thanking the rapporteur for her work, i would like to reiterate my idea and the importance of key projects for sustainable european transport and as an incentive for the whole territory and the neighbouring regions. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ european macro-regions can provide the institutional framework within which to promote the exchange of good practice and the implementation of ambitious joint projects. europe is rich in different geographical areas, each with its own peculiarities. the alpine region is undoubtedly a part of the eu territory which offers countless opportunities for economic and social development. this report stresses in particular the importance of encouraging innovation and the development of new technologies in key sectors of the economy, while also maintaining traditional forms of economic activity; supports the diversification of tourism, stresses the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity and protecting and enhancing the biodiversity of the alpine region. all of these objectives are central to the implementation of a strategy which combines tradition and modernity. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that crossborder cooperation between regions is the key to better management of europe's territory.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy for the alpine region involves several member states, including italy and france, through the turin-lyon rail link. although the bresso report refers to the issues of depopulation in mountain areas, the importance of ensuring fast internet access to enable digital and online services, including e-commerce and teleworking, and although the theme of biodiversity and the preservation of the ecosystem is also mentioned, many critical issues still remain. the main problem we are facing is the danger of a great waste of money on the existing and recently modernized turin-lyon line. this route could already eliminate the traffic of goods between italy and france. the project therefore appears to us to be a useless transfer of wealth to the large companies which will be awarded the contracts. although the report shows signs of improvement, the system of contracts and subcontracts envisaged for the construction of the project will make it difficult to monitor the regularity of the work. for the reasons stated above, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region, which envisages an investment that will benefit 80 million people, 7 different countries and 48 regions inside and outside the eu. the alpine region is already involved in several cooperation agreements but needs improved transport links, a solution to the logistical problems of smes and is suffering the negative effects of climate change. this strategy will help to develop employment, economic growth and innovation in the territory. through the investment plan and the european fund for strategic investments, the report will support small and medium-sized enterprises in the alpine area, promote sustainable and competitive tourism, enhance transport infrastructure by making the construction of cross-border corridors fully operational, protect the alpine heritage by promoting a sustainable use of natural and cultural resources and protect alpine agriculture, biodiversity and ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the creation of the alpine macro-region, bringing together very rich and similar economic, productive and tourist realities, is an important vehicle for increasing the competitiveness of these areas, but i also believe that it should promote social inclusion and the protection of local populations. to do this, it is essential to address the enormous disparities in social, medical and structural services between the various areas of the regions concerned: mountain areas and urban centres in the first place. the same applies to the employment and study opportunities available to people in the most remote areas. i am convinced that great attention must also be paid to the demographic question, which, in addition to the ageing of the population and the depopulation of mountain areas, is also characterized by new migratory flows. i believe that these phenomena must be tackled actively. finally, i believe that it is essential to develop public services linking remote areas to urban centres, as well as strong support for smes and the promotion of local products. to do this, and to stimulate the creation of quality jobs, it is essential to bridge the digital divide and make new technologies more widespread and accessible to the whole population.
in writing. following our contributions, the report has improved considerably from the first draft, and now also calls for safeguarding the existing alpine convention, managing the risk of natural disasters and climate change, ensuring participation and access to documents, promoting renewable, local and self-production energy, smes and sustainable tourism, renewing and making optimal use of existing networks and infrastructure, protecting biodiversity, soil and water, and taking action against air pollution. however, one of the main aims of the report is to pursue potentially dangerous and environmentally harmful projects such as tav, according to the explanatory statement of the report itself. the report does not even mention the turin-lyon issue and it wants to finance projects through the eib which we fear are yet another new infrastructure project which might not have been possible using the structural funds because they are not in line with the objectives of europe 2020 and the eu. i have therefore refrained from making any judgments now, but will give an estimate in a few years' time, in the light of how this strategy has been implemented in practice, beyond the stated aims.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa is a very important tool for promoting social and economic development in african regions, for example by providing young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and create job opportunities. i believe that promoting the economic and social development of these areas is also of fundamental importance in combating regular migration, which has been a serious problem for the member states for some years now. that is why i spoke positively.
in writing. ‒ the valletta summit on migration on 15 november 2015 launched the eu trust fund for africa, which aims to promote stability in the regions concerned and contribute to better migration management. the corrao report, which i supported today, effectively underlines the objectives of the fund and the difficulties it has encountered to date. there is a clear funding problem. the member states have paid little and not followed up on their promises with concrete action. the etf's financial envelope should be increased to allow for a rapid and flexible disbursement of funds in emergency situations. the new instrument should be used to contribute to the development of migrants' countries of transit and origin by improving local public services, political participation and governance, mainly through community-based projects. the european response to the migration crisis must be multi-pronged, but the etuf can be a concrete support to improve security and ensure the development of the least developed african countries.
in writing. ‒ although it is a more balanced text than many others which have in the past dealt with africa as the subject of european cooperation interventions, i believe that it contains criticisms and gaps which have led me to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ given the crisis situation and general instability in the sahel, north africa and horn of africa regions and the clear humanitarian impact on europe in terms of large migratory flows, a coordinated european union intervention in the regions concerned is essential. that is why i support the initiative on the european trust funds for africa. i believe that long-term planning is needed, including measures to eradicate the root causes of migration, starting with poverty and socio-political instability in the countries of mass emigration. the need is to go beyond programmes of a purely emergency nature, such as border controls, and to provide funds for regional and local development, establishing a genuine partnership between member states, ngos and local communities. in the resolution adopted today, parliament stresses the need for monitoring and transparency in the disbursement of funds where respect for human rights is a necessary condition for appropriation. a clear commitment by member states is therefore essential to deal with a transnational emergency which requires a coherent response by the european union.
in writing. ‒ the migration problem cannot be tackled effectively without putting the need to bring stability, development and peace to the regions of origin of migrants at the heart of the matter. a purely military or legal approach to the problem cannot solve the phenomenon which, with its dramatic humanitarian consequences and the suffering we see every day, is likely to worsen every day. it is necessary to understand that the majority of migrants do not leave their homes for ideological reasons or in search of exaggerated expectations about their standard of living but, much more concretely, because their survival is at risk in their country of origin because of poverty, war, disease, famine, ethnic or religious persecution. if we are to solve this 21st century drama at its root, we must bring peace and development to those regions: the eu trust fund for africa is an important first step in this direction.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to support the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) which helps to promote stability in the regions of the area and contributes to better management of migration. however, i am concerned about the lack of coordination between all actors involved in the management of the eu trust fund, in particular between the commission's directorate-general for international cooperation and development (dg devco) and its department for humanitarian aid and civil protection (echo), and the lack of clear guidelines on how to access the available funds. the funding criteria and the funds available to civil society under the eu trust fund should be clearer and more transparent. the commission should also systematically monitor the way in which the eu trust fund resources are used and the allocation arrangements, and enhance parliament's scrutiny prerogatives in relation to the eu trust fund. i call on the commission to undertake a more systematic assessment of the impact of its policies and funding, including the eu trust fund, especially in relation to their effects on sustainable development, human rights and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the trust fund for africa responds to the need to address the root causes of migration by acting to create development. to this end, it is necessary to work in the long term, with planning and not just in an emergency mode, investing above all in essential services such as education, health, vocational training and primary public services. the text does not fail to point out that the real problem is that states, at international summits and summits, make a big deal of themselves, but then, once the spotlight is turned off, they forget the promises made. all this is well expressed in the report by mr corrao, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa, signed by the commission, 25 member states, norway and switzerland, was launched at the valletta migration summit on 12 november. i consider the establishment of this fund to be significant, since its main objective is to promote stability in the region and to contribute to better management of migration. more specifically, the fund should address the causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration on the one hand and promote resilience, economic opportunities, security, equal opportunities and development on the other. i am interested to see this initiative address some important aspects of the migration crisis. however, it is unlikely that action will be effective as long as the member states do not keep their promises to contribute. i voted in favour because the priority of european action must be to try to restore stability and security and to promote development in the countries from which migration originates. it is also necessary to ensure that the fund, which is used for cooperation projects, is used mainly for the purposes of education and protection of minors, job creation and environmental projects.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the corrao report on the implications for development and humanitarian aid in africa. launched in valletta in 2015, the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is a hot topic. in particular, addressing the root causes of migration, the report proposes effective solutions, such as simplifying the disbursement of funds to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the african region. in fact, in the face of the serious migration crisis, i believe it is important to concentrate resources on the completion of long-term objectives capable of ensuring peace and stability on the african continent.
in writing. ‒ the european trust fund for africa aims to help promote stability, security and development in african regions affected by migratory flows. the fund also aims to identify and address the root causes of destabilisation and irregular migration. i share these objectives and believe that the member states should contribute to the fund in such a way as to make it stronger and more effective. understanding the complexity and multi-dimensional nature of the migration crisis, i also believe that it is appropriate to monitor the proper use of european funds in the territories concerned. the final objective of the european fund for africa is to promote peace and stability in critical territories by providing resources and strengthening local governance capacity.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa was conceived as a financial assistance instrument for 23 countries in three african regions comprising some of the african states most affected by migratory movements and situations of social and economic instability. by voting in favour of this resolution, i express my support for this important instrument for promoting economic growth, regional stability and the integrated management of migration flows. the trust fund shall be established in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the eu has a responsibility to provide targeted responses to global humanitarian crises and post-emergency crisis situations. this fund, which is mainly drawn from the 11th european development fund (edf), helps to make up for shortcomings in member states' official development assistance and the insufficient resources and flexibility of the eu budget and the multiannual financial framework. finally, the eu trust fund for africa should foster policy coherence for sustainable development and complementarity between all development actors and programmes.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to establish a european trust fund for africa in order to have the necessary resources available in a shared and flexible way to enable a rapid and comprehensive response to the migration phenomenon. the fund will ensure a better balance of funding to governments and trusted actors of civil society in the beneficiary countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ solidarity and respect for human rights must remain the fundamental values of the european union and the objectives to be pursued at all times. however, europe needs to concentrate its resources and efforts by selecting the most effective means at its disposal, avoiding first of all the fragmentation of the financial instruments which are the responsibility of the european union. i voted against the report on the trust fund for africa because there is too high a risk of misuse of european union development aid, particularly in those countries most affected by conflict where security, migration and development are closely interlinked, and therefore a complex and multi-dimensional crisis.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining from the report because it could be more incisive and detailed about the projects that would be developed.
in writing. ‒ the trust fund for africa risks remaining an empty instrument if the pledge of commitments is not followed by concrete action by member states. the national contributions which have been allocated to date are in fact insignificant: the commission has already announced that it will be providing eur 81.71 million, less than 5% of the eur 1.8 billion planned. the eu trust fund aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic prospects, equal opportunities, security and development. in order to achieve these objectives, we call for promises and commitments to be translated into concrete action. and we remind the commission that the trust fund for africa should contribute to development in the countries of transit and origin of migrants, as well as to strengthening and improving local public services mainly through community-based projects. we believe that the fund should help to create employment in local sectors, while ensuring respect for human rights and the protection of the environment. the commission should monitor how the fund's resources are used and the way they are allocated, while this house should exercise a monitoring function on the way the fund is implemented.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate the work of my colleague and i am convinced that thanks to the contribution of my group we now have an improved text. i reiterate my contribution to the fight against discrimination based on religion or belief, sex, race or ethnic origin, disability and sexual orientation.
in writing. ‒ the trust fund for africa is a development cooperation mechanism that aims to address the causes of irregular migration from the most fragile and migration-affected african countries and provides for relocation to cities of origin, transit and destination through a number of priority areas. i am voting in favour of the report by my colleague, and i hope that this development mechanism will allow a real, rapid and collective response to the problem of migration on the ground and in the transit regions. i hope that the trust fund for africa will also help to ensure respect for human rights and have a positive impact on the lives of millions of people, especially in the light of the current crisis in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has allocated €1.8 billion of eu financial resources to set up an 'emergency trust fund for stability and to address the root causes of illegal migration in africa'. a trust fund is a mechanism used in development cooperation to pool large resources from different donors. in particular, the european union wants to help the sahel region as a whole to face the growing challenges of demographic pressure, environmental stress, extreme poverty, internal tensions, weak institutions, weak social and economic infrastructure. this report addresses the many questions and concerns raised by the creation of the eutf (european trust fund for africa) in terms of funding, implementation and monitoring. the report provides a critical assessment of budgetary aspects and funding shortfalls by member states and calls on all stakeholders to promptly uphold their commitments and responsibilities. i think it is well worded and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the report by our colleague ignazio corrao on the trust fund for africa, for which the five star movement has always fought, was a success as it was approved by a large majority. the report calls for europe to allocate €1.8 billion for education, health, training and essential public services, and for the member states to do their part by contributing to the fund. if we really want to stop the flow of migrants to europe, we must root out the root causes of migration. if operated with specific periodic controls, involving ngos and local civil society in the planning and implementation of projects, the trust fund will prove to be an effective tool to achieve the objectives pursued. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trust fund for africa: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. in particular, the report highlights the importance of using the entire amount of the trust fund for purely development-oriented projects, including education, healthcare and infrastructure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to explain why i voted in favour of this report, which deals very specifically with various aspects of the gender pay gap, which is still very much present on our continent. overall, this is a good report, highlighting the impact of care work on women's employment: some 3.3 million women aged 15 to 34 have had to leave work to help members of their family. the report also highlights the need for targeted policies for work-life balance, as well as for women with disabilities, young people, migrants and lgbtqi people, who are often even more affected by discrimination in the workplace. the commission and the member states are therefore called upon to develop effective policies to combat gender stereotypes. we also voted in favour of the non-transferability of parental leave, as we believe that this is a strong signal that the european union must send to the member states. it also deals with the question of pensions. it 's a very delicate subject . the period of maternity is not counted as a period of maturation, a step forward in the career path, and we think that it should be equated.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to increase women's participation in the labour market by making the current eu legal and policy framework more modern and adapted to today's labour market, to enable people with children or other dependent family members to better balance family and working life, to allow for greater sharing of caring responsibilities between women and men and to strengthen gender equality in the labour market. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ work-life balance must be a guiding principle within the eu, especially at a time when it is facing a serious demographic challenge due to the steady decline in birth rates in the member states. the ždanoka and blinkevičiūtė report is an important step towards a series of reflections on this subject, which is why i have decided to support it. the text stresses the need for a cultural change, which targets gender stereotypes and allows for a more equal distribution of care work and activities between men and women. global packages of legislative and policy measures concerning work-life balance are needed. the proposals from the social partners must be complemented by action by the commission in the context of the announced european pillar of social rights. relevant policies and measures are needed to take account of the growing diversity of family relationships, such as civil unions and agreements between parents or grandparents, and to redefine the overall approach to the issue. thinking about work-life balance is an important part of creating a solid foundation for economic and social growth.
in writing. ‒ i believe that, while the report exposes real problems and offers ideas that can be shared, it does not formulate concrete solutions, nor does it acknowledge europe's role in aggravating the current social emergency. with these initiatives, the eu is only feeding propaganda, publicly defending the right of citizens to a healthy work-life balance, but in practice forcing member states to give up national agencies and other services. in italy, the cost of substitute services for domestic work and childcare in the absence of grandparents or other family members is on average about 500 euros per month. if there is no work to enable young people to start and maintain a family, if the supply of employment requires maximum flexibility for the couple, but public services are being reduced in order not to increase the expenditure constrained by the eu's covenants, what is the point of this initiative if not to feed a sterile and self-serving rhetoric? for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the right to work, family and private life has been recognised as a fundamental right for decades. some measures in this area have already been taken at european level (for example in support of women's work and maternity rights) and by some member states, but further steps are needed to ensure that everyone has an appropriate work-life balance: the balance benefits not only the individual in terms of personal well-being but also society as a whole; it has been shown that people who have a good work-life balance are more productive at work and less likely to seek public health services for conditions linked to psychological problems or stress. to this end, the working environment must be transformed by overcoming the notion that only time spent at work (paid) has utility and value. it is important that work-life balance policies adopt a life-cycle approach so that everyone can be supported at different points in their lives and can actively participate in the labour market and society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report in question, which i voted for, focuses on the causes that prevent individuals from achieving a balance between family and professional life and proposes a modernisation of the european legislative framework. the analysis focuses primarily on demographic changes in society, which create greater care needs, and the emergence of new ways of working. it then highlights the still markedly negative impact of parenting on female employment rates and the inadequacy of the current eu framework to address this all-important aspect of the continuing gender gap. the creation of conditions conducive to work-life balance and the achievement of a good quality of life is only possible if people have sufficient time outside work to devote to personal development. the report therefore calls on the commission to take more action against member states which do not implement the working time directive properly and encourages member states to introduce measures to support leave for education or training and interruption of work.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to increase women's participation in the labour market. in particular, the commission is asked to revise the maternity leave directive, to extend the minimum duration of parental leave with adequate substitute income and social protection from four to at least six months, to adopt a paternity leave directive providing for a minimum of two weeks of compulsory leave with full pay, to adopt a careers leave directive integrating the provision of occupational care, allowing workers to care for dependants and offering care providers adequate pay and social protection, and to support the development of 'smart working', an approach to work organisation based on a combination of flexibility, autonomy and collaboration, which does not necessarily require the worker to be present at the workplace or at another predetermined workplace and in any case allows the worker to manage his own working hours and to comply with the maximum working hours and working weeks established by law. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ there are still many disparities in the world of work: the most common are the gender pay gap or the lack of equal responsibility sharing. there is a need to adapt working conditions to the new requirements of changes and changes in society which inevitably have an impact on the labour market. i am thinking, for example, of the ageing population, which requires care and assistance, mostly provided by women. gender inequality has weakened the position of women in terms of employment, pay and career advancement. the solution must be found in new legislative instruments. we have therefore asked the commission to prepare new paternity leave directives providing for a mandatory, non-transferable minimum paid leave for fathers and a new proposal on leave for carers so that it is not only women who take up family leave. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it takes account of the need to protect the basic nucleus of human society, the family. in particular, i am pleased with the positive results achieved in the field of equal opportunities. the report provides a clear legislative framework which promotes women's participation in the labour market not only by calling for the elimination of gender inequalities but also by protecting parental leave. furthermore, given the current socio-economic challenges, i believe that promoting the concept of 'agile work' will facilitate work-life balance. the introduction of work from home and flexible working hours will give workers with dependent children the opportunity to manage their own commitments better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to ensure that the best interests of the child are a priority in the implementation of policies for the work-life balance of parents. let us not forget that women's work is still undervalued and that many employers regard motherhood as a negative discrimination. effective public and private support policies for children and parents are therefore needed to enable them to assume and share their educational and care responsibilities. i very much hope that the commission will present an ambitious new draft directive on maternity leave, not only to ensure the right balance between social and working life, but also to support families and combat inequalities, while protecting pregnant women and new mothers who are working.
in writing. ‒ the importance of work-life balance is to promote a balance between the different aspects of people's lives. this requires cross-cutting, structural and coherent policies, including effective incentives and measures to promote the reconciliation of work, family time, leisure and personal development. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission and the member states must adopt policies which improve the working environment, create good working conditions and social and occupational well-being, and at the same time a good work-life balance. this requires policies that also take into account the welfare and best interests of children and improve women's access to the labour market and the equitable sharing of domestic and caring responsibilities between women and men.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to support families in their professional and private lives and to ensure equal participation of men and women in the labour market. i have always fought for equal pay and promotion with the possibility of a satisfactory private life.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, while the report exposes real problems and offers ideas that can be shared, it does not formulate concrete solutions.
in writing. ‒ i think that this is a very important report that highlight the significant challenges that europe is facing in terms of its demographic future. to counter this, it is of crucial importance that the eu does what it can to promote a more family friendly approach to work. this is in order to give all of our citizens the possibility of have children without being penalised. a better work-life balance is also key in promoting the participation of women in the labour market. another point is that general well-being is an important factor in overall economic productivity in a modern society.
in writing. ‒ the message we have given today by adopting this text is that of a strong commitment by the eu parliament to the protection of human rights and freedoms. europe must use all the means at its disposal to ensure that the labour market is no longer threatened by discrimination of any kind. the global crisis we are facing already makes the situation dire, and the risk of poverty and social exclusion is too high: it is up to us to invest in measures that provide adequate social protection for workers, families, children and the most vulnerable. i therefore find it extremely important to stress the need to adopt urgently strengthened instruments for reconciling private and working life, for social and health care, for the right to the welfare of children and for the fight against poverty, for a europe which makes social policies the first pillar of our commitment in parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on creating favourable labour market conditions for work-life balance, for which i was shadow rapporteur for the s-d group in the empl committee, because it was necessary to give a convinced and broad response to the commission's proposal for a roadmap on work-life balance and to the various proposals for initiatives aimed at modernising the legislation in force on the revision of the maternity leave directive by improving parental leave, and the adoption of new directives on paternity and carer's leave. in the preparation of the report we have tried to highlight some good practices in relation to flexible working time arrangements as a useful tool for increasing the participation of women carers in the world of work. the unprecedented demographic challenges facing the eu, the insecurity of work and the difficulty of working conditions with a negative impact on work-life balance require precise responses from the eu and i look forward to a rather swift and targeted reaction in each of the areas we have addressed and finally adopted with the resolution.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on the creation of labour market conditions favourable to work-life balance. the report aims to modernise and adapt the eu's political and legal framework to the labour market and highlights several issues that should be reviewed, both at legislative and non-legislative level. the main point is clearly equal opportunities for men and women. the modernisation of these policies would enable families to achieve a balance between family and working life, ensuring that family responsibilities are shared equitably. the report also focuses on the development of children's potential, and therefore the need to provide quality, affordable and accessible childcare services, and the importance of spending more time with parents. these initiatives, which i support, are aimed at ensuring a better quality of life and greater safety for all those close to us.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this own-initiative report on work-life balance. the disparity between men and women in the use of leave is still very evident today: only 10% of fathers take at least one day of paternity leave, while 97% of women take the parental leave available to both parents. the european parliament decided to draw up this own-initiative report in order to give greater attention to the debate and to ask the commission to intensify its work in this field. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the iwg and will continue to monitor the implementation of the iwg. the report takes into account the link between the current unprecedented demographic challenges, job insecurity and difficult working conditions that have a negative impact on work-life balance. the primary focus is on the need to invest in social services, in particular care services for children, the elderly and other dependants. the importance of promoting quality employment, workers' rights and labour market security is also underlined.
in writing. ‒ i can only recall that the welfare and best interests of children must be a priority consideration in the design, monitoring and implementation of work-life balance policies. the text as a whole, with the exception of certain amendments tabled by other groups, is a good compromise and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the family is the backbone of european society and that much work still needs to be done to ensure the conditions for an effective reconciliation of work, private and family life. this is an area where, although some measures have already been taken at european and national level, further progress is needed to ensure that all citizens, and in particular women, have an appropriate work-life balance. we must not force women to choose between their careers and their families. women must be able to play their fundamental role as mothers, alongside the irreplaceable father figure, with the support of public policies that favour their work. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the resolution on the creation of favourable labour market conditions for work-life balance for a number of reasons. firstly, because reconciliation between working life and professional life is a right which must be available to everyone, and i hope that the commission will take action as soon as possible to adapt the legislation in force. secondly, i am pleased that parliament has once again recognised that there is no such thing as a 'family', but 'families': single-parent families, rainbow families, families where the partners are not married. eu and member state policies in this area must take account of this beautiful diversity.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, since january this year, this is the second time that the council has been asked to intervene on this issue of the situation in poland. let me start by saying that the presidency, and indeed all of us, agree that the protection of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in our union are of crucial importance. today’s debate relates to the follow-up to the dialogue established between the polish authorities and the commission concerning, in particular, the position of the constitutional tribunal and the governance of public media. as the presidency said here in january, both the independence of tribunals and freedom and pluralism of media are indispensable elements in ensuring the rule of law in a democratic society. the commitment to protecting and promoting human rights is a constant challenge, requiring unwavering attention and effort across the full range of policy areas. this is not the time to be complacent about the protection of fundamental rights. as we all know, the european union is currently facing multiple interrelated crises. those challenges test our core values in different ways, including in respect of fundamental rights, be it in the area of migration or internal security. it should be our joint commitment – member states and the eu institutions together – to ensure that these principles consistently remain a central part of our action. fundamental rights need to be upheld and defended as our best guarantee for sustainable, open and free societies. in june, the council stressed the importance of applying the charter of fundamental rights as a part of the wider set of applicable fundamental rights sources in the national context. also, this year’s rule of law dialogue in the council focuses on fundamental values in the context of the integration of third-country nationals. the rule of law and the separation of powers are at the heart of the european union and also of the wider european continent. our strongest partner, equally engaged in the promotion, protection and development of human rights and the rule of law, is the council of europe. in this context, i would like to mention three elements. firstly, the annual report of the secretary-general of the council of europe on the state of democracy, human rights and the rule of law has just been published, and i am of the view that being committed to the rule of law and fundamental rights also means being open to discussing problems and accepting constructive criticism. it is in that light that the report of the council of europe’s secretary-general is an important contribution. secondly, the same applies to the report by the council of europe commissioner for human rights, published in june 2016 following his visit to poland and taking into account the comments of the polish authorities. last, but not least, the council of europe’s guidance, in the form of the opinions of the venice commission in this area, is also of great value, and its views should be taken seriously by all member states. the council is aware of the situation and of the fact that the polish authorities are in constant contact with both the venice commission and the european commission. together they are working on finding a solution to the issues raised. vice-president timmermans will update us on the ongoing process and on his contacts with the polish authorities following the recommendation issued by the commission on 27 july 2016, and i look forward to hearing from him. the issues at stake go to the heart of our commitment to this union. we therefore trust that all sides act responsibly and constructively to reach a swift solution that leaves no doubt about our core values.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for putting the recent developments in poland on the agenda of the plenary today. the last time we discussed the issue of the rule of law in plenary was in january. today i would like to talk about what has happened since and what action the commission has taken. as you know, the dispute concerning the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal led the commission in january to open a dialogue with the polish government under the rule of law framework. we decided to do so because the rule of law is one of the fundamental values on which our union is founded, as enshrined in article 2 of the treaty. respect for the rule of law is also a prerequisite for upholding the full spectrum of eu law, including the proper functioning of the internal market, and for mutual trust throughout the union. i would like to thank parliament for the strong support for this position which is expressed in the resolution adopted in april. very similar concerns were expressed in an opinion of the council of europe venice commission last march, an opinion, i might add, that it issued at the explicit request of the polish government. since then extensive exchanges at various levels have taken place between the commission and the polish government. in order to set out the commission’s concerns in writing and to focus the ongoing dialogue with the polish authorities towards finding a solution in june, the commission adopted an opinion. following the opinion in july the polish parliament adopted a new law on the constitutional tribunal. despite certain improvements, major concerns remained as regards the composition of the constitutional tribunal, the publication of judgments and the effectiveness of constitutional review by the tribunal. for this reason, on 27 july, the commission adopted a rule of law recommendation setting out its remaining concerns and recommending how these could be addressed. the recommendation identifies three main issues: firstly, the composition of the constitutional tribunal, as the three judges lawfully elected in october by the previous legislator have still not been able to take up their function; secondly, the publication of all judgments of the tribunal, which should be automatic and should not depend on any decision of the executive or legislature; and, thirdly, the effectiveness of the functioning of the tribunal, which should not be undermined by the new law on the constitutional tribunal or by any other legislative reform. a functioning constitutional review procedure is also essential for ensuring full respect for the constitution by other important laws in a wide range of areas which have been adopted by the polish parliament. the commission asked the polish authorities to address the remaining concerns within three months from the adoption of the resolution. since our recommendation there have been a number of further developments, which i would like to mention. in particular, on 11 august, the constitutional tribunal rendered a judgment holding that a number of provisions of the new law on the constitutional tribunal are unconstitutional. however, the polish government refuses to recognise the validity of the judgment and to publish it in the official journal. moreover, while the polish government has published a number of other judgments rendered by the tribunal, it still refuses to publish the judgment of 9 march annulling the constitutional tribunal act adopted last december. therefore i must conclude that, at this stage, the dispute concerning the composition of the constitutional tribunal, and respect for its judgments, remains unresolved. that said, the commission stands ready to continue the constructive dialogue with the polish authorities in order to find solutions to the issues raised. to conclude, i would like to thank parliament for its continuous efforts to uphold the rule of law in the eu and for supporting the commission’s actions concerning the situation in poland. i would like to echo what was said by the representative of the council. upholding the rule of law is our joint responsibility, one that we all share – the commission, member states in the council, and this house. (applause)
the first thing i want to do, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, on behalf of the polish delegation, on behalf of my colleague mr liberadzki and his polish colleagues, is to express our feeling of fraternal warmth and friendship to the polish people. we fight for you. we fight with you, not against you. we are fighting for democracy, which is a supreme good that is in your hearts, polish friends, and in our hearts. there is a tendency to reduce basic freedoms, to create a kind of illiberal democracy. there are measures taken by the polish government that threaten the rule of law. and that is why we have a duty to act. it is easy to make propaganda, too easy to say that the european commission, vice-president timmermans, this parliament, the majority of this parliament, are against the polish people. it's not true, it's a lie. it is the laws adopted by the government that are in contradiction with the european union, of which poland is an important part. i say to the polish government, in a calm manner: be more calm, have more faith in your people! you can't hold an entire country hostage to your fears. but what do you have to fear from an autonomous constitutional court? what do you have to hide from the press, what? why all this police? have more faith in the polish people. change the law on the constitutional court to make it an independent institution that guarantees the freedom of your citizens. change the media law and don't try to give the police tasks they shouldn't have. in this dialogue with poland we support with all our strength and conviction the action taken by commissioner frans timmermans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the union has called its member states to order when the rule of law is in danger: it happened with hungary, in 2004 it happened with italy. today we are again speaking about constitutional democracy in poland. i am talking about constitutional democracy, not democracy, because winning a majority at the polls does not protect against regression. in poland, the regressions are multiplying: the constitutional court is not able to exercise full independence, new media and anti-terrorism laws reduce pluralism and data protection. my group will support the joint resolution and will table a number of amendments. we criticize the government's positions against muslim migrants and, with the greens, a government-backed abortion bill: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to terminate a pregnancy is respected. it has been said that we have no right to interfere in national politics, neither we nor the commission, but it seems to me that we are not interfering: we are remembering that there are rules that everyone has signed up to when they signed the treaties and that they are our common law. the leaders of hungary and poland announced a cultural counter-revolution a few days ago, which exalts christianity as our only root, the imaginary ethnic identities of the states, their semi-absolute sovereignty. it is all the more important to respond with this resolution to say what brings us together in europe, whether the market or the rule of law and constitutional democracy, both of which were regained after the two dictatorships of the 20th century.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how far can realpolitik go? in our relations with turkey, it has gone too far. we strongly condemn the military coup attempt, but we equally strongly condemn the successful coup attempt against erdogan: 100 000 purges in the public administration, 43 000 prisoners, 2 100 schools and universities closed, 3 500 judges and magistrates removed. while we are discussing this, turkey, under the pretext of attacking terrorism and isis, is instead attacking the ypg, those valiant kurds who have fought for months and years, and is putting a person like adnan tanriverdi, an islamist who is also suspected of radicalism, in charge of operation euphrates shield. when in our talks will we really put stakes in erdogan? when will we question a membership which has now definitively failed? the turkish government of mr erdogan has replaced the rule of law with the rule of law, and europe has replaced the rule of reason with the reasoning of certain states. we call on this parliament to say no to turkish blackmail and to return to making europe for once.
the question was clear: how do the returns work?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is an important partner for the european union: the decision to sign the agreement on the management of the flow of migrants last march was based on this consideration. however, for the european union, respect for human rights remains a fundamental principle, indispensable for the proper functioning of the agreements. the events that have unfortunately followed the coup have further worsened a situation which observers agree does not respect fundamental rights. i am of course in favour of dialogue with turkey, but the european union must find a way of ensuring that european standards of democracy are guaranteed in turkey, without "if" and without "but".
the debate is closed. i would also like to inform the house that no request has been received to put to the vote the amendments announced yesterday at 5 p.m. pursuant to rule 231 (4) of the rules of procedure. these amendments are therefore deemed to be approved. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the post-election situation in gabon.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i was part of the delegation, and i can therefore confirm what the head of delegation, mr jo leinen, said about the welcome we received in gabon. this welcome, in my opinion, was the welcome of someone who was receiving an electoral observation mission for the first time and expected from the electoral observation mission the certainty that there was no fraud, because more than talking about restoring trust - because there was no trust there, in fact everyone told us that there had definitely been fraud in the previous elections - our presence had such high media attention precisely because the gabonese wanted, they want from us, because the mission is still ongoing, the certainty and control of the regularity. unfortunately, the next day, as soon as the results were published, this kind of hope turned into disappointment. so we still have time, through our mission, but also through the dialogue with the african union, to try to rebuild this trust that we have really noticed from the gabonese and turn it into something concrete, because otherwise i think it is very difficult for the gabonese citizens to find a peaceful solution to this election result.
madam president, i had the privilege of being a member of the european parliament's delegation to the european union's election observation mission. the extraordinary momentum of the elections in that country was a sign of immense hope for the gabonese people, who, in going to the polls, demanded democratic institutions, demanded free political debate and also called for the alternation of power. these elections were a missed opportunity for the gabonese ruling class to prove to the entire african continent and the entire international community that it is capable of organizing a transparent election and of demonstrating the utmost responsibility throughout the electoral process. in a democracy, it is necessary to guarantee the possibility for opposition parties to develop and propose their own political project in complete autonomy and serenity in the greatest, purest tradition of political adversity. however, a few weeks after the vote, we express our deep disappointment at the lack of transparency in the management of the electoral process, which has particularly concerned the methods of financing the parties and the electoral campaign, as well as the control of all vital information, such as the electoral list and the list of polling stations. added to this is the excessive media coverage of the outgoing president and the lack of confidence of opposition candidates and part of civil society in the bodies responsible for the administration of the elections. we strongly condemn the loss of life and all forms of violence which followed the publication of the provisional results and which are still ongoing. i therefore ask that this violence cease. incidents that reflect a lack of transparency in the management of the electoral process, as well as the violent repression of protesters by security forces, all contribute significantly to the decline in confidence of voters and stakeholders. until the conclusion of the electoral process, the eu eom will continue to observe all stages, including the electoral litigation, in line with the protocol signed with the government. i ask president ali bongo to honour africa and also honour his people by resigning from the presidency due to the lack of transparency in the whole process. the people of gabon can count on the european parliament's unconditional support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it took this extraordinary migration crisis to open our eyes and to open the eyes of the european union and finally decide on the policy we have always called for, namely to help these peoples in their countries and perhaps to put an end to this vile trafficking in human beings, which is called immigration in the service of the big interests. we can ask the dalai lama tomorrow what he thinks about immigration, he said it in ten interviews: it is the uprooting of peoples, so you can have a different idea of immigration without being racist or xenophobic, because the dalai lama is neither racist nor xenophobic, nor is it comparable to these judgments the very important document that in italy three presidents of the most affected regions, three northern regions, have drawn up i will have the high representative pointing out some points. it is a balanced document, which deals in a secular, but intelligent and constructive way with the immigration emergency. we must recognize this state of emergency, the fact that the landing of illegal immigrants by sea is a wrong method that only serves the traffickers. we are now witnessing the tragedy of organ harvesting, a disgrace which europe should combat militarily, and we must support policies to combat trafficking and set up collection, identification and assistance centres in africa too. to be against this immigration is to have the right not to be silenced, as i heard in mrs mogherini's speech, to be the least racist. we reject this, which we consider unworthy of a political force, unworthy of our honour. we are against this immigration which means trafficking in human flesh, organ harvesting, trafficking by the mafia which you have not been able to combat adequately. it is time to start helping the people of africa and not serving the interests of the big banks and corporations. it's about time!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that: the european union found itself unprepared a year ago when mixed flows of refugees and migrants from the east and the south reached the european continent, some driven by war, persecution, and others seeking better opportunities. i think that next week's summit will serve as a reminder to us europeans that this is not a circumscribed phenomenon, affecting only our coasts or our borders. the large movements of people, refugees and migrants, are a global event and therefore require an equal approach. and where else to discuss global solutions but in the united nations, the most appropriate forum to firmly renew the values of the dignity and equality of every individual? i believe that in order to best address these movements of people, governments must have a clear distinction between the figure of the refugee and that of the migrant, not in the treatment of the human being, but in the formation of more appropriate, more appropriate policies, emergency measures for extraordinary situations in the case of refugees and long-term measures for the management of the migration flow. i hope that world leaders will be aware of the need to create a more responsible system, based on the paradigm shift proposed by the general assembly, namely the shift from burden sharing to responsibility sharing in managing large movements of people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too will be attending the new york summit, and while it is good that it is a new awareness that this is a global challenge which, as the high representative says, requires a global response, it is also unfortunate that the summit is turning out to be a missed opportunity. the commitment of the richest countries to take in 10% of the total number of refugees, which was called for by ban ki-moon himself, has been ignored. there is no concrete agreement, only good wishes and good intentions. the adoption of the two global compacts is also postponed until 2018, but people fleeing cannot wait two years, nor can developing countries, which are making the greatest efforts. only 27 countries have regular resettlement programs in the world. of course, we too would be more credible in calling for a global sharing of efforts if we set the right example internally. a year ago, european governments committed to resettlement and 160,000 relocations, and they did a few thousand, while canada, for example, resettled 25,000 syrians in four months, showing that the european problem is not a question of numbers or means, but solely and exclusively of political will.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the summit organized by the united nations, i look forward with interest to the meetings devoted to the private sector which will be held on the sidelines of the summit. i find this space significant as we know that the contribution made by ngos has proved indispensable in carrying out assistance and relief functions which local institutions and authorities, for lack of resources or mandate limits, cannot always provide; their role and contribution must be recognised and encouraged. i sincerely hope that at the next summit we will be able to find joint, sustainable and lasting solutions to the dramatic situation of the movement of migrants and refugees, so as to fill the gap in solidarity and responsibility that europe has unfortunately also experienced in recent times. and in my opinion, our greatest responsibility is to the unaccompanied minors. it is necessary, and we know we can count on you, mrs mogherini, to bring the plight of unaccompanied minors into the discussions of the summit to make the protection of children a priority, always and everywhere.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2011 just five years ago, many greeted with naïve enthusiasm the so-called "arab spring" that had turned prematurely into "islamic winters". despair has replaced dreams, fear has replaced optimism, violence has taken over the squares where previously peaceful demonstrations took place. what was then the leading country of democratic aspirations in the arab world, today, in a north africa and a middle east torn apart by civil wars and terrorism, pressured by the return of strongmen and by a lasting economic, political and social instability, assumes the role of last hope, the only torch in the darkness: that hope is called tunisia. unfortunately, its recent achievements represent an extremely fragile architecture which needs protection primarily from us europeans, its immediate neighbours. to this end, together with my fellow rapporteurs - whom i warmly thank for the important contributions proposed and for the extremely constructive spirit which has animated every phase of our work - i have addressed the pillars of the definitive consolidation of a partnership and cooperation which we want to be solid, lasting and fruitful for both sides, on a basis of equality and parity. economic development and security are inseparable. the terrorist threat is fuelled by many young people who, disappointed by the lack of immediate responses to the high expectations raised by the jasmine revolution, end up being easy prey for the recruiters of terrorist organizations, fueling the sad tunisian primacy of the number of foreign fighters. libya is there, a step away, as is the entire sahel region and its perennial pre-insurgency state, where armed jihadist gangs easily violate borders. on the other hand, the difficult economic and financial situation of the country, with a public debt now at 62% of gdp, with a further decline in tourism of 15%, makes it necessary to take action in good time. without real social inclusion, without a vigorous fight against unemployment, we may win some battles but we will lose the revolution. that is why we are calling in the report for a decisive increase in the european neighbourhood instrument and for coordination of aid from other donors. i welcome the recent statements by the high representative, who has repeatedly expressed his willingness to do so as early as next year. but we must have the courage to face up to the problem of the sustainability of tunisia's debt, which is the odious fruit of the years of dictatorship. the aim is to convert this into investment projects, in particular by exploiting the country's enormous renewable energy potential and by bridging the regional disparities, which are particularly evident in the south and west of the country. the sense of responsibility and commitment are certainly not lacking among the tunisians, who continue to act, despite some physiological turbulence, with a rare commonality of intentions. the cartagena agreement led to the creation of a new executive of national unity, open also to civil society. prime minister youssef chahed faces the enormous challenge of translating the necessary reforms into reality, on the one hand, by the socioeconomic recovery of the country, in particular by starting with the public administration and an effective anti-corruption plan, and on the other hand by the defense of public order and security, which is as effective as it is in accordance with constitutional principles and the rule of law - a difficult balance. the union and all of us europeans have an equally important duty to live up to the expectations we have raised and nurtured. in addition to financial aid, we must encourage circular mobility, visa facilitation, especially for artists, students and teachers, as well as all forms of partnership in the cultural sector. the stability of tunisia is our stability. the prosperity of tunisia is our prosperity. to achieve these goals, encouragement, however sincere, is no longer enough unless it is followed by action that lives up to the words of the poet abu l-qasim al-shabbi, always a symbol of the struggle against authoritarianism in the arab world, words that eventually became part of the national anthem: "if one day the people will desire to live, then fate will hear their prayer". as europeans, as defenders of democracy, as friends of tunisia, we have a moral duty to be part of the destiny of the tunisian people and to listen to their prayers in brotherly solidarity.
vp/hr mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the honourable member for his reply. castaldo and all the colleagues who have worked on this report which gives a very comprehensive overview of a country which is fundamental for europe and for our region. tunisia is not only the geographical centre of the mediterranean. as has been said, it is a symbol, first of all, of hope, of hope for unity, of democracy for the whole region, with many problems that we must not hide, but try to solve together. it is an example, it is a symbol of hope and democracy, firstly because the political class prefers negotiation to confrontation. the nobel prizes have recognised tunisian civil society as a key actor in national reconciliation and the very principle of national reconciliation is itself an element of hope and also a symbol of unity for the whole region. the recent history of the country is the most obvious denial of the alleged incompatibility between islam and democracy. for all these reasons, the success of democracy in tunisia is in the interests of european citizens, just as it is in the interests of tunisian citizens and the whole region. today, five years after the revolution, the country is going through a decisive phase. the draft resolution highlighted some of the main challenges that tunisia still faces, including the terrorist threat, the radicalisation of a very large part of its youth, a difficult economic situation and a difficult reform process. the report also proposes a long and good list of possible actions in support of tunisia asking to go beyond conventional measures. so i must say that this approach is exactly the same that we have taken in our global strategy, calling for a full use of all of all of our foreign policy instruments in a combined and coherent way. the report spans from security sector reform to development cooperation. it calls for greater engagement with local actors and with regional organisations, with the private sector as well as with civil society. it focuses on trade, but also on climate change and the fight against desertification, and it endorses the work that operation sophia is doing in the mediterranean, while calling for greater engagement of eu agencies in tunisia. so if you look at this list, it's clear that no national government no-one of us alone has the tools or the resources to implement such an ambitious plan alone. the plan is good. we need the european union to make it. so only together, as a true european union, can we aim this high. in fact the last year has already marked a very significant step in increasing cooperation between the european union and tunisia. in the wake of recent terrorist attacks we have invested eur 23 million to support tunisia's security sector reform. in particular we focused on securing tunisia's borders and in strengthening its intelligence services' capacity to prevent and fight against terrorism. at the beginning of 2016 tunisia became the first arab country to participate fully in our horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, offering new opportunities for tunisian researchers and academics. i could not overstate the importance of this of people-to-people contacts especially for our young people, in our relationship. the negotiations for the readmission and visa facilitation agreements, which will begin in exactly one month, also have the potential to strengthen the legal channels for mobility between tunisia and europe, as you just mentioned. less than a year ago we launched negotiations towards a deep and comprehensive trade agreement which could attract huge investments to tunisia and help restart growth. another round will take place this autumn. since the revolution we have doubled our financial assistance to tunisia and we hope to increase the total envelope by almost a third in 2017. so the trend is very clear. our partnership is growing stronger by the day. this trend will be confirmed in the joint communication we are presenting together myself and commissioner hahn. the text is under preparation and will soon be adopted, but i can anticipate that its priority lines will be very much in line with your report and the draft resolution. the communication will be a key instrument for us to engage our institutions european institutions and member states in the support to the tunisian transition. it will offer a mix of announced financial cooperation and non-financial measures, responding directly to the main axis of the tunisian five-year development plan. for this reason we will focus on good governance and the reform of public administration, on security as well as on tackling inequalities and unemployment, particularly among young graduates, because we know very well that is the place where the biggest problem lies. to do so we will keep engaging with tunisian institutions to support reforms. let me just mention the urgent adoption of the code of investment and the long-awaited five-year development plan. but we will also look at civil society, the private sector, mayors and local authorities, and especially - let me stress this once again - at tunisian youth, starting from the tunisian girls who played such a huge role in the revolution at that time and who are now seeing their dreams fade away. i believe that, thanks to our work, and to your work, with tunisia this parliament has directly witnessed the impact of our policy in the country. tunisia's foreign minister has recently defined the european union as the first sponsor of democracy and human rights in the country. so indeed our engagement there is making a difference in very concrete terms. it is one of those places where we and only we can make such a big difference. to all tunisians the european union means something good, and if we manage to do something good for the tunisians we are also going to do something good for the europeans. i believe that europe really needs to rediscover this huge potential, this huge transformational power, we have in some parts of our neighbourhood. and our region does indeed need a stronger europe as a champion of peace and democracy, starting from tunisia. as he rightly said: the stability of tunisia is our stability. the security of tunisia is our security. and i would add that tunisia's hope is also our hope.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i would first of all like to congratulate mr castaldo on the report we are debating and on the totally inclusive working method he has used, thanks to castaldo. i am particularly pleased that the high representative and commissioner hahn are here today, underlining the importance of this subject and helping to enrich our debate. tunisia is an example of good aid to the maghreb countries and can play a key role in the euro-mediterranean area. that is why we have emphasized strongly in the text the country's strategic role and our support for the completion of reforms and the implementation of the constitution. the report we are about to adopt offers important points for reflection: we condemn the acts of terrorism and express our strong solidarity with a country which has been repeatedly the victim of attacks which risk undermining the democratic process and have a serious impact on the internal economy of the region. the goal of terrorists is to take over the country and scare it into submission. the question of security is a priority and unfortunately a very difficult situation persists. we cannot forget the immigration issues. the reality on our doorstep is dramatic and it is clear that we cannot respond to this emergency alone. i believe that the european union should address all the countries bordering the mediterranean and that tunisia can play a decisive role. we also want to identify shared interests in the priority areas of intervention. the central role of tunisia and the considerable progress it has made must be appreciated and fully supported. it is necessary and urgent to invest in this country: every euro spent on tunisia is also a euro spent on the stability and security of our europe. in this context, the birth of the new executive on august 29th gives hope: a young government company determined to take the road of rebuilding and reviving the country. i believe that the strong approval of this report is the best way of conveying to the tunisian people that europe is with them.
i am convinced, as you are, madam president, that tunisia is a beacon of hope in the middle east and the southern mediterranean. i do not want to talk about a model, because to think that the tunisian experiment can be successfully replicated in other similar contexts is a risk today, because in the face of so many progress made, there is still a long way to go to prevent tunisia from remaining suspended between the desire for change - an epochal, finally structural and definitive change, with the eye on the future of the new generations - and the traditionalist impulses, suspended between a generation of people belonging to the last century and that 55% of the population who are under the age of thirty, suspended between a developed east and a decidedly backward west, and suspended between young people who go to the streets to demand more social justice and the 3 000 young people who have chosen the cause of isis. this report, which mr castaldo has drawn up very well, points the way and the objectives to be achieved and is a contribution by this parliament to the democratic and social stabilization of tunisia and, with it, of the region. it is to be hoped that the new government will seize these opportunities. we shall be going to tunisia next week and it will be an opportunity to convey this strong message of the european parliament's consent. we will also have the opportunity to attend the tunisian week in the european parliament in november. in essence, we want to work together with the tunisian authorities and the tunisian people because we are strongly interested in a modern and democratic tunisia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr panzeri has already mentioned, next week a delegation from the european parliament, which i attach great importance to, because it is a joint delegation between the european union and tunisia, together with the culture committee, will be visiting tunisia because we recognise its priority role for the future of the mediterranean, for neighbourhood policy, but also to support the democratic process and to relaunch the partnership in various fields, including culture, cultural heritage, education and the audiovisual sector. as the castaldo report points out, there is a need to develop joint economic and commercial actions, with the strengthening of human capital, civil society and youth training, as well as intercultural dialogue through relations in the broad cultural field and also stronger participation in the erasmus mundus programmes and also the former tempus programme which is being brought back to erasmus+. i would also like to point out that there are some very interesting projects under way at the moment, and i would like to see an organisational framework within the european cultural strategy, which we very much appreciated, and within the european cultural diplomacy, which the three commissioners have launched, to give more importance to and link these actions.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the speakers again, because their speeches have clearly shown that this report is the result of shared work, of participatory work, in which the different issues and priorities, the expression of the political groups, have merged, finding balance and harmony. tunisia has demonstrated with a small miracle that it is entirely possible, objective and tangible to make a compatibility between islam and democracy that many in the past have considered impossible. the european parliament can and must be constantly and fundamentally involved, as a passage in the report says, in supporting our tunisian counterpart, the assembly of people's representatives, which is still facing major technical and operational difficulties: we will be able to discuss this in the mission we will be carrying out from 19 september next week, when we will be on an equal footing with our tunisian parliamentary colleagues and friends to work on individual dossiers. this is the way: we must not confine ourselves to declarations, but must make concrete commitments, draw up specific plans on the individual issues we are dealing with. today, unfortunately, terrorism remains the number one issue on the agenda. on 29 august, three soldiers were killed on the border with algeria, in a region where borders are losing their meaning, where the mobility of certain groups really puts into question those states which want to close themselves off and do not want to cooperate from a regional point of view. algeria-tunisia cooperation has been a pillar in this respect and we hope to be able to extend it soon to the whole of the maghreb as soon as there is a stabilisation of libya. i would like to stress another very important point. the issue of human rights, many of you have raised it. we continue to bring them to the attention of the government, although we are aware that tunisia is certainly the first country in this respect. we are calling for a strong, concrete and total commitment to the abolition of the death penalty, because we are still sorry to see that this step has not yet been taken. tunisian civil society deserves our full and unwavering support, not only because it won the nobel prize, but because, before, during and after the revolution, it has proved to be the true beating heart of the country. we europeans should win the nobel prize for solidarity and also for foresight by supporting the miracle of the tunisian revolution.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr guillaume for his work, because it certainly took courage to tackle this issue with the determination he has shown. social dumping is nothing more or less than the picture of europe, a fragmented europe, where not even the 28 countries can be brought together in such a way that they can work together towards a project of prosperity, stability and growth for the citizens who are part of it, because that is exactly what it is. we are faced today with the problem of unfair competition in all sectors of production, in agriculture, in any sector where we have unfair competition. we have a fragmentation between the states of northern europe, those of eastern europe, those of southern europe. in fact, what we have managed to produce is a war between the poor, because it is the citizens who pay the price for these choices we make not to regulate clearly and effectively a regulation which must be implemented in all sectors. in the end, the people who pay the highest price are simply the citizens, who are the victims and become the commodity that countries sell to each other, between those who produce cheap, unprotected labor and those who exploit cheap, unprotected labor for profit. so there are no winners and losers, no one who is more right and who is more wrong, because on both sides the only ones who pay the cost of these policies are the citizens, who suffer the consequences. so i thank guillaume for all those indications that he wanted to insert: from the minimum wage, to the minimum income, to effective control policies: the labour inspectorates must work more and better, a register must be made.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must decide once and for all which side it will take: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. the free movement of people and the enormous differences in the cost of labour between the member states are a problem. i'm not saying that, but the entrepreneurs say it, the ones i, unlike you, meet every day. this is according to the report by conftrasporto, which states that social dumping in italy destroys over 30 000 jobs every year in the road transport sector alone. the problem is foreign temporary agencies offering cheap labour, putting our workers' rights and their jobs at risk. italian companies have much, much higher taxes and labour costs and therefore they will never be able to compete with those who do this unfair competition. is this the european union's project? is this the model of social injustice you want to impose? europe must rewrite the rules of the single market before the unease and anger of the citizens turn into a full-blown revolt. we must act now, now, before it's too late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for the work he is doing and also the rapporteurs. the term 'social dumping' is currently widely used but has no legally recognised and agreed definition. but it is well known that these illegal practices are increasing and are allowing unfair competition to develop. so there is an asymmetry between the reality of the internal market and the reality of social rights, which are very heterogeneous. rather than hiding behind protectionist policies, and thus taking unilateral decisions on social matters, i would suggest that the member states should do more to cooperate, to strengthen controls to prevent the use of abusive practices, such as false employment, which is very damaging to small and mediumsized enterprises in agriculture, the agri-food sector and also in the building sector.
in writing. the internal market is undoubtedly a great opportunity, but the lack of uniformity in workers' rights in the eu and of controls to prevent unfair competition have the effect of creating dangerous social dumping. competition is in fact set up by a race to lower the cost of labour and the very protections which should constitute inalienable rights are therefore lost. the report adopted by the european parliament attempts to put a stop to this situation, calling for, for example, improved controls and inspections resulting from the application of legislation to combat unfair competition. another interesting proposal is to draw up a sort of european blacklist of companies guilty of serious infringements, such as the use of underground work. the commission is also proposing the creation of a single digital social rights transfer document for every european worker. we have a duty to try to correct the distortions of the single market, and we will continue to work towards that end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is certainly an important agreement for the countries of southern africa and it is an agreement which needs broad support. but on the other hand, whenever agreements are made between the european union and other countries, agriculture always pays the price. i come from sicily, commissioner malmström, and sicily is a citrus area, an area to which i will invite you to come and i will invite you on 15 october, because you have just said in this house that this six-week extension does not overlap with european production. i shall invite you on 15 october to taste the fruit of our trees, precisely so that you can see that from 15 october to 30 november citrus fruits are produced in sicily, as in all the other european countries of southern europe. so there is a production overlap and the oranges that will be exported from south africa will be competing with those from my own territory. since higher prices are triggered earlier, with earlier production, it is clear that these late, off-season exports from the southern hemisphere will have a heavy impact on farmers' incomes. that is why i invite you to come to sicily to see what the real situation is and what the effects will be. the second aspect concerns the implementation of the agreements. so far five interceptions of greening-infected fruit have led to south africa blocking exports. last year, there were 70 wrong or improper interceptions, and no interruptions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in recent years, wildlife crime became one of the most serious threats to global biodiversity and people’s livelihoods. it also has a negative impact on the rule of law, due to its close links with corruption. the eu has an important role to play in addressing this issue as europe is currently a destination market for trafficking, in transit to other regions, as well as being, for some species, the source region for illegal trade. the eu is a part of the problem, but also a big part of the solution. i highly welcome the fact that some of the most ambitious proposals, for example strengthening capacities to combat illegal wildlife trade, or a global support programme to reduce demand for illegal products, come from eu member states. i personally think that another proposal that should emerge is to reinforce the global partnership against wildlife trafficking by using diplomatic tools and trade policy in relation with the key source transit and consumer countries. that should also become a key strategic objective for the eu at the upcoming cites meeting in johannesburg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker has given us a high-profile, serious, responsible and conscious speech. he has been clear on post-brexit, he has re-launched the investment plan, he has been clear on opening up on flexibility, he has never said the word austerity - and thank you - he has been clear on fighting tax evasion, he has put forward a credible programme for the next 12 months, which will be crucial for our citizens. we will support you loyally and our support will be conditional on our ability to put our commitments into practice, to be, as you said, builders. i find in your speech, finally, a capacity for reaction. after brexit, we heard so many loud statements, leaders saying "we are on the edge of the abyss", "europe is ending now", "we save it now or never", and then nothing. there are leaders who seem to be sleepwalking in the middle of the night, and then there is theresa may, who, faced with a clear, albeit sad for us, result of the referendum, three months later, continues to hold the union in check - if it were not so tragic, it would be ridiculous! this commission has maintained a profile of economic policy which we socialists like, but which still gives the last of the austerity ultras the headache of 'take some antihistamines': minister schäuble and his friends. i say again, mr weber, we shall never go along with this line of blind rigorism. we are a progressive force, an alternative to the conservatives. but we know that these are extraordinary times, we must work together, we want to work together with all the pro-european forces in this parliament and work on serious political priorities also to defeat the nationalism masked by so-called patriotic democracy. jean-claude juncker has given positive answers to our priorities, to many of our priorities. i want to reiterate: first of all, sustainable growth, work, the moralization of european democracy, solidarity - four key words for our values, consistent with our values, with our socialist principles: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also set up a number of working groups to examine the impact of the information provided by the commission on the environment. we must have a financial framework that is appropriate to the challenges: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe must not be the harsh judge who punishes, who sanctions. europe must understand, support and unite, it must be a friend of its citizens, a defender of the well-being of the planet. that is what this great, immense leader called jacques delors has reminded us. we must fight for the moralization of economic life, the fight against tax evasion, we are waiting for the directive. you said 'tax must be paid where profits are made', but how can the baker in strasbourg pay more tax than the american multinational! we want the blacklist of tax havens, the rules on whistleblowers, a stricter code of conduct on commissioners or presidents of the european commission, and then the social agenda thanks for the posting of workers. we want a child guarantee in addition to the youth guarantee. we want to fight dumping, and i say to my friends in the people's party: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the european union. let us fight together against this social injustice! and then there is the directive on precarious work and the european unemployment insurance. i'll conclude with immigration and foreign policy: federica mogherini has earned the right to be the real foreign minister of the european union. the common defence policies are good, the migration compact with africa is good - that is a good, revolutionary choice, president juncker! - and the unaccompanied migrants and humanitarian corridors, intelligence cooperation, schengen for bulgaria, romania and croatia are good. mr president, this commission has the intelligence, the authority and the prestige to lead a new phase. we have an invisible, almost intangible danger: this danger is called fear. but a world forged on fear is a world worse than the one we live in. it is not right to let our children and ourselves and those who will come after us live, and to overcome fear we need political intelligence, determination and a great european heart. (loud applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, president juncker, you said that the european union lacked europe and lacked the union. you should be even more convinced today. you spoke to us today of an ideal europe, of solidarity, of a response to the needs of the citizens. it is a pity that this is still too far from the present model of europe. european policies have proved effective in rescuing banks, but not as effective in managing migration flows or in ensuring economic growth for all member states. the european union is now perceived as a european power system where technocrats, lobbies and wealthy elites influence decision-making processes and, in this way, impose austerity measures, undermine the role of popular sovereignty and democracy, dismantle the achievements of the welfare state, promote wild liberalization and deregulation of the labour market, create poverty and ultimately increase social inequalities. if the social and economic progress of present and future generations, the rights of individuals and the common good do not become the absolute protagonists of european policies, the people will continue to say no to this european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another farce, yet another word in the wind: the european union of peace has lost 3 000 people in the mediterranean sea, 26 million people are unemployed and, for some reason, the enemies of europe are the populists and the nationalists. you should see a good doctor, but a good specialist! the normal people outside this building believe that the danger to 500 million europeans is islamic terrorism, which you are helping and financing: with every boat that arrives in italy, millions of euros end up in the pockets of nationalists and islamic terrorists. you're feeding him with the crazy sanctions against russia, which are costing billions of euros and millions of jobs; you're financing it by giving money to turkey, which in return gives us nothing; you are fuelling popular anger by taking it out on legitimately elected governments, such as the hungarian and the polish, for whom i have every respect. you are keeping alive a wrong and criminal currency like the euro. i think that this is the last speech of any kind that you, mr president, will make in this house, because fortunately the people are tired of it and are waking up to the populism and nationalism of the day.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, your speech was clear and most appropriate at this historic moment: his words give us a glimpse of light after a long crisis. we are coming from a no-no to our project of union by a major state, from which we expect and demand responsibility. we see our citizens' distrust of this europe growing day by day. as you yourself have said, we are asking you and the commission, but above all the council, to make a decisive leap forward: it requires ambition, concreteness and clear objectives. some priorities require urgent action: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. on safety, a clear decision is needed: the european border police is a good thing, and it must be further strengthened, mr president, but we need our own army and, above all, a genuinely common foreign policy. this action is necessary only and exclusively to continue to maintain many years of peace, which are the main result of 60 years of our being together. unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, has exceeded 20% in europe and in my country it is close to 40%. the investment plan is beginning to bear fruit: well, the reinforcements you announced, let's triple them, president! we are stimulating investment, thereby redistributing growth and employment. the protection of savings must be guaranteed. do we think that the bail-in really protected all citizens, or just the state budget? europe, as you said, needs concrete action and quick answers to give to the citizens: no forward races, no directors, no threesomes are needed. president juncker, commissioners, this is the time to act with strength and determination.
madam president, i would like to repeat the words of our leader, mr manfred weber, who said: 'stop your cheap populism against brussels.' it is our duty as politicians to deliver positive news about the european union and that, as mr juncker said, i want to thank for this speech. let us not only speak engagedly here in strasbourg, but let us speak engagedly in national parliaments, and thank you for that. we all have to help. the fact is that europe may be a little shaken by brexit, but it's certainly not threatened. so we have to restore trust and the european union cannot do it alone. i am in favour of a common foreign and european policy, but it cannot be solved only in berlin, only in paris, it must be solved in madrid and in lisbon and in athens, but also in zagreb. i want to remind you that our colleague andrej plenkovic will become the new croatian prime minister and i am sure that croatia will also contribute to the new common foreign policy of the european union and i think that as a new member we will be actively helping and just one more sentence. thank you also for wanting workers to be paid the same at the same place and have the same pay. this is our european solidarity. in this way we will demonstrate that we respect the principle of european solidarity which we so much advocate and which you have said is mentioned 16 times in the european treaties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we who are the protagonists of europe's present-day life are certainly not heroes, and perhaps we have a task that is greater than ours, but our choices and our strength will be the basis of a historic judgment. in a few years time it will be seen whether europe, at the height of its most serious crisis, has been able to be reborn or whether it has inexorably embarked on the path of dissolution. president juncker has done very well in reminding us of this. our responsibility today is not linked to the daily news, to our political life, but to this appointment, to this passage with history. we must therefore say no to any kind of waiting, mr president and president-in-office of the council, to brexit and to that change of course which is indispensable for many european policies, starting with the economic one, where it is now clear that the pact is not the cornerstone, but the cornerstone will be a genuine expansionary budgetary policy, a fiscal capacity of the union. and let me say - to mr weber in particular, but also to others - that when the pact is applied intelligently, it does not lose credibility, but rather increases it in the eyes of the citizens. i would just like to make two points, mr weber, and i will put them in headings: tax equity the first step towards a fierce fight against tax evasion and avoidance and social equity. there's a proposal on the table, the unemployment insurance proposal, put forward by padoan: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the rights of the weakest citizens, but that we should be concerned about the rights of the weakest citizens. so let us adopt this padoan proposal, it is feasible, it is financially viable and let us make it a star of european politics.
president of the european commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to thank you very much for the debate and for the positive things that have been said about the commission. i did not overhear the negative, but for reasons of time i cannot now deal with all the points raised, because arguments have not always been made. i should like to thank the large majority of the major groups in this house for their support. i would just like to say a word about turkey, perhaps, because it was not possible to deal with this in my speech. we are still in intensive negotiations with turkey on the visa issue. i would like to make it clear once again that visa liberalisation will only be possible if turkey meets all the conditions mentioned above, but i would urge us to be a little more patient on some points, because the most difficult issues have to be solved in turkey. i am convinced that this will happen, but it will not necessarily be possible within the time frame envisaged. but without a reform of the anti-terrorism law, for example, it will not be possible to seriously consider visa liberalisation for turkey on a specific date. i am glad that almost all of them have spoken out in favour of strengthening social rights in the european union. they know what consultation procedures are currently being carried out on the fundamental pillar of social workers' rights. we shall await the outcome of these consultations and then make our proposals. i am also grateful that our call for the european investment fund to be doubled has met with broad support. the council and parliament must do their part here so that we can reach decisions on this. the same applies to everything that has to do with the digital agenda. we must also work closely together there. i would like to thank you again, mr president, for the debate. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am genuinely disappointed when i hear mr farage and mrs le pen say: 'now help us to get brexit done'. they were determined, convinced, tenacious in calling for brexit and ms le pen for frexit and then they are not able to and they take it out on the devil, mr verhofstadt, but the devils are you! you are the devils because you have deceived the british people with your lies, you have led them to a decision which will harm the british people and which will harm the european union. question number two: poverty, income redistribution, inequality, social dumping and sustainable growth are our priorities. thank you, mr juncker, because these are also the priorities of the european commission. thirdly: you introduced the capital market union this morning. we now have the market union, the banking union, to be completed, the capital market union. we must work towards political union, the political union of europe. this is a big challenge. you 're going to say , "but pittella is dreaming". we must dream to achieve the best things, and we must have the strength that comes from being united: the european commission and the european parliament, as mr delors said, are hand in hand. if we stand together, we can win even if we have to fulfill our dreams!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to remind you that the nobel peace prize winner, shimon peres, suffered a stroke yesterday and is now fighting for his life. i think it is right that the european parliament should send its thoughts in the hope that it may regain its strength and vitality.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again for the excellent joint work they have done on this report, which has had the ambition of giving a strong boost to cooperation and partnership with what is perhaps our most important partner on the southern shore today and the one most consistent with our values and principles. but the greatest thanks must surely go to the tunisian people and the extraordinary efforts of their civil society over the years. they have certainly earned the nobel peace prize, we have the task of earning the nobel prize for solidarity and foresight.
in writing. ‒ eu-switzerland relations are very important for both sides, especially from an economic and political point of view. following the accession of croatia to the eu, as a result of the enlargement of the internal market, the importance of the eu-switzerland partnership has increased even more. i also consider that about 1 million eu citizens live in switzerland and that a very large number of them cross the border daily for work, so i have decided to vote in favour of guaranteeing the free movement of people between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the eu is switzerland's main trading partner and the union's fourth largest economic partner. the close relations have developed systematically since the refusal of the confederation to join the european economic area in 1992, a factor which has led the two sides to conclude a series of bilateral agreements on specific issues. the agreement on the free movement of persons, signed as part of the first set of bilateral agreements, gave citizens of the two parties the right to enter, live and work in their respective territories, removing most restrictions. however, in order to be entitled to these rights, you must have a contract of employment or service or sufficient financial means and adequate insurance. the jazłowiecka report, which i supported with my vote today, approves the conclusion of a protocol amending the original agreement and allowing croatia to accede to it. this is a technical measure that will allow the balkan country, which joined the eu in july 2013, to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by its entry into the community.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2014, switzerland approved by referendum the popular initiative "against mass immigration", which states that switzerland can manage immigration autonomously. the eu reacted to the swiss referendum by suspending negotiations with switzerland on many agreements and threatening to cut switzerland's substantial funding as a participant in european research programmes. the eu is once again proving to be a profoundly undemocratic construct, which in no way respects the will of the people, even if it is officially expressed through a regular popular referendum. for these reasons i do not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, now fully part of the european union, should also participate in the trade agreements that the eu concludes with foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that switzerland is a partner of fundamental economic and political importance to the eu, not only because of its geographical and cultural proximity. the eu has closer ties with switzerland than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea), thanks to the large number of agreements it has concluded with switzerland. switzerland is europe's fourth largest economic partner, after the united states, china and russia. over 1 million european citizens live in switzerland and more than 230 000 europeans cross the border for work every day. the number of swiss nationals residing in europe is about 430,000. with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, the internal market has expanded considerably. switzerland, like the eu member states, benefits considerably from the enlargement of the european internal market. both croatia and switzerland will therefore, with the signing of the current protocol iii, benefit from a wider internal market where freedom of movement plays a very important role.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, parliament gives the green light to the integration of croatia into the protocol on the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons. this is a practical act which is necessary because of accession. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union, with its member states, is switzerland's most important partner because of its geographical and cultural proximity; the union has closer ties with switzerland than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea). with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, the internal market has further expanded to almost 505 million people and has become even more important for our swiss partner. protocol iii, which was initiated on croatia's accession to the union, opens the door to croatian citizens, as well as swiss citizens, by extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. i am convinced that both croatia and switzerland can only benefit politically and economically from this opening up. freedom of movement is the cornerstone of citizenship of the union, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of extending the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. in view of recent developments, and given the uncertainty caused by the swiss confederation's february 2014 'against mass migration' referendum, i hope that the successful outcome of protocol iii will help to create a renewed spirit of cooperation between the european union and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above-mentioned protocol because it guarantees both the swiss confederation and croatia a gradual adaptation to the agreement on the free movement of persons, through the introduction of limits on access to the labour market. switzerland will be able to maintain the limits which are still in force for employees and selfemployed persons with residence permits of four months to one year and of a duration equal to or greater than one year, restrictions which may also be applied by croatia. the restrictions on access are determined for each of the seven years of application of the protocol, will be progressive so as to gradually open up the labour market and both countries will have the right to maintain controls on working and pay conditions for nationals of the other contracting party.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the agreement because i believe that the eu and switzerland have stable political and economic relations and are linked by geographical and cultural proximity. over one million eu citizens live in switzerland and over 230 000 cross the border every day to go to work. an important point of the agreement is the establishment between the union and switzerland of rules equivalent to those between the member states on access to employment and social security.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the eu is once again proving to be undemocratic and not respecting the will of the people.
in writing. the protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons, which officially entered into force in 2002, has been extended to new member states. with the accession of bulgaria and romania in january 2007, the agreement was amended once again and therefore entered into force as protocol ii. the eu and switzerland have ratified protocol iii, which follows protocol ii and provides for an extension of the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. under this procedure, the right to enter, live and work in the territory of the contracting parties is granted to their nationals, with most restrictions being lifted. the aim of the agreement is to make community rules equivalent within the countries, but also to facilitate the provision of services in them. therefore, i approve the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. – as the eu’s newest member, i see no reason for the republic of croatia not being able to enjoy the same benefits as those of its european counterparts, especially the free movement of persons. therefore, i voted in favour on the protocol between the european community and its member states and the swiss confederation regarding the participation of croatia as a contracting party, as both the eu and switzerland will continue benefiting from free movement. certainly, switzerland has the right to prioritise employment opportunities for its citizens but it is also in the country’s benefit to open gradually its labour market to croatian workers and likewise with swiss workers in croatia.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i can only thank the rapporteur for her work and agree on the final text. the free movement of persons remains a fundamental pillar of the union and we must all fight to protect this right.
in writing. ‒ switzerland is the eu's fourth largest economic partner, just behind the us, china and russia, while the eu is switzerland's largest trading partner. over 1 million eu citizens live in switzerland and over 230 000 cross the border to work every day. there are about 430 000 swiss nationals living in the eu. in 2000, the agreement on the free movement of persons between switzerland and the eu-15 was signed. as a result, the agreement was extended to the 10 new member states (protocol i to the agreement entered into force in april 2006). with croatia, the european union in 2013, protocol iii was initiated and after a series of actions between the eu and switzerland, on 4 march 2016, the two parties signed protocol iii extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. this protocol iii shall be subject to the assent of the european parliament. i voted in favour of this protocol because i believe that the free movement of persons, although adequately supported by measures relating to security and public order, is one of the most important achievements of the first 60 years of european integration.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to endorse the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs and at the same time repeals ec decision 2003/174. as the council and the european commission have formally committed themselves to always inviting a representative of the committee on employment and social affairs to participate in trilateral summits, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has necessitated an update in the organisation of the trilateral social summit for growth and employment. the council submitted its proposal in february 2014 and forwarded it to parliament before the adoption of a separate resolution by parliament in april 2014. after having asked the commission and the council to include a provision, which was accepted, allowing the chairman of the ep's committee on employment and social affairs to participate in the trilateral summit, i decided to vote in favour of the sógor report. the new measures will ensure that parliament will be able to attend the summit on a regular basis, thanks to the participation of the chairman of the empl committee.
in writing. ‒ the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs is part of the european semester process, which is a symbol of the total lack of democracy and transparency in eu governance. the amendments proposed by the council will not make this instrument any more democratic, since it serves only to validate the commission's unilateral decisions in a self-referential manner. i therefore voted against the measure.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and employment (tse) was established by council decision 2003/174/ec of 6 march 2003, which formalised the practice, established since 1997, of holding informal high-level meetings in the framework of the european employment strategy and, subsequently, the lisbon strategy. the institutions participating in the social summit need to do more and act in a more integrated way to ensure growth and jobs in the european union. growth and employment must be of quality, because there is no way of maintaining european welfare and democracy by competing downwards, with the devaluation of wages and in a deflationary context. we need to support sustainable growth, based on innovation, solidarity and inclusiveness: innovation, high quality, efficient services and high-quality products are what make the european market strong. this is a fact which we must not forget, especially in times of economic difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu council decision rewriting the functioning of the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs to allow for better consultation between the european council, the eu council, the commission and the social partners and to enable the latter to contribute, in the social dialogue, to the various aspects of the union's strategy for growth and jobs. since its establishment (in accordance with decision 2003/174/ec repealed by that decision), the summit has played a key role in high-level consultation, contributing positively to the development of the social dialogue at union level under the lisbon strategy for the period 2000-2010 and under the europe 2020 strategy. the tasks and composition of the summit have been adapted to take account of the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, in particular the creation of the function of president of the european council under article 15 teu.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report gives its approval to the draft council decision on the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs. the position in favour of approval was supported by the council's commitment to invite a representative of the ep (and in particular of the committee on employment and social affairs) to each meeting of the summit. i voted in favour without delay.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs (tsg) was established in 2003 to institutionalise the practice of holding informal high-level meetings between the heads of the european institutions and representatives of business and labour in the context of the european employment strategy. i think, however, that an agreement between the european institutions is appropriate to allow the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) to participate in these summits. i thought i should vote in favour of the council's decision because i believe that the way in which the summit is to be held needs to be updated to take account of the institutional changes brought about by the lisbon treaty. i hope that the new format of the summit will make a positive contribution to the development of social dialogue at european union level for the benefit of european citizens and workers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs as it allows for a simultaneous and continuous dialogue between the european council, the commission, parliament and the social partners. the current socioeconomic situation in the union as a whole is as fraught as it has been for years and it is therefore essential to provide for methods of concertation between those parties who must ensure an optimal solution for the citizens. it is in this perspective of social dialogue that new tactics and strategies can be found to ensure steady growth and full employment. all too often, the european decision-making bodies have been so far removed from the social partners that they have been in conflict or have reached a deadlock, thus contributing to the growth of anti-european sentiment. the legitimate euroscepticism that has emerged, however, has only complicated the work tables by preventing quick and effective deliberations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the trilateral social summit is a key opportunity to involve the social partners in the european semester process. i am convinced that the widest possible representativeness and the legitimacy and effectiveness of consultation of the social partners are of the utmost importance and that only in this way can the social dialogue in the european union gain new impetus. i believe it is important to strengthen and exploit the synergies and complementarities between the various bodies in order to coordinate the economic and social strategies of the european union in a more coherent way.
in writing. ‒ i am against the council's proposed changes as they will not increase democracy.
in writing. the legal framework for the triennial social summit for growth and jobs (ssg) ensures joint action between the european council, parliament, the commission and the social partners. the participants exchanged views on three issues in particular: experiences in implementing the country-specific recommendations; the impact of the migration and refugee crisis on the labour market; and the challenges of digitalisation. these are issues of even greater central importance today than they were in the past, given the urgent need to promote and sustain growth and employment throughout the eu.
in writing. – the european union has reached impressive economic, political, and social levels but different reports suggest that there is still much more we need to accomplish in order to be an even stronger union. for the european union’s progress, we need to figure out the uncertainties and fill the gaps so we can move on. i voted in favour of the tripartite social summit for growth and employment. i agree with president juncker’s views that highlight the importance of advancing towards a fair and truly european labour market through social dialogue and the deepening of economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i agree with my group in supporting and voting in favour of the text presented.
in writing. ‒ the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs ensures continuous consultation between the european council, the council, the commission and the social partners. the summit enables the european social partners to contribute, through social dialogue, to the various aspects of the union's strategy for growth and jobs. the social dialogue is a pillar of the social market economy which the epp wants to help bring about in europe. i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the trilateral social summit for growth and jobs. in particular, the report establishes the trilateral social summit, a forum for discussion between the european union (eu) institutions and representatives of employers and workers. the summit is part of the inter-professional dialogue and is intended to provide a continuous exchange between the social partners and the eu institutions and to ensure that the social partners contribute to the economic and social strategy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the overall objective of the directive is to provide a coherent and uniform framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels, with emphasis on rationalising the use of resources for the development of technical standards and their adaptation to scientific and technical progress through the use of standards drawn up by international organisations. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the belet report approving the council's position at first reading on the requirements for inland waterway vessels. this is a technical measure which aims at the uniform application of technical requirements in order to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation, taking into account the standards established by international organisations such as the european committee for the elaboration of standards for inland navigation (cesni). the text also calls for a periodic review of the directive every three years, with the aim of assessing the mechanisms for cooperation with the international organisations involved.
in writing. ‒ although the text is partially shared, there are still some unclear passages which could open the door to criticism. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ at first reading, parliament supported the need for uniform application of the common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union in order to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport. we in this house have also expressed our support for the rapid adaptation of the rules to scientific and technical progress, taking into account the rules drawn up by international organizations, in particular by the european committee for the elaboration of rules for inland navigation (cesni), to be set up under the aegis of the central commission for navigation on the rhine. parliament also called for a periodic review of the directive every three years to assess the cooperation mechanisms with the international organisations involved. today, confirming these demands, we ask that the proposal be approved in a manner consistent with the negotiated agreement reached between parliament and council on 17 march 2016 as approved by the tran committee on 7 april last.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i consider it of great importance that the common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union should be applied uniformly. my choice was therefore based on the desire to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation. the aim of the directive is to provide a coherent and uniform framework to ensure a common safety standard for inland waterway vessels. of particular importance is the rationalization of the use of resources for the development of technical standards and the adaptation to the considerable scientific and technical progress made, also in relation to standards prepared by the various international organizations. in this respect, the european committee for the elaboration of standards for inland navigation (cesni) plays an important role. cesni is an international body, but it comprises only the member states and switzerland. it is therefore essential to achieve the adaptation of technical standards by means of delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation mechanism with the european committee for the elaboration of standards for inland navigation (cesni) will be reviewed within five years. that is why i voted in favour of mr belet's report.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union, we supported, at first reading, the uniform application of the common technical requirements with a view to harmonising and ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport. we also called for a rationalisation of the use of resources for the development of technical standards and their adaptation to scientific and technical progress by using standards already established by international organisations such as cesni. we have also called for a periodic review of the directive every three years, with a view to assessing the mechanisms for cooperation with the international organisations involved. the european parliament, by voting today, reaffirms its institutional prerogatives in the field of the adaptation of technical standards in the inland waterway sector. i therefore voted in favour of this because i believe it is in the interests of the citizens of the european union that no new technical standards are introduced without the scrutiny of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels presented by mr belet. i believe that the adoption of the directive is a positive development in the shipping sector and represents a step forward in the integration of the technical standards required by the european union. the issuing of certificates for navigation on the basis of compliance with technical requirements as provided for in article 22 of the directive will ensure a new level of safety and efficiency, as well as the achievement of a uniform set of technical requirements within the eu states, thanks to the work carried out by cesni.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, as i am in favour of a uniform application of maritime technical requirements throughout the european union, aimed at ensuring an increasingly high level of safety and efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i support this recommendation because it offers a coherent and uniform framework to rationalise the use of resources and ensure a high level of safety for inland waterway vessels. structured investment in such shipping also allows for better collaboration between member countries and trade that promotes economic growth. these reasons have led me to vote in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. i support the european parliament's decision to provide a coherent and uniform framework for a level of safety for inland waterway vessels. as regards the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, they are laid down in directive 2006/87/ec, which lays down the conditions for the issue of certificates permitting navigation in the internal waters of the union, including the rhine. it shall also ensure that such certificates are issued on the basis of technical requirements which ensure a level of safety that is at all times adequate. parliament also called for a periodic review of the directive every three years to assess the cooperation mechanisms with the international organisations involved.
in writing. ‒ i can only express my appreciation and thanks to mr ivo belet for the work he has done and for the excellent contribution he has made to the preparation of this final document.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this agreement, i voted against the agreement between the european union and certain countries in southern africa, including south africa, because it would be yet another blow to our agriculture, to the agriculture of europe, and especially of southern europe, to our citrus fruits, to the oranges - i must mention it - of my region, which have the healthiest organoleptic qualities. i'm against it because i want to say enough: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say enough of agriculture as a commodity in the european trade policy and enough of the monopoly and the hand-wringing of the commission, which makes agreements without any assessment of the impact of these agreements on local markets, which is quite different from considering the general market of the european union. if the european commission does not do this, our farmers will soon be the ones to mourn the damage caused by the wrong choices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues from the five star movement and i voted against this agreement, an agreement which the commission claims is an agreement to help africa, but which is in fact a full-fledged trade agreement, which will open up 86% of the african market, an opening which is unsustainable for africa, which will result in the loss of eur 3.5 billion in unpaid customs duties and at the same time the first consequence for us will be an invasion of south african oranges at the very time of our harvest. furthermore, there is no chapter on sustainable development in the treaty and civil society has not been included in the wording. this agreement could easily increase regional disintegration by pitting south africa against smaller states. finally, we are forcing our partners to march in force towards ratification in october, without their parliamentarians having had time to read the text they are signing. if they do not sign, we will also punish them with prohibitive customs duties - a very good example of democracy, but that is what we have always done with africa.
in writing. ‒ on 12 june 2002, the council authorised the opening of epa negotiations with the group of botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland (blmns) and south africa (sadc). the agreement provides asymmetric market access for the eu and sadc countries from a trade point of view, allowing them to protect sensitive sectors from liberalisation; the commission has also adopted a number of safeguard measures and a clause to protect the new industry. while i recognize the need to promote the economic and industrial development of these countries, i do not approve of such an asymmetry between the two markets, especially in a context of severe crisis for the european economy, which would harm eu operators. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ my commitment to the european parliament has always been in favour of my country's farmers. the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc countries, which includes 15 african countries including south africa, will severely penalise our producers, especially in the citrus sector. as has already happened, this european union is proving incapable of protecting the economies of the member states by opening the door to products of dubious quality, often harmful to the health of our citizens, and by abolishing the duties that protect the agriculture of our territories. for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc epa states, of the other part. in 2000, the cotonou agreement called for fundamental changes in the continuing non-reciprocal trade preferences that had governed, for many years, the economic and political relations between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states and the european union. the impact of these trade preferences has been unsatisfactory and in some cases even incompatible with wto rules. the european union and the acp countries had agreed to negotiate reciprocal trade agreements known as economic partnership agreements (epas). these agreements can be a tool for development and sustainable economic growth, but supporting the economies of the sadc states which are members of the epa (botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland) would be to the disadvantage of the mediterranean countries of europe, especially the agriculture of southern italy which would suffer a further blow.
in writing. ‒ on 12 june 2002, the council authorised the opening of epa (partnership agreement) negotiations with the countries of the sadc region (southern african countries). from a trade point of view, the agreement provides asymmetrical market access to the eu and sadc countries, allowing the latter to protect their sensitive sectors from liberalisation. but this puts at risk some european productions - particularly those in the mediterranean - and, moreover, the method used by the commission to conclude this type of agreement does not guarantee a democratic process for our african partners and imposes an unequal distribution of wealth and economic development among the different states of the region, which have different characteristics and growth rates. i therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i strongly reject the economic partnership agreement between the commission and the countries of the southern african development community. while i cannot deny that a first fundamental step has been taken towards the advancement of trade relations with sub-saharan africa, i believe that the promotion of local products in order to strengthen their competitiveness is the essence of my work. i cannot deny that the question that perplexes me most is the opening up of our market to their oranges: i would not be doing my duty if i did not protect our excellences. and it is not always right to sacrifice agri-food products on the altar of free trade and the export of technology. i hope that in the future it will be possible to reach agreements which will be beneficial to both sides and thus seize the opportunity to promote the progressive integration of african states into the world economy, also contributing to the eradication of poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the trade agreement signed between the european union and the southern african development community. the objectives of the agreement are to contribute to poverty reduction, to promote regional integration and to the gradual integration of african countries into the global economy. the adoption of this economic agreement is a major step forward in trade relations with africa, because for the first time it is not based on a relationship of unilateral concessions, but on a genuine agreement on a regional basis, which is intended to involve other countries in the future. moreover, although this regional agreement is mainly geared towards developing trade relations in terms of trade in goods and sustainable development cooperation, it also leaves room for negotiation of further provisions on services, investment and intellectual property. the trade agreement is therefore part of a broader strategy which the sadc states are called upon to implement through national policies that facilitate trade, development and structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between the european union, its member states and the southern african development community (sadc) states acceding to the epa marks an important step forward in trade relations and development cooperation with africa. in fact, despite the relatively positive data on african growth, poverty, inequality and instability still plague the african continent and are affected by international trade relations to the detriment of local economies. the economic partnership agreement introduces a chapter dedicated to regional integration and safeguarding sustainable trade and development in the sadc states. for example, the eu has shown flexibility, allowing sadc epa states to maintain existing export duties, to apply new export taxes in the event of specific revenue needs, and to exclude sensitive products from liberalisation, to promote nascent industries and to protect the environment. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. in addition, my vote in favour is intended to maintain a high level of attention to the monitoring of the plant health risk from the cbs plant disease in agriculture in the sadc countries, which has so far been controlled by increased surveillance of orange consignments from the african region.
in writing. ‒ the european union-southern african development community (sadc) partnership agreement, together with the agreements with the west and southern africa region on which the european parliament will shortly be taking a decision, are an important signal of the european union's renewed interest in the african continent. trade relations with these macro-regions are all the more significant at a time when one of the major challenges for the european member states is the considerable increase in migration flows from this continent. in this context, although the agreement provides for an asymmetrical opening of the two markets to the benefit of the sadc countries, its structure raises some concerns in the field of human rights and sustainable development. in particular, i am against the fact that a monitoring mechanism has not been introduced to ensure and verify the effective respect of the human rights clauses contained in the agreement; the commission has also proposed a new instrument which would ensure greater coherence between trade policy and european development cooperation policy. i have therefore abstained on the decision of parliament to give its assent to the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the sadc states.
in writing. - i vote against: once again our producers are being penalized.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this recommendation report by mr lambsdorff. this agreement, which is a trade and development partnership between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union, aims to support trade, regional integration and to foster sustainable development. these are very important issues and it is something that we should support, but it is also important that the report underlines that domestic development policies and structural reforms are needed in these countries and that this agreement will not do anything in a vacuum. for this reason, i also supported the call from my colleagues that it is important that we strengthen the monitoring process to this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the southern african development community (sadc) countries required very careful reflection on the assessment of the real benefits and mutual benefits between the parties. the agreement will allow botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland free access to the european market through the elimination of quotas and customs duties, while south africa, already a bilateral partner of the eu, will see the freedom of access of its goods and agricultural products facilitated. after the tunisian oil disaster, we are seeing yet another blow to our farms and in particular to the small producers of citrus fruit in mediterranean europe, who are already subject to unfair competition from countries such as morocco and who will now have to endure the invasion of the european market by tons of cheap oranges without adequate plant health controls. my vote against the text is therefore also a firm no to the policy of selling off our agriculture without any proper impact assessment. as regards goods from the eu destined for south africa, i think that a good agreement could have taken into account, in addition to wine and foodstuffs, our olive oil with a protected designation of origin, which is not mentioned in the text.
in writing. the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the 15 sadc epa states is a regional economic development agreement that includes not only trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development provisions, but also provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and better conditions for sustainable development. however, i believe that this scenario could have serious consequences for certain strategic production sectors in our country. the agreement provides for the extension of the period of preferential tariff treatment for citrus fruit from 1 june to 16 october, when customs duties are reintroduced at the rate of 16%, and now extends it until 30 november, with a planned reduction of 1.8% per year, until total exemption by 2025. a further month and a half during which the production of orange blondes is likely to suffer from aggressive and harmful competition. for these reasons, and because i consider that agreement to be disadvantageous for southern europe and for mediterranean agriculture, i voted against mr lambsdorff's report.
in writing. – the european union holds many functions but economics is the main one. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu and the sadc epa states to set an economic partnership, for such activity shows signs of the following: bringing fundamental positive change, contributing to sustainable economic growth, and strengthening intra-regional trade and integration. trade has proven to be an effective tool in enhancing employment opportunities, and, therefore, the african countries that form part of the sadc epa could really benefit their economies and gdps by deepening economic ties with europe. however, there is a need to emphasise the importance of trade by the african states in a sustainable manner that can comply with eu regulations.
in writing. ‒ the reason why i decided to speak out against this agreement is that i wish to express my opposition to a method which is increasingly being used as a background for the negotiation of trade agreements with third countries. while recognising the need to establish trade links with developing countries, i believe it is unacceptable that the agri-food sector, the backbone of the mediterranean economy, should be sacrificed in the definition of such partnerships.
in writing. ‒ let me state my firm conviction (at this very particular historical moment) that the only way forward for the eu is through openness and partnership towards and with third countries, not through closure by the construction of physical or regulatory barriers. i therefore welcome the report and i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was asked to give its assent to the economic partnership agreement with the southern african development community, which comprises six countries: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa. i voted against the approval of this agreement because i believe that, for the umpteenth time, the italian citrus fruit sector is being heavily penalized. it is enough to think that, although south african oranges are already allowed free access throughout the country from 1 june to 15 october, the entry of oranges into south africa would be delayed until 30 november if this agreement were to be introduced. moreover, with a gradual reduction in taxation, until complete abolition in 2025. the rejection of this partnership agreement does not mean that europe should be forced to adopt an autarchic trade model, but rather that it should be emphasized that measures must be taken to promote local products in order to strengthen their competitiveness. the protection of european products has been sacrificed to a view of international trade which does not include the principle of protecting southern european products, as has already happened with tunisian oil and moroccan tomatoes.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to increase women's participation in the labour market by making the current eu legal and policy framework more modern and adapted to today's labour market, to enable people with children or other dependent family members to better balance family and working life, to allow for greater sharing of caring responsibilities between women and men and to strengthen gender equality in the labour market. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector. the convention, adopted in 2007 by the international labour organisation (ilo), has set out a set of rules covering issues essential to ensuring decent working and living conditions on board fishing vessels: minimum age for work, rest periods, rules on accommodation, food and wages; the commission has also proposed that the convention be amended to include the following matters: to date, only two countries have ratified the convention: france and estonia. the resolution adopted welcomes the agreement between the social partners and the commission implementing the ilo convention on labour in the fisheries sector and calls for the rapid adoption and implementation of the corresponding council directive. the approach of the text, which provides for the definition of minimum community standards, is the best because it guarantees the freedom of the member states and the social partners to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the sector concerned in the individual countries.
in writing. ‒ although the text is largely balanced and acceptable, there are still some passages which could open up the door to future criticism, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries sector is a sector that has grown considerably, and this growth has also had a significant impact on working conditions and safety at work. workers in the fisheries sector often face difficult working conditions. it is therefore necessary to ensure adequate protection of fishermen at global level, taking into account the particular characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of accidents and the risk of illness, and the lack of a clear distinction between working hours, rest and leisure time. the adoption of these international labour standards for what is one of the most dangerous professions in the world is extremely important to protect workers and provide them with decent working conditions. the objectives of this agreement are therefore to protect the living and working conditions, health and safety of workers in the maritime fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement concluded by the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives in the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national fisheries organisation organisations of the european union (europêche) on 21 may 2012, as amended on 8 may 2013, on the implementation of the international labour organisation's 2007 fisheries labour convention. the european union and its member states should play a leading role in promoting adequate wages and working conditions in the fisheries sector, bearing in mind that the agreement applies to all fishermen employed on board a fishing vessel registered in an eu member state. the european union, by incorporating the social partners' agreement on the ilo labour convention in its legislation, will be in a position to promote its implementation in partner countries around the world, thus contributing to greater equity in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends the adoption of the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement concluded between cogeca, etf, europeche in 2013 on the implementation of the ilo labour convention in the fisheries sector. it is particularly worth noting that the convention and its accompanying recommendation 199 call for decent working and living conditions on board vessels, strict health and safety standards, the establishment of a minimum working age and the protection of young workers. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the international labour organisation (ilo) fisheries labour convention as it is a document for the protection of fishermen. the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels require a special agreement. on the other hand, i think it is appropriate, in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity, for this document to provide minimum requirements, leaving room for manoeuvre to the member states and/or the social partners in order to adopt measures more favourable to workers in the sector concerned, in particular as regards the provisions relating to wages, social protection and social security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the adoption of the directive is essential for the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector, as workers in this sector need greater protection, being constantly exposed to dangers and possible accidents.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement on the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector, as the relevant social partners' agreements have not been negotiated by the member states. member states should play a leading role in promoting decent working conditions and wages in the fisheries sector, taking into account that fisheries workers need special protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the implementation of the agreement between the social partners of 21 may 2012, subsequently amended by the council, concerning the implementation of the ilo convention on work in the fisheries sector because i believe that this sector is very important for the economy of many member states and of certain areas of our country in particular. as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group, i have supported this resolution from the outset, the priority being to encourage the council to adopt the directive at the next epsco council on 13 october. four years after the signing of the agreement, the time has come to adopt the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement, because it is urgent to ensure decent working conditions and safety at work for workers in the fisheries sector. the commission's proposal for a council directive incorporates the agreement reached between the social partners to improve the working conditions of the more than 100 000 workers in the european fishing industry, who are often forced to work in very difficult conditions and for long periods at sea.
in writing. this agreement builds on the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector and provides for greater protection for workers working on board fishing vessels, given the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk of occupational diseases and their frequency compared to other sectors in a hazardous work environment. it also aims to ensure decent working and living conditions on board, the responsibility of vessel owners and masters for the health and safety of workers; the establishment of a minimum age for work and the protection of young workers; compulsory medical examinations and certificates; the rest periods; employment agreements, which set out tasks and working conditions. the agreement applies to all fishermen employed on board a fishing vessel which is registered in or flies the flag of an eu member state and which is engaged in commercial fishing operations. for these reasons, the immediate adoption of the council directive is recommended, as requested by the social partners, and i therefore fully support it.
in writing. ‒ the issue of fisheries and fishermen is a very difficult one and the eu must show its capacity to be a solution, not a problem. i regard the text as a step forward for the workers and therefore i feel obliged to approve it.
in writing. ‒ according to commission figures, more than 100,000 people work in the eu fisheries sector, often in difficult conditions. the accident and injury rate can be up to 15 times higher than in other sectors. on 29 april 2016, the european commission, at the request of the social partners, therefore presented a proposal for a council directive implementing the ilo convention on labour in the fisheries sector. the fishing industry has grown considerably. however, this growth has not been without social costs - in terms of working conditions and safety - for both full-time and part-time workers. they often have to spend long periods at sea and are often exposed to unpredictable and dangerous conditions. i therefore voted in favour of this because the adoption of these international standards is essential to protect workers and to ensure more dignified working conditions for them.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland, in particular the dispute over the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal and the failure to publish judgments handed down by the constitutional tribunal, have raised concerns about the guarantees regarding respect for the rule of law. that report expresses concerns about recent and rapid legislative developments that have taken place without proper consultation and therefore urges the commission to carry out an assessment of the adopted legislation as regards its compatibility with eu primary and secondary law and with the values on which the union is founded, with particular reference to the law on public information bodies, the police, the criminal code and the public prosecutor's office, the civil service and the fight against terrorism. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland have seriously undermined the rule of law in the country. the dispute over the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal, the non-publication of its judgments, the already adopted and recently proposed amendments to the polish media act, the police act, the recent amendments to the code of criminal procedure and the procurator's act are all parts of a framework that undermines the fundamental principles of the constitutional order. the joint motion for a resolution adopted today by parliament, which i support, reiterates the position already expressed on 13 april 2016. poland must commit itself to ensuring full respect for fundamental rights, first by overcoming the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal and then by acting on the legislation adopted, in line with the opinion of the venice commission and the recommendation of the european commission. the eu will not accept political and legislative decisions that are contrary to the union's founding values.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the content of this joint resolution. the european union has no right to interfere in matters falling within the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on 'recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights' because the eu has been faced with several emergencies in recent years. one of the dangers for the future of the union is represented by those countries where nationalists and populists have embarked on what some call a 'cultural counter-revolution'. the ventotene summit was an attempt to revive the european project. despite the noble efforts of renzi, merkel and hollande, the reality is that europe is increasingly exposed to cases like poland's. whose government led by nationalist beata szydlo refused to validate the appointment of five judges to the constitutional court. to complete the disturbing picture, the new majority has passed new laws giving parliament control over the media and the prosecutor's offices. this is unacceptable behaviour for an eu country! this has led to justified protests from our european partners. it is time for the eu to speak out and prevent blatantly undemocratic behaviour from poland as from any other eu country.
in writing. ‒ the resolution highlights that the situation of fundamental rights in poland remains a serious concern. in particular, the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal is seriously jeopardising democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. despite the constant attempts by the european institutions to influence a return to normalcy, the situation does not seem to be improving at all, but, on the contrary, it seems to be constantly getting worse. i certainly voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ following recent developments in poland and the serious violations of the rule of law and the principles of the european institutions, i support the resolution proposed by my colleagues weber and gonzález peñas as it stresses the importance of respect for the fundamental rights of citizens and the values of the european union. contrary to what is said in the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues from the enf and the ecr, i think it is appropriate to stress the importance of the eu charter of fundamental rights. it is important to remember that as a member of the european union, poland is obliged to respect the right to a fair trial, the freedom and pluralism of the media and the independence of the judiciary. in line with the report, i therefore call on the polish government to cooperate with the commission in the name of the democratic values on which the eu is founded.
in writing. ‒ recent events in poland concerning the dispute over the composition and functioning of the constitutional tribunal have raised concerns about the guarantees of respect for the rule of law. i voted for the resolution because i believe that it is necessary to uphold and protect the fundamental rights on which the european union is founded, especially in the face of the lack of progress by the polish government in resolving the constitutional crisis. i am also convinced that only through an intensive dialogue with the polish authorities can we help to resolve the legal issues that threaten the polish state. europe and its institutions must defend and promote the rights on which they are built, without giving in to authoritarian tendencies that call into question fundamental freedoms. every day we are targeted by populism and nationalism, and only by reaffirming the rightness and validity of our principles will we be able to thwart the threat and revive the dream of our founding fathers.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution as the european union should not interfere in poland's internal affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on recent developments in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union because i believe that recent events deserve the utmost attention of the eu institutions. given that the eu is founded on respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy and aspires to a pluralistic and non-discriminatory society, it is essential that the new member states also strive to continuously improve their democratic standards. i strongly support the ep's call on the polish government to cooperate with the commission as provided for in the treaties and to maintain the ambition to modernise and open up polish society even further. it is appropriate that the polish parties resolve this constitutional crisis and do their utmost to preserve the rule of law, protect the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press, and protect individual rights and women's rights in particular. i am convinced that all these questions can soon be resolved through constructive and fruitful dialogue between the commission and the polish government and that the future of the citizens of that country will be a future of democracy and freedom.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament reminds the polish government of the values on which the european union is founded: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men and were endorsed by the polish people in the 2003 referendum. we are concerned not only about the constitutional crisis caused by the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal and the refusal of the polish government to publish all the judgments but also about some recent legislative developments which are detrimental to the rights to freedom of expression, media independence, privacy and, above all, to fundamental human rights, including women's rights. we believe it is imperative that the common european values enshrined in article 2 teu and the polish constitution be respected unconditionally. we therefore call on the polish authorities to cooperate with the commission in finding a solution to the present situation as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the situation in poland is of considerable concern, as recent developments risk undermining the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. in particular, the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, the disputes over its functioning and the pressure of the polish government on the public information services threaten democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law itself. unfortunately, the dialogue between the commission and the authorities of the polish government in an attempt to resolve the situation has not shown any significant progress nor has it produced the desired results. similarly, the venice commission has found that the fundamental rights of polish citizens are not adequately protected by the new law on the police force promoted by the warsaw executive. for these reasons, the commission has formalised its recommendations to the polish authorities, with the intention of remedying the crisis as soon as possible, given the systematic threats to the rule of law in the country. the european parliament, as the direct expression of the peoples of europe, cannot accept any political choice which is in clear contradiction with the values on which the union is founded.
in writing. ‒ i share the concern expressed in the resolution about the reforms being promoted by the polish government. the law on public information bodies, the amendment to the police law, the law amending the criminal code and the law on public prosecutors, the amendment to the civil service law and the law on combating terrorism risk creating a regulatory framework incompatible with eu primary and secondary law, the values on which the union is founded and the polish constitution itself. respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights are all at serious risk. the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal by the warsaw government itself, thus preventing any constitutional review of the new legislation, is of further concern in this context. i also share the regret that the polish government has refused to reach a compromise solution with the commission, as guardian of the treaties, based on the principles of loyal cooperation and subsidiarity and on the recommendations of the venice commission. i therefore join my call to the polish government to reach a solution as soon as possible, which guarantees full respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on recent developments in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. the alarming political developments in poland, the functioning of the constitutional court and the non-publication of its judgments, and above all the initiative to introduce a complete ban on abortion, are worrying elements undermining respect for the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. although the commission has opened a dialogue with the polish government to ensure respect for the rule of law, no progress has been made in this regard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to explain the reasons for my abstention on this report, not because i do not appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur, mr castaldo, but because i think that we must literally change course with regard to the european union's policy towards the tunisian people. we have often smuggled in for the benefit of the tunisian people what is in reality a free trade policy which favours european and tunisian multinationals and not the tunisian people, not the small farmers of tunisia and southern europe. that is why we have also been very critical of the issue of the increase in oil quotas, as well as the free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia. in particular, i believe that the european union's practical support should be directed towards the debt problem affecting the tunisian government and people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is an extremely important provision for the political as well as the economic nature of the agreement, because it is addressed to the only country with a complete democracy, a muslim country which has faced a thousand inconveniences since the reforms initiated by the bourguiba revolution until today. there is still the possibility of applying the tunisian model throughout north africa: the european union's aid must therefore be used to guarantee this, to ensure above all that the majority of young tunisians have the chance of a future, of hope, that they do not fall prey to terrorism and radicalism which have also proselytized in this state, and that tunisia in particular can be considered a partner of the european union, a great integrated partner, precisely because of the democratic path it has succeeded in taking over these decades. and thanks to the italian-tunisian relations, which i believe should also become a model for the european union, we have had the opportunity to establish with this north african country the best conditions for cooperation at 360 degrees.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has emerged from the arab spring as an example of a functioning democracy and is struggling to complete its democratic transition. it can be both an example for the other countries in the north african region, which are often characterised by unstable and repressive regimes, and a good ally for the eu. i therefore consider it very important to give our support to tunisia, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the castaldo report on the european union's relations with tunisia. it is a balanced text which, based on an analysis of the current regional context, starting with the recent terrorist attacks, defines the characteristics and proposes new paths for the ongoing democratic consolidation in the country. the text focuses in particular on political and institutional reforms, social and economic development, security, mobility and education. the main demands to the tunisian government relate to the need for technical support to civil society groups, the reform of the criminal code and the judicial sector, and a general strengthening of the process of decentralisation and regionalisation. the report calls on europe to step up its aid to tunisia, a positive example of stability in the arab world, by strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument. only by increasing its commitment to the maghreb country can the union ensure a lasting affirmation of democracy after the end of the ben ali regime.
in writing. ‒ despite some interesting points, this text on eu relations with tunisia has several critical points, which is why i preferred to express my opinion by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ providing economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. tunisia is today one of the few (or perhaps the only) arab countries where the so-called "arab spring" has brought about a modern type of democracy, which looks to the west and the development of the rule of law. a friendly democracy, which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to be gradually integrated into the common free trade area. its strategic position, territorial proximity and key role in the fight against islamic terrorism justify today a european 'marshall plan' to support its economy, strengthen democratic institutions and links with the west: only with a stable tunisia on our side can we weaken the libyan terrorists and the mediterranean migrant smugglers.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the dossier on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context, because tunisia has managed to establish a constitutional system of government within a few years, guaranteeing fundamental rights for the entire population. today the country is led by a freely and transparently elected executive. tunisia is a hope in the arab mediterranean context. this hope was also underlined by the award of the 2015 nobel peace prize to the tunisian quartet for national dialogue for its decisive contribution to the construction of a pluralistic democracy. clearly, many problems remain, the country has been repeatedly targeted by terrorist attacks and bombings, which have affected the tourism sector in particular. it is therefore necessary for europe to be able to take all the necessary steps to support this delicate phase of transition for the country. it is up to europe to show its solidarity and determination by encouraging the country from which the arab spring began and which is certainly a model for all those who want to try to promote peace and democracy in the middle east, north africa and the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on the awareness, on the one hand, of the specificities of the transition and the new democratic life of tunisia after 23 years of dictatorship. on the other hand, the growing importance of supporting and defending it in an increasingly deteriorating regional context. the recent democratic achievements of tunisia constitute an extremely fragile architecture which needs and deserves protection, first and foremost from us europeans who, in addition to being its immediate neighbours, are also the reference point of its present and future development and aspirations. in addition to economic aid, such as the proposal to convert tunisian debt back into investment projects, we must encourage social inclusion, visa facilitation, especially for artists, students, teachers, as well as all forms of partnership in the field of culture and creativity. encouragement, however sincere, is no longer enough. now we need action. the stability of tunisia is our stability. its prosperity is our prosperity. the tunisian civil society has won the nobel peace prize, and the european union must win the prize for solidarity and foresight. my vote was undoubtedly in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the european union's relations with tunisia in the current regional context. i express my full support for the assembly of representatives of the tunisian people in the process of democratization undertaken for the welfare of tunisia itself and to provide stability in an extremely precarious environment. however, it is crucial that the house speeds up the reform process as the country is pressing for new legislation containing more gender balanced policies and the abolition of the death penalty. in this connection, i recognize the importance of the new parliamentary committee set up between europe and tunisia, which will allow, through regular meetings, a profound dialogue on any aspect of common interest. given the current chaotic situation in north africa, there is a natural concern about instability in neighbouring libya and the large number of tunisian fighters joining the islamic state, and i therefore welcome the development of two strategies. the first concerns a social inclusion programme to prevent terrorist organisations from being able to recruit new members by exploiting poverty and degradation, as they have unfortunately been able to do in other areas. the second concerns cooperation between european and tunisian intelligence agencies, considering terrorism as a common challenge to be tackled together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on eu relations with tunisia because i believe that tunisia's strategic geographical position makes it one of the priority countries in the eu's european neighbourhood policy and that the peaceful democratic transition process in tunisia in recent years is a positive example in the arab world, which is of fundamental importance for the stability of the whole region and, consequently, for security in europe. the difficult security situation in the country, which is mainly due to the problems affecting libya, has affected tourism, which is a key element for the tunisian economy, which is largely dependent on foreign investment, which can only be guaranteed through the progressive development of democracy in the country. the eu and its member states must continue to work with the tunisian people and government to promote trade and tourism policies by coordinating technical and financial resources to support the country as best as possible.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is a key country in the eu's european neighbourhood policy and remains a successful model of democratic transition following the arab spring. i voted in favour of this resolution because i intend to support the action of the eu and the member states in favour of tunisia, which is suffering the consequences of libyan instability and terrorist attacks and which must be supported by the eu through financial and technical resources. i am convinced that supporting tunisia's stability, democracy, the fight against corruption and economic development also benefits the priorities shared with the eu, such as trade and cultural exchanges, security, the tourism sector. initiatives such as the establishment of an eu-tunisia joint parliamentary committee contribute to the ongoing economic and administrative reform process in the country and encourage the continuation of progress made in a number of areas, such as respect for international standards on freedom of association. the resolution reiterates that cooperation between the eu and tunisia must continue in the light of full respect for human rights and calls on tunisia to reform the law on the state of emergency, the use of torture and the death penalty, and freedom of the press and media.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i support the process of democratization and economic reforms under way in tunisia. in the wake of the arab spring, i believe that the european union must play a key role in this process to promote the country's economy, security and better job prospects for tunisian citizens. that is why i support the establishment of a joint parliamentary committee of meps and tunisian meps to launch a structured political dialogue on civil rights, the rule of law and economic progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of strengthening the european union's relations with tunisia, a strategic partner of europe and, in particular, of italy in the mediterranean. i therefore hope that the process of democratization in the country will be accelerated, as will the necessary economic and social reforms. i am pleased that despite the complex internal situation in the country, the tunisian government has considered new ways of accelerating the key priority policies. these changes in favour of the rule of law will further reduce the economic stagnation and lack of prospects among young tunisians, which are the main reasons for the appeal of extremist and terrorist groups.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because i do not fully agree with the report, despite some positive aspects such as the commitment to combating islamic terrorism and the strengthening of economic support for tunisia's social and productive development.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is a key country in eu foreign policy; tunisia was the only country that came out of the ‘arab spring’ as a democracy and this democratic transition can serve as an example across north africa and the muslim world. given this, and the current economic crisis in the country, the consolidation of stability in tunisia is of paramount importance. tunisia needs significant eu support to make necessary political and economic reforms, and i support the report in welcoming the commission’s macro-financial aid to tunisia. i also agree with the report that cooperation with tunisia and technical support to the country is needed in the area of defence and security, especially given the chaotic situation in libya.
in writing. ‒ the stability and development of our neighbours in the southern mediterranean are strategic objectives of major importance. tunisia, which was the first country to experience regime change following the arab revolutions, has always been a major political and commercial partner for the european union. the strengthening of economic cooperation must go hand in hand with concrete support for democratic reforms and security cooperation in the region. the report we have adopted today calls on europe to assume its responsibility as a democratic actor: the diplomatic attraction we can have is indeed of great importance, to accompany tunisian society and institutions towards cooperation that can make it easier to manage the great crises of our time, such as the fight against terrorism, the management of migration flows, environmental sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context because i believe it is essential to support the small maghreb country in the process of democratic transition following the arab spring of 2011. tunisia is the only country in the arab world on the right track towards peaceful establishment of the rule of law and represents a positive example of democracy after the popular uprisings that in the rest of the maghreb and the middle east had a dramatic outcome. it is therefore vital, for the survival of the still fragile internal balance, undermined by the threat of terrorism and a serious economic crisis, to support the efforts of the young democracy, to guarantee respect for fundamental rights and to protect its stability and security, with consequent positive effects on the whole neighbourhood. since the tunisian economy is heavily dependent on foreign investment, tourism and the export of products to the eu, it is important that the european neighbourhood policy funds provide assistance mainly to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are essential for the development of the country's economic fabric, and which support the spread of know-how, training of professionals and skills on the job.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on the eu’s relations with tunisia in the current regional context. tunisia has proven to be a worthy representation to its arab neighbours in the context of a peaceful democratic transition and stability within its borders amid terrorist attacks and collateral damage from the situation in libya. hence, i consider eu relations with an african country like tunisia, that is working hard on its democratic elements, important so as to be able to promote common interests, such as trade, investment, tourism, culture, and society. tunisia now has a constitution that protects press independence, among other rights, which can help europe to consider the country a key partner in the eu’s fight to tackle terrorism. collaboration between europe and the african state can positively contribute to a more thorough and consolidated democracy in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ having regard to tunisia's courageous move towards a democratic and pluralistic political system, the strong commitment of civil society to this end, and the major economic and security challenges that threaten its success, we shall vote in favour of the report. the contents and the holistic vision that characterise it respond consistently to the broad range of objectives set by european foreign policy in support of the country and, more generally, of africa. the attacks that have hit the country have, in fact, undermined its most important economic voice, tourism. the resulting economic dislocation has further aggravated tunisia's social situation, increasing inequalities and increasing the risk of radicalisation among the most vulnerable. the complicated situation is compounded by the great demonstration of solidarity with the almost two million libyan refugees. the report is consistent with the measures adopted by the european parliament to alleviate the causes of migration, such as the negotiations for a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement, financial assistance measures and trade facilitation. the report, which we welcome, promotes cooperation for sustainable development and security.
in writing. ‒ in addition to reiterating my vote in favour of this text and thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work of compromise he has been able to carry out, i would like to publicly thank the tunisian government and citizens for what they have done in recent years. i hope that tunisia can serve as an example and a model for other countries in north africa which are still experiencing difficulties as a result of bad policies and regrettable events.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is a success story in the arab world and its consolidation is of paramount importance for the stability of the entire region. it is essential that its democratic transition is strengthened and supported, politically and economically. terrorist attacks have had a devastating effect on the economy, particularly targeting the tourism sector, and unemployment remains very high, especially among young people. in this context, more and better support is needed for capacity building of tunisian institutions, the judicial system and security-related reforms. the eu can do much in this regard by accompanying the reform process, launching projects to support civil society, increasing the support provided through the european neighbourhood instrument and coordinating international support. at the same time, the union must promote respect for human rights by developing monitoring mechanisms that guarantee, in particular, fundamental freedoms and gender equality. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we must give tunisia and all the countries of north africa adequate support so that they can carry forward their process of democratization and ensure that islamist terrorism is counteracted. this area of the world is of vital importance for europe, for our security and for our economy. the mediterranean is the cradle of our civilisation and we must look at this regional context with greater attention. but support for tunisia must not be achieved by means of such a vicious scheme as the additional quota of olive oil imported duty-free into the eu. the eu-tunisia relations must be based on mutual benefit and not asymmetry. in this connection, i believe that, without primarily affecting the agricultural sector, it would be more useful to invest in cooperation in the tourism and cultural sectors. beyond this, which is important, i think the report is balanced and it paints a good picture of the state of bilateral relations. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has always been one of the priority countries in the eu's european neighbourhood policy. the report highlights the need to strengthen the eu-tunisia partnership and to steer it towards more ambitious actions. the cooperation between the arab country and its neighbours and the process of democratic transition, which was a positive example of the arab spring, are praised. the socioeconomic situation of tunisia is still difficult and the country faces major challenges in political reform, socioeconomic development, security and defence. in view of the challenges and threats facing tunisia in order to consolidate the democratic process and to implement the necessary reforms, i believe that improved coordination of eu-tunisia relations is imperative. i voted in favour of the report because it encourages the union to establish a genuine and solid partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu relations with tunisia to strengthen transnational ties, support the ongoing democratization process and call for greater protection of human rights. this will also ensure greater economic stability in tunisia, strengthen the role of civil society organisations and give a greater impetus to research, education and culture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to explain the reasons for my vote in favour of this report, which is a first step in the union's fight against social dumping. i believe that this is only the first step and that there is still a long way to go in the fight against social dumping, which, as we know, is the result of a wild globalization that allows capital to move freely and is linked to an increasingly radical process of deregulation, which is systematically eroding the rights of workers. i think that this race to the bottom in the field of labour rights must be stopped and i think that this must be done either by establishing european labour standards, and thus, say, supplementing national legislation upwards, or by establishing a minimum income for citizens at european level, as we shall be discussing tomorrow in the house.
in writing. ‒ unfair competition between companies is a huge problem, as european workers do not have the same social rights and obligations. the report proposes some solutions to this problem, focusing in particular on improving control and inspection tools, modernising the recording of work performance by also producing a single digital social rights transfer document for each european worker and finally producing a 'black list' containing all companies which have committed infringements in the field of workers' protection. to ensure that all european workers have a high level of social protection within the eu i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the current context presents a number of conditions which seriously undermine the level of social protection which underpins the whole project of european integration. the balas report, which i strongly supported, tackles the issue of social dumping in the union, strongly highlighting the damage caused by increased competition between economic operators. excessive competition leads not only to a reduction in labour costs but also to a weakening of social standards and the same rights that should be guaranteed to employees on the continent. reversing this downward trend must be a priority, and this requires first of all improving controls and inspections at all levels, increasing the human and financial resources available to the authorities. reforms are needed to modernise labour registration, urgent action in the transport sector, a single digital social rights transfer document for every european worker and measures such as the creation of a european list of companies guilty of serious infringements. only by resolving the asymmetry between the reality of the internal market and social rights will it be possible to create a real upward social convergence.
in writing. ‒ the single market is an unfair and sick project supported by the european institutions. the free movement of workers and the enormous differences in labour costs between member states have turned relocation and dumping into social scourges that are wiping out entire economic sectors in italy, such as construction and road transport. our territories and our workers are victims of the unfair maneuvers of foreign interim agencies and multinational companies, which are slaughtering our productive fabric, leaving italian workers in a desert of unemployment and social problems. the rules of the single market must be rewritten, this time in the interests of our people. for all these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ labour and social policy legislation is still a matter for the member states. in the absence of harmonisation mechanisms and with very different social systems, the single market and the free movement of workers can give rise to practices such as social dumping. these are forms of unfair competition between firms and indirectly between workers, which seek to use the most advantageous of the existing rules in the various member states. we are faced with a problem which is not only social but also political and which requires a european solution aimed at protecting its citizens. i therefore welcome this report which tackles the various aspects of the phenomenon and highlights the need for an initiative to tackle the issue of unfair competition between european companies and the resulting abusive practices which jeopardise the rights of citizens as workers.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, the economic side often prevails over the social side: this leads to imbalances, especially territorial ones, where a different level of protection of rights from one state to another leads to the exploitation of low-skilled labour, to internal migration of the same labour and to a risk of a double system of internal social and security standards, with the consequence of increasing internal differences and mistrust between citizens of the union and generating social envy. the specific weakness of the social protection of certain employees such as 'sea workers', who are victims of the use, by many shipowners, of flags of convenience, which allow employers to evade social obligations, should be emphasized. such practices have a negative impact on safety standards and contribute to the decline in the number of qualified european seafarers and the loss of their know-how. this is not acceptable for the world's leading political reality in promoting living standards and individual rights: the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough. the introduction of a duty of care for the most important european companies in relation to the activities of their subsidiaries and subcontractors is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the problem of social dumping is of great urgency and requires urgent and targeted action. one of the fundamental principles of eu policies is social cohesion. this means that there is an urgent need to bring wages closer together in order to ensure better and more effective social protection for all workers. in the present union, considerable differences persist in terms of both working conditions and pay. unfair competition reduces operating and labour costs, and it leads to serious violations of workers' rights, even to the point of exploitation. the social rights, for which the member states still have competence in many cases, must be harmonized. i agree with the rapporteur that we should strengthen controls and inspections in accordance with the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the distortions linked to the internal market as currently conceived. there are no social rights and treatment for workers valid throughout the union, which leads to dumping to their detriment. competition between economic operators is in fact being dumped on the cost of labour, leading to a deleterious race to the bottom of standards. the report recommends measures to address the shortcomings in the fight against unfair competition and to promote the portability of workers' social rights. i certainly voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ social and economic inequalities in europe are jeopardising the achievement of the europe 2020 poverty and employment goals. the increasing trend towards underground work, outsourcing and subcontracting, and the consequent increase in precariousness and deterioration in the level of protection of workers, are among the primary causes of this disparity. social dumping and other forms of unfair competition are preventing the achievement of working conditions and social standards guaranteed at european level. i therefore appreciated the emphasis in the report on the primacy of fundamental rights and the desire to intensify the social dialogue against dumping. i believe that the creation of a european body of labour inspectors to investigate unfair competition and cases of social dumping can be an effective measure. in addition, it should be noted that women are often the most affected by social dumping and undeclared work, especially in domestic and care work. i very much hope that the commission, in cooperation with its member states, will undertake a detailed and timely analysis of the situation of women who are victims of such practices. on the basis of these observations, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this important and controversial subject, in order to send a positive signal to the struggle for workers' social rights. i congratulate my colleague danuta jazlowiecka on the excellent work she has done on this report. i am glad that a final compromise with the s&d group has made it possible to propose, for the first time at european level, a definition of 'social dumping', understood as intentional abusive practices and circumvention of european and national legislation to the detriment of workers.
in writing. ‒ 'social dumping', a term which at present has no legally recognised and universally agreed definition, yet it is common knowledge that illegal practices are proliferating which allow unfair competition to develop, thus creating an asymmetry between the reality of a constantly evolving internal market and highly heterogeneous social rights, which weakens adherence to the principle of the internal market and weakens confidence in the european construction. rather than hiding behind protectionist policies, adopting unilateral decisions on social matters, states would do better to cooperate with each other, strengthening controls to prevent, above all, the use by certain economic actors of illegal practices such as underground work or abusive practices such as false selfemployment, which can lead to serious market distortions, to the detriment of honest companies, in particular smes, and all those sectors most affected, such as agriculture, construction and the food sector. i believe in the need to achieve social convergence in the eu, for a fairer labour market in order to achieve strong and sustainable competitiveness in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's resolution is a step forward for the europe of social convergence, which wants to affirm its will for social progress, and which reduces the differences and therefore the contrasts and discriminations between workers who practice the profession in different european nations. i voted in favour of the resolution because i think it is appropriate that the measures proposed by the european parliament include increased control and coordination between and by the member states against companies which are responsible for serious breaches of social labour legislation and of the fundamental rights of workers, in combating social dumping in the transport sector which is particularly fragmented at european level also through the creation of a european agency for wheeled transport and in protecting women who are particularly affected by social dumping.
in writing. ‒ the structural reforms in the field of labour demanded by europe have resulted in precarious contracts and reduced social security in some member states. in addition, the 'selling off' of social protection in favour of more favourable economic treatment, exploitation through breaches of working and rest times, reduced competitiveness with china and other third countries, but also the growing tendency in italy to use vouchers instead of regular employment contracts, or even to resort to the corporate sector, lead to an increase in precariousness, forms of enslavement, lack of security at the workplace and reduced tax revenues for the member states. the proposal to penalize those who use social dumping to make more profit is welcome, but more widespread and more stringent controls are needed. finally, i welcome the proposal to counter the decline in the employment rate caused by the economic and financial crisis with a paradigm shift that puts income ahead of work and pursues the objective of ensuring a 'citizenship minimum income' throughout the european union to ensure a free and dignified existence. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the heterogeneity of national and european social and labour law means that social dumping is still a reality in the european union today. as in the case of trade relations with our partners, we must combat this phenomenon to prevent the serious market distortions we are facing and to ensure equal treatment and non-discrimination for all european workers. as the report argues, the european commission and the member states will need to ensure that checks are strengthened to ensure better implementation of existing legislation, and to encourage greater coordination between and by member states to combat the deterioration in the levels of protection of workers and the quality of work in general, which is very often caused by the abuse and circumvention of existing legislation by certain economic actors. the illegal reduction of operating and labour costs leads to unfair competition and the violation of workers' rights, which is harmful to honestly working enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are very important players in the european production system. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ social dumping occurs when an employer hires labour at a lower cost than the resources available on the national market. this practice must be limited as it has a negative impact on the social fabric, affecting above all the weaker sections of employees. i supported the report because it is committed to improving controls and legislation at both european and national level for the development of a sustainable and competitive economy while respecting workers' rights and social progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, despite the efforts made to ensure an adequate level of social protection for all workers, the specific competence of the national laws of the member states in the field of pay, social security, taxation and labour market reform cannot be reduced.
in writing. - i vote against: i am not going to go into the details of the report.
in writing. ‒ the issue of social dumping is very high on the political agenda on many member states; one example being during the brexit campaign. social dumping is a real threat to many ordinary europeans and it might risk the integrity of the internal market and the european project if no action is taken. thus i fully support that a report has been many on this topic and i think that it in a good way highlights the issues at hand. the report rightly notes that increased cooperation and controls are needed to close regulation gaps and that better inspections of malpractices are needed. this report is a step in the right direction, but more action will be needed to reassure our citizens that we are tackling the problem of social dumping.
in writing. ‒ today's approval of the social dumping text in plenary is an act of responsibility and commitment that parliament has made in relation to workers' rights. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the same time. that is why i have supported this report, which calls for a revision of the current directive on the posting of workers, indicating as a priority the respect of fair and non-discriminatory working conditions, a strong fight against unfair competition, greater controls on the supply chains of suspicious subcontracting companies, and also putting forward the proposal for a minimum wage. i fully believe in what is a stubbornly fought battle by the s&d group in parliament: the protection of social rights is the best investment europe can make for the future of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the ep's own-initiative resolution on social dumping in the european union because i shared from the outset the need to send a strong signal to the european commission to reflect in depth on the social consequences of labour markets without fundamental rules, which affect a large number of workers in europe. the subject is the subject of a great deal of debate in europe, both between workers and between member states, with deep divisions among the latter. the ep has identified by a large majority the following concrete proposals: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, such as the creation of a blacklist of companies responsible for serious breaches of existing social labour legislation, the creation of a european road transport agency to ensure compliance with the rules, the introduction of a 60% threshold for the national average wage as a reference for setting the minimum wage in the eu, the extension of joint liability of companies, to name just a few. the time has come to give answers and find solutions to this problem, while respecting existing legislation and the need to revise some of it, such as the directive on the posting of workers, which is a priority of the s&d group in the ep.
in writing. ‒ the practice of social dumping not only undermines the principle of the internal market and the competitiveness of enterprises, but also undermines workers' rights, with the resultant long-term damage to social security systems, an increase in precariousness and a deterioration in the levels of protection of workers and the quality of work in general. we call for decisive action by the member states both in the field of preventing and combating social fraud and in the field of crossborder cooperation. a concrete demand from today's vote is for shell companies and the will expressed by this house to establish an eu-wide list of companies guilty of serious breaches of union labour and social law that are denied access to public procurement, public subsidies and eu funds for a period of time set by law. we have spoken in favour of the principle that each company should have only one principal place of business and should carry on a 'genuine' activity in the member state of incorporation. with this vote we recall that labour rights and high social standards are essential to rebalance economies, support incomes and encourage productive investment.
in writing. this report has been the subject of several debates, culminating in an agreed text after various compromises. the aim of the report is to create a system which is capable of promoting an efficient economy and a high level of social protection. workers in europe do not have the same rights and obligations, and this causes unfair economic and social competition between companies. for these reasons, the report sets out the measures needed to close the legislative and regulatory loopholes which, to date, favour unfair competition. as a first step, it wants to strengthen controls on the implementation of current policies by increasing and training the human and financial resources tasked with enforcing the rules. the report also calls for the modernisation of labour registration reforms and the creation of a digital social rights document to be made available to all european workers. in the light of the above, i am voting in favour of the report on social dumping in the european union.
in writing. – as much as we try to tackle discrimination, we cannot avoid having such situations arising at moments affecting people in the workforce. maybe we cannot stop discrimination from happening, but as a union, we can certainly take measures to counter the impact it has on people. hence, my reason to vote in favour of establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation is that i support the commission and the member states focusing not only on legislation but also on creating a working culture and securing the well-being for everyone. europe is a diverse continent, and sometimes religion has become ground for discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the proposal for a european policy to combat social dumping. when the european union was created, it was intended to be a democratic area with an efficient economy and a high level of social protection. the task of protecting the social rights of the peoples of europe had been delegated to the member states, which were to harmonise their welfare systems with the aim of avoiding unfair forms of competition. nevertheless, the problem of social dumping today affects european individuals and communities in violation of the principles of the internal market and the union's spirit of solidarity. the interconnection of markets raises the issue of reconciling different social protection systems, leading to widespread distrust in the union's ability to guarantee the rights of its citizens. this is why we need european policies to protect workers and regulate the activities of companies. we need measures to ensure that companies pay taxes in the countries where they make their profits, we need a tightening up of tax havens and a new directive on precarious work. in short, a european pillar of social rights must be activated.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate you on your work and contribution to this text. we all, regardless of political affiliation, and considering that one of the fundamental principles of eu policies is social cohesion, must develop rules and instruments which discourage and counteract the development of unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ the lack of a real balance between economic freedom and social rights has allowed the proliferation of abusive practices and unfair social competition, which contradict the principles on which the european internal market is based and trigger a generalised 'race to the bottom' of social protection. this is likely to seriously undermine the high level of social protection that has historically characterised european countries and, as a result, is undermining citizens' trust in the european union, which is increasingly perceived as an entity that weakens individuals and communities instead of protecting and strengthening them. it is in this context that populist movements and protectionist tendencies are proliferating, which, far from offering effective answers to the problem, risk aggravating it. the s&d group is well aware of the seriousness of the problem and this report is a clear expression of our commitment to combating social dumping. it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament should take a firm stand and make its voice heard in the building of a more social europe, a europe which can therefore earn and win the support of all its citizens. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the european union. this report is necessary because of the strong asymmetry within the european union between economic freedoms and social rights, which has fuelled a sentiment that weakens both individuals and the community, rather than guaranteeing the protection of its population. the increase in abusive practices and unfair social competition is undermining the principle of the internal market and is undermining confidence in the construction of europe. these phenomena are an incentive for member states to adopt protectionist policies and to adopt unilateral decisions in social matters. this report, which follows numerous hearings with experts, employers and employee representatives, proposes measures to address the legislative and regulatory gaps which are contributing to the development of unfair competition currently present in the internal market.
in writing. workers' rights and social protection within the eu vary from one country to another, creating a situation of unfair competition between european companies. social protection and workers' rights are also being reduced. the increased competition between economic operators leads to a reduction in the cost of labour, with a consequent deterioration in the rights of european employees. the report recommends a series of measures aimed at addressing the legislative and regulatory gaps which are fostering the development of unfair competition currently present in the internal market. the aim of this document is to put an end to what is a major contradiction in the internal market. the committee calls for increased controls and inspections, both at european and national level, resulting from the application of existing legislation. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national authorities responsible for enforcing the rules. the commission is proposing to strengthen this fight by also establishing a european blacklist of companies guilty of serious infringements such as the use of underground work. this is a battle i share and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is misleading for investors to exclude credit risk from the calculation of the risk categorisation of insurance products, as consumer information on investment products should be fully comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market. therefore, since the delegated act adopted by the commission contains gaps in the methodology for calculating future performance scenarios and therefore does not fulfil the requirement under regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to provide information that is 'accurate, correct, clear and not misleading', there is a risk of a conflict with the spirit and purpose of the legislation, which is to provide clear, comparable, understandable and non-misleading information on priips to retail investors. this report therefore calls for the dele­gated regulation not to enter into force, while at the same time calling on the commission to present a new delegated act to take account of the risks mentioned above. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution objecting to the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for pre-packaged retail investment and insurance products. priips represent a market worth around eur 10 trillion and therefore priip legislation needs to be particularly appropriate to highlight the risks associated with these products. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the priips are not subject to the same risk-based approach as the priips. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the wording of the objection is balanced and free of particular criticisms. i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the chamber, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 30 june 2016 supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council as i believe that information for consumers on investment products should be consistent and comparable, to achieve a level playing field in the market regardless of the source. the credit risk element should certainly be included in the calculation of the categories and this is an essential element of the prospectus. it is also urgent to define the treatment of products allowing multiple options as well as the development of the methodology for calculating future performance scenarios, which must meet the requirement to provide information that is 'accurate, correct, clear and not misleading'. further standardisation of the timing of the use of comprehensibility warnings is also needed.
in writing. ‒ this is a parliamentary objection to the commission's proposed delegated act implementing the priips regulation on retail investment and insurance products. the technical implementing rules developed by the commission in the delegated act were found to be highly inconsistent with the objectives of the regulation to enable investors to invest in an informed manner on the basis of clear, correct and comprehensible information, ensuring maximum transparency and comparability between financial products. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because i believe that information on investment products must be clear and comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the single market and to ensure freedom and full awareness of consumer choices. in the light of what has happened in italy with collective investment schemes (i am referring to the actual deception of those who have bought subordinated bonds from certain credit institutions), it is clear that they need a single piece of legislation capable of overcoming the existing shortcomings. the objections raised in the resolution relate to shortcomings in the method of calculating future returns and the elimination of credit risk in the calculation of the risk category represented by the product, these are elements that can be misleading for the investor and therefore should be avoided. in line with the above, the commission is requested to issue a new delegated act clarifying the treatment of ucits and requiring accurate, clear and non-misleading information in line with the legislative purpose that led to the creation of the regulation itself.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of consumer information on investment products, and the right to be able to compare such products in order to promote a level playing field in the market, i agree with the objections raised by the rapporteur to the commission's delegated regulation. the priips should be subject to the same rules as the priips that are not covered by the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of aimplementation of regulatory technical standards for key information on retail investment and insurance products, because i believe it is essential that consumer information on investment products is comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market, regardless of the type of financial intermediary that produces or markets them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to a delegated act on key information documents for pre-assembled retail investment and insurance products, proposed by the commission as part of the implementation of the priips directive, as i am in favour of a high standardisation and simplification of information for consumers on investment products being comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market regardless of the type of financial intermediary producing or marketing them. it would be misleading for investors to exclude credit risk from the calculation of the risk categorisation of insurance products. the commission's delegated act contains gaps in the methodology for calculating future performance scenarios and fails to ensure that the information is 'accurate, correct, clear and not misleading'. the lack of detailed guidance in the delegated regulation on 'understandability reports' creates a serious risk of inconsistency in the application of this element in the key information document across the market. the implementation of the regulation is fundamental and requires the utmost attention and adherence to the regulation. i therefore fully support the proposal made by the rapporteur, mrs berès, to postpone the application of the regulation for one year without making any further changes to the provisions contained in the regulation.
in writing. i vote in favour of the commission delegated regulation supplementing the regulation on key information documents for pre-assembled retail investment and insurance products. the commission has not provided any information on the actual value of the imports from the prc. the proposal raises objections to the delegated regulation to the commission and calls for the submission of a new delegated act which respects the current rules.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur and i thank all of you because this vote is the right example of what a good european policy should be in defence of the citizen and his rights. we must all fight for and insist on the need for complete, simple and direct information, especially on investment, wherever appropriate.
in writing. this is a parliamentary objection to reject the delegated act proposed by the commission to implement the priips regulation on retail investment and insurance products. the technical implementing rules developed by the commission in the delegated act, under the strong pressure of the financial lobbies, have in fact been found to be in direct conflict with the objectives of the regulation to enable investors to invest in an informed manner on the basis of accurate, clear, understandable and non-misleading information, ensuring maximum transparency and comparability between financial products. since these technical standards are intended to regulate key elements of the kid, including the probabilistic performance scenarios, risk indicators, cost calculation methodology - this motion rightly asks the commission to postpone the date of application of the regulation and to rewrite the delegated act from scratch, taking full account of the objectives of the regulation and the concerns expressed by this parliament. in the absence of these fundamental technical rules, a provisional application of the priips would risk seriously harming investors by providing them with incomplete and misleading information, thus playing into the hands of lobbies, and would also allow unelected technocrats to override the democratic will of legislators. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for pre-assembled retail investment and insurance products. this regulation has become necessary following the financial crisis of 2007-2008. the regulation requires manufacturers or sellers of investment products to provide investors with documents containing key information on the products. the aim is to help investors understand and compare the main features and risks of these products.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the negative effects of the decisions of caterpillar and alstom will also have an impact on italy, my country. it seems that the number of jobs at stake in an alstom plant on the outskirts of milan exceeds 200. i hope that the italian government will also join in the attempt to help resolve this dispute, because the number of jobs is really enormous in my country too. on the other hand, the question of the responsibility of the european union in general, as regards the possibility of reviving manufacturing on our continent, is absolutely the subject of our discussion today. it is obvious, we know it and we have said it many times: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us not lament the loss of jobs and then generate an energy policy which is totally contrary to the development of our industry. let us not lament the loss of jobs and then turn a blind eye to the recognition of china's market economy status. let us not lament the loss of jobs and then have a conception of public budgets in our member states which is totally contrary to the possibility of a revival of investment by the member states themselves and by those political actors who, in collaboration with private actors, can be the fertile ground for a genuine revival of our economy and all the jobs associated with it.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the apple case clearly shows that the state aid rules are not the right way to punish a company, the state and those who have carried out and encouraged this type of immoral practice, precisely because the same state that encouraged tax evasion will be rewarded with the payment of back taxes and no sanction will be applied to the multinational. so we must work, and fast, for discipline in this respect, so that there is fair treatment, and we must also name the countries which are not cooperative in putting down a proposal, because we have been talking about this for twenty years. i was recently, for the last two years, on the taxe committee, we made visits: i've seen in luxembourg more badges representing companies that very likely adopt patterns similar to apple's, than real jobs, real businesses and real businesses, many badges also from banks, by the way, so very big interests that going to touch will be very difficult. we must, however, cooperate at international level, and be courageous in this respect, and identify, especially in the council, those who are opposed to a certain type of agreement and compromise on this. no compromises are to be made: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. as i said in my speech, this sanction system, which gives the possibility of paying back taxes in that country, is not fair, because abuses have been made by apple and ireland against countries where the real economic activity was carried out. of course taxes would have to be paid there, so taxes have to be paid where this activity is carried out. it is in our common interest to try to cooperate in this regard: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission's decision to consider apple's tax treatment illegal is a courageous and very important decision, not least because it reopens the debate on the subject - as you are seeing and hearing - with some useful insights. we have reached the paradox that in europe the 'how' and 'if' of paying taxes has become the fundamental factor of competition between countries, and this has happened in the past few years. it is a condition which must be overcome for the benefit of the small and mediumsized enterprises system, but also for the sake of loyalty and relations between individual citizens and their institutions. of course, we cannot always proceed - although it is desirable - with investigations involving individual companies. we need common rules. the first, as has been mentioned, is that of a consolidated tax base for all european companies. the second is country-by-country reporting. i would point out to you the delay in discussing the proposal you have made and also the glaring limitations of the proposal. the principle is there, but if the threshold is high, and therefore excludes the vast majority of companies, there is very little left in the material translation of a principle. finally, i would like to say that we also need a directive to protect whistleblowers, who cannot be regarded as hostile to their community, but rather as performing an important function for their community. it goes without saying that all this will not be possible if we do not also open the great chapter of amending the european treaties in the meantime, because taxation must become a policy of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, apple has paid taxes on a ridiculous 50 euro per million profit, taking advantage of the irish 'stateless companies' tax law and using it as a shield without employees, premises and assets. i congratulate you, commissioner, on your determination and courage. but the damage is not just fiscal or free competition damage, it is also ethical damage. i try a different approach: i would like to ask you not to touch your cell phone during my talk. you'll have a hard time, we're addicted. this means that apple, samsung, google and facebook, the companies most involved in the issues of fair competition, the right to privacy, the right to be forgotten, have a responsibility to treat the dissemination of multimedia content with greater care. the violation of these rules, far from being just an accounting fact, leaves defenseless victims, like tiziana these days in italy. "think different" is what we're starting to say.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring the swift and transparent return of irregular migrants is a precondition for being able to guarantee full reception and protection for regular migrants. that is why this very technical regulation introduces nothing but innovates compared to the 1994 document. as the rapporteur has said, and i thank him for his work, it is easier to do this, standards are being harmonised, including quality standards, counterfeiting is being avoided, and third countries are being given the opportunity to recognise this document. but i also wanted to dwell for a moment in this brief speech on the ppe group's push for the introduction of this more explicit passage concerning article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the child, also because it is a subject which is very close to my heart and i would like to refer to it. we explicitly point out that in all acts relating to children, whether carried out by public authorities or private institutions, the best interests of the child must be considered paramount. so, even though this is a technical regulation, we wanted to include this fundamental step. so i think basically he did a great job. we have all contributed, and we are therefore in favour of the adoption of this regulation, which, i repeat, is a first step towards improving the conditions and reception of legal migrants and a better and more rapid response to the expulsion of irregular migrants.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly faced with a resolution which can also be taken positively, in the sense that, after several years, i see that there is now a large majority in parliament who believe that people who arrive illegally or who in any case do not meet the criteria for being able to remain within the european union should be repatriated. the problem is that i do not want this to be, as has unfortunately happened many times before, a matter of good intentions, of attempts to do things which then turn out to be mere bureaucracy, bureaucracy which may even be putting the ministries of the interior of the member states in even more difficulty. look, commissioner, if we started last year with a policy, an attempt to put the immigration question in order, i would point out that in the first months of this year alone, more than a hundred thousand people arrived in italy, as you are surely aware. we know very well that 60% of these people have no criteria for remaining in the european union, with no international protection whatsoever - they are not fleeing war and are not entitled to any international protection whatsoever - and yet less than 5 000 people have been repatriated. effective repatriation for less than 5 000 people. so you understand that there is obviously a problem and probably, from my point of view, there is also a political problem, of political will. there are obviously some who think we should welcome everyone, but we know very well that with the millions of unemployed in europe we cannot give these people any future. we couldn't give these people any future and so these people couldn't integrate and if they couldn't integrate, what would happen? it would be possible for some of them to be driven towards illegality, towards crime, and for others to be fascinated by the follies of islamic extremism, which we unfortunately see. so it is necessary for the very survival of europe that there should be a serious, well-executed return policy, and i hope, in fact, that there should also be the political will to do so, because i am sure that there will be a lot of resistance. because i repeat: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east, and that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i hope, of course, that this is not the intention and that a solution can be found. but i recommend: we must do this quickly and effectively, because if we do not do this quickly and effectively, unfortunately, there is a risk that this european union will collapse on the issue of immigration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the migration phenomenon calls for a sound migration and asylum policy, which now also implies the need to regulate more effectively, through an appropriate legislative document, the decisions to return those who are staying illegally in europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the return policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the return policy. the introduction of a harmonised travel document at european level will certainly raise security standards and reduce red tape, costs and waiting times for irregular migrants. however, for the measure to be effective, the commission will have to engage in a constructive dialogue with third countries on readmission. it is particularly important that the document includes the need for return procedures to be carried out in full respect of the fundamental rights and dignity of returnees and that the best interests of minors are always taken into account.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks for this very fruitful debate and the remarks. as i said in the beginning in my introductory remarks, this travel document is one very important element to improve our return policies and make them more effective. but it is not the only one. the commission will now work on the implementation of the travel document in close collaboration with the member states. the objective is to promote, in readmission or other agreements at both european and member state level, a wide acceptance of the travel document by third countries. if we direct our efforts properly, it can become a key tool for improving cooperation on return and readmission with the main countries of origin and transit of returnees. as requested by parliament, the commission will report to the council and parliament on the implementation of the regulation within two years. ms gabriel, thank you for giving me the opportunity to stress that we are committed to supporting bulgaria. right now, my director general is in sofia talking with the bulgarian government, the bulgarian authorities, to assess their needs in funding, experts, border guards and equipment, as president juncker stressed today in his speech. this support should be made available immediately: it is a priority for us, and for me personally. thank you again for your support, honourable members of the parliament, and for your excellent cooperation on this legislative process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by ska keller on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece (com ((2016) 0171 c80133/2016 2016/0089(nle)) (a8-0236/2016).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this dossier, for which i had the pleasure and honour of representing my parliamentary group as shadow rapporteur, is in fact a step forward from the eu-turkey agreement signed in march 2016, a commitment that is being kept today on the issue of facilitating the resettlement of syrians hosted in turkey to europe. i think that the text we have examined in committee is perfectly balanced, thanks to the sensitivity of rapporteur keller and the other shadow rapporteurs, especially in the part where it eliminates the possibility for the member states to deduct the number of syrians resettled from turkey from the number of refugees that the member state had undertaken to host under the resettlement agreements from italy and greece, and in the part where it is hoped that resettlements will be able to cover, as rapporteur keller also mentioned, not only syrians but also eritreans, iraqis and afghans, in order to make the resettlement mechanism more effective. that is why i think that this text must be approved. but let me make one further consideration: i believe that the eu-turkey agreement was a necessary choice which is producing excellent results on the issue of the containment of balkan trafficking, if it is true, as it is true, that landings in greece have decreased by 90%. i hope that europe will show the same determination and efficiency in containing the mediterranean trade, where, on the contrary, there has been a simultaneous increase in incoming flows, as was physiological for it to happen. on the subject of relocations, which the commissioner has mentioned, the data we have so far are not very encouraging: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not affected by the new situation. that is why i hope that the tide will turn on this issue and that europe will prove itself up to the challenge of history.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report. i would like to draw attention to the legal basis of the proposal. it is not the first time that the commission has tried to exclude parliament on the pretext of the emergency situation linked to the sudden influx of refugees. the other example is the agreement with turkey. but the inflows have not been sudden for some time, so there is no reason why parliament should not be fully involved as a co-legislator. i therefore ask you to consider my amendment. it points out that the legal basis of the proposal - article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union - should be replaced by article 78 (2), which fully involves parliament. it seems to me a good way of putting an end to the undemocratic state of emergency on the subject of refugees.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, only just over 4 000 of the 160 000 refugees planned have been resettled in other countries of the european union from greece and italy to date: we have seen yet another european failure in managing migration flows. the failure to respect the commitments made by the member states for the redistribution of asylum seekers from greece and italy demonstrates the lack of political will to respect the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility as provided for in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in these two countries, which are the first to join the european union, the reception system continues to have enormous problems. now they want to sacrifice a share of the relocation in favour of the resettlement provided for in the eu-turkey agreement, further developing the supposed internal solidarity between the member states. this questionable and blackmailing agreement, the fruit of a desperate and unsuccessful attempt to stop the flow of migrants to europe, must not allow relocation and resettlement to be implemented at the expense of each other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as an italian i thank you for your closeness and your continued presence in the most difficult moments in our country. we are also close to it because of all the difficulties it has with the member states, with the selfishness of the member states. you see, solidarity can't just be one way. the centre of italy has recently been struck by an earthquake and so we have a duty first of all to help our italians. i find myself in a difficult situation when, in front of a person who has lost his house, who has lost everything in an earthquake, we have to place him in a tent, because the other structures are occupied by illegal immigrants. so this means that europe, all the more so, must take care of the refugees and illegal immigrants, because in italy we can no longer do it, we must think first of the italians. we fully understand that those who are fleeing the war should be welcomed throughout europe, but those who have come illegally must return to their own countries. do we vote for funds to rebuild the african economy? fine, but if these countries don't take back their citizens, then stop the trade deals. the same applies to the member states: i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the process of repatriation. i would like to conclude by asking you, commissioner, to make a visit to como and to ventimiglia. como is famous for its beauty. well, now it's history because it's affected and it's invaded by refugees and illegal immigrants because they closed the borders. same with ventimiglia. this is not europe and we ask you to intervene. the rapporteur agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. first of all, we, as italy, have never allowed ourselves and would never think of building a wall, this is the meaning we give to the concept of solidarity. we welcome and rescue people, but we ask for the same solidarity from europe and the other member states, otherwise they will not take european funds. you're in europe, for better or for worse.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the scale of the migration phenomenon has reached worrying levels, especially in the member states of first entry. the relocation plan must therefore be implemented in order to react quickly to the difficult humanitarian situation in greece and to prevent the deterioration of the situation in italy, where large numbers of migrants continue to arrive every day. i therefore thank the rapporteur for insisting on the need for member states to honour previously made commitments on relocation, making the agreed places available rapidly to reach a rate of about 6 000 relocations per month, whereas unfortunately we know today that member states have made available only 7% of the number of places envisaged. this situation is particularly serious in relation to the situation of unaccompanied foreign minors, who should always have priority, and therefore should also have priority in this case. it is essential that the european union manages the migration crisis by implementing solidarity measures in accordance with a system of shared responsibility by all member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the ska keller report. i would like to make a special appeal not to confuse the instruments of internal and external solidarity. president juncker, in his state of the union address this morning, also mentioned that solidarity is an important tool and therefore called on all member states to reduce their differences in the reception of refugees, in particular with regard to minors, unaccompanied minors and women. i would like to make a call today, which concerns all the member states, to overcome their selfishness. all this must be done for the benefit of italy and greece, so that they are not left to their own devices. so today we must direct all our efforts to asking all the member states to show solidarity among themselves.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner thyssen, and the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me on this report, i appreciate the presence of commissioner thyssen, but i shall be speaking tonight to an empty chair, that of the council, to which these indications are or should be addressed, because it is the council which should, after hearing our opinion, take them into account. last year we did this, we worked on what was a common vision of employment and social policies for the benefit of the citizens, and instead the council has been highly disinterested in it, it has spookyly pretended that we do not exist and do not represent 500 million citizens. in this case i thank my colleagues who have agreed to re-submit the same recommendations with me for the second time, because in their confusion the council simply wanted to return to its initial positions. we are here for the second time, and perhaps we will be here again next year or in two years' time, to ask to be heard as representatives of 500 million citizens, because we are constantly interacting with them, we know what their suffering is, because suffering is what we talk about when we talk about the citizens of europe: the council's arrogance, presumption and arrogance, which does not care what we say, and does the exact opposite, with the clear and obvious result - because you all see it in your countries - that the objectives of the strategy 2020 to reduce poverty have tragically failed. we had to reduce poverty and in fact we have reached 200 million poor citizens in europe, with an increase of 5 million poor people in recent years. and instead of listening to us and understanding that there are essential and indispensable policies to help them, there is an empty chair, and they should be ashamed that they do not fill that chair and do not listen to what we have to say! last year we gave many directions, this year they are exactly the same: social protection, employment policies with public investment to restart the economy, social assistance, minimum income policies to guarantee support for poor families, minimum wage... we said a thousand important things, none of which were taken into account. fellas, thank you for supporting me on this, and thank you, council, wherever you are.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like many of my colleagues i am forced to point out that the european parliament is deeply dissatisfied with the behaviour of the member states. the lisbon treaty introduces a mechanism which is intended to serve as a means of coordinating the policies governing the functioning of the european labour market. the guidelines we are putting forward improve the quality of this synergy and reinforce its content with ambitious but widely shared proposals in this hearing, aimed at creating a more cohesive and integrated european labour market, reducing levels of unemployment and social exclusion, ensuring decent working conditions and introducing a proposal for a guaranteed minimum income scheme. the council's short-term thinking must be abandoned and the social europe, one of the dimensions which must be strengthened if the process of european integration is to be relaunched, must be supported with more community methods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the rapporteur, laura agea, not for the form but for the substance of the report, which together with my colleagues has drawn up a report which precisely describes the difficult employment and economic situation in europe, outlining the critical points but at the same time indicating paths, proposals and new priorities. this report not only claims the legitimate role of parliament, but it also very clearly reiterates that ordinary measures are not enough, that it is time to integrate employment and social targets in a concrete and ambitious way into macroeconomic procedures, that it is time to introduce appropriate forms of protection against social dumping, as demonstrated by the recent incidents affecting many workers and businesses. last year the council did not take parliament's suggestions into account and this year it is not doing well, because it is not even present. i would like to ask the commissioner, whom i thank for her presence, to take up the lines and indications of this report, just as i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that parliament will take this report into account when it prepares the proposal for a reform of company law in the coming days, because through it too parliament can influence social, economic and employment policies.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the colleagues and rapporteurs who have worked with me and who have supported the commitment to re-submit the guidelines to the council. i thank commissioner thyssen for respecting this parliament, as she always has, by participating, listening and being in a listening position, which the council has denied us. the world changes by example, not by words. i think that in this text, for two years, we say beautiful things, beautiful words. the task of turning those words into concrete and really effective acts now lies with you, commissioner, and you, commissioner, together with the council. the member states must act effectively and immediately to provide relief for the 120 million citizens who are now living below the poverty line, but also to provide a better quality of life for all the people of the european union, showing that this european union has meaning. we are rebuilding europe today, or trying to rebuild it, but we are rebuilding it on its ruins, and that is obvious and undeniable. we have a commitment, a fundamental task. it is true that we must be united and aware, but we must also be able to roll up our sleeves, have the courage to face reality and decide that what we have to do we should have done yesterday, we have not done it, we start doing it now with a specific commitment. take the responsibility to find one single point in those recommendations and tell the council that it must implement that point in six months' time, because we need to see concrete actions that change the reality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to receive and impart information is an important pillar of european policy. a universal postal service of high quality and accessible conditions should be ensured, particularly in the case of the frequency of distribution and collection of mail. the most remote and sparsely populated areas deserve special mention, as the provision of the service in these places is crucial for reasons of social cohesion. the need to ensure, in the presence of exceptional circumstances, an adequate margin of flexibility to preserve the sustainability of the service by adapting it to new user needs and recent market developments is not denied. this is, however, subject to the role and function of the universal service, which is characterized by the primacy of the public interest, not being diminished. the strategic role that the new digital technologies have to play in this context is of fundamental importance, offering a fair balance between flexibility and the right to information.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the emphasis he has placed on the importance of universal service in his report. the daily delivery of mail is part of the quality of life, not only in the cities and where many people live, but also in the villages and in remote areas where fewer people live. and the exceptions that are already provided for today must be handled with great care, and generosity is absolutely out of place. i would remind you that the member state i come from - italy - has introduced a scheme which allows 20% of the population to be exempted from universal service. this means that in my region, for example, only a handful of the 116 municipalities are still covered by universal service. everyone else is looking the other way, hoping for a delivery every other day. well, if the telephone bill or the electricity bill comes a day later, that's not a problem, but if the newspaper from yesterday arrives, it is indeed a problem. there's nothing older than the newspaper of the day before. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the postal services are able to provide this service. finally, postal delivery is a public service and should be treated as such.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the priority of the commission is to boost jobs and growth. smes are a crucial focus of this effort. i am pleased to have a chance to discuss how to improve smes’ access to finance in europe. improved access to finance for businesses is central to our capital markets union. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr karas and mr krasnodębski, and all the shadow rapporteurs for having taken a comprehensive look at the challenges faced by smes and for pointing to a number of helpful actions. today the commission has published a communication on the capital markets union (cmu), to which we remain fully committed. it is an important part of our agenda for growth and jobs in europe. as part of the cmu, we have already come forward with a number of actions which could help smes. these include proposals to overhaul the prospectus regime and make it easier for companies to raise funds on the public markets, to free up bank lending to the real economy we have defined simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, and we have revised the european venture capital funds regulation and the european social entrepreneurship funds regulation to strengthen venture capital markets and to support socially-minded investments. we welcome the support expressed in mr karas’ report for the revision, inter alia, of the financial services regulation, as well as a prospectus regulation. we need to progress quickly with the adoption of these initiatives. now it is time to cement these first cmu actions and to shift the focus to new priorities. we should accelerate progress where there is the greatest potential to deepen our capital markets, to improve competition and choice and to give businesses the certainty they need to invest across borders. i am thinking of measures to build a personal pensions market in the eu, to tackle the preferential-treatment tax systems and the question of debt compared to equity, to build a genuine single market in consumer financial services and to reform insolvency regimes to make it easier to restructure viable business debt and encourage innovation. we will soon be coming forward with proposals on the debt equity bias and insolvency regimes. we will also publish the retail finance action plan. this summer we launched a consultation to determine how best to support the creation of a personal pensions market. we will consider all options, including new legislation. in addition, the commission will shortly present a proposal on business restructuring and a second chance, in order to enable entrepreneurs to have a fresh start. we will also want to be bolder in certain areas. let us see what more can be done to promote sustainable finance. with this in mind, the commission is setting up an expert group to develop a more comprehensive strategy on sustainable finance, and we will look at how to create the right environment for the safe promotion of fin-tech throughout the eu. taken together the action in today’s cmu communication will increase the amount of financing available to companies of all sizes, including smes. it will build on all the good work done to support their financing under the european fund for strategic investment (efsi). the efsi, with more than 200 agreements with financial intermediaries, is already targeting some 200 000 smes in europe with equity and guarantees. nevertheless, bank lending remains a most important source of financing for smes. we will propose to expand the favourable capital treatment for loans to smes in the forthcoming review of the capital requirements regulation and directive. in the current economic context, we need the capital markets union more than ever, so let us accelerate our work. mr krasnodębski’s report highlights the need to cater for start-ups and smes better in the regulatory framework and to pursue supportive structural reforms. we share the report’s emphasis on skills. the new skills agenda seeks closer engagement with the business community including smes. supporting innovative start—ups is necessary, but entrepreneurship should also be an attractive option for under-represented and disadvantaged groups. access to microfinance could be one element in ensuring this. the commission shares your view that self-employment is not a panacea and that the quality of jobs is also of paramount consideration. we want to sustain an economy which guarantees rewarding and productive jobs for the workforce. we are addressing the issue of informal labour markets through the european platform on undeclared work. your report points to a range of aspects to be taken up in the preparation of the european pillar of social rights. in this respect, the situation of smes deserves our unflagging attention. i look forward to a productive debate.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said: small and mediumsized enterprises are the driving force of the european economy. among these, smes and micro-enterprises in the cultural and creative sectors play a key role in preserving and promoting europe's cultural and linguistic diversity and its specific savoir-faire. they account for as much as 4.5% of the european economy and employ 6.3 million people (a figure comparable to that of the banking and insurance sectors): the majority of these are young people aged 15 to 29. the very close link with the skills and historical traditions of the territories makes it difficult to transfer them. however, due to their inherent characteristics, including the lack of tangible collateral and the reliance on intangible assets, access to credit is particularly problematic. specific solutions are therefore needed, especially in this phase of digital transformation. it is therefore urgent and crucial to develop skills and competences - both within smes and micro-enterprises, and at the level of financial institutions - to adopt concrete solutions that correctly assess risks and the value of intangible assets, so as to consider intellectual property rights as real guarantees, hence bankability.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard almost all the positive speeches tonight from people who care about the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises. i am certainly glad to hear that. what i see, however, is that it is still difficult to understand what the real problem and the real limit of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe is. it's not access to credit. and once again, within the european union, people are choosing to look at the straw and ignore the beam that is sinking the industrial system, the system of small and mediumsized enterprises within the european union. this beam, this structural problem, has a very specific name: it's called the euro. it is the single european currency that is sinking small and mediumsized enterprises. the european central bank tells us this in its reports when it interviews small and mediumsized enterprises, which do not put the lack of access to credit at the top of their problems, but the lack of demand, the lack of customers, the lack of markets for their products. today the euro is causing a serious distortion of competition for small and mediumsized enterprises and again i am not explaining this to you, but the international monetary fund and the oecd are explaining it to us. they tell us something very simple to understand: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that in this competitive environment there is no future, the imbalances within the eurozone will widen more and more and small and mediumsized enterprises will continue to close. the european union's austerity measures, which have destroyed demand, reduced consumption and reduced incomes, have certainly not been a panacea for small and mediumsized enterprises. this is the real problem that europe today refuses to see! i refuse to participate in this game of bloodshed and i tell you one thing: do we really want to do something important for small and medium-sized businesses? there's only one thing left to do: the european monetary union is being dismantled.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt: the small and mediumsized enterprises system is the most effective lever for growth and development, because it enables us to achieve the most important of all objectives, that of promoting employment. support for small and medium-sized enterprises is therefore essential: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of vocational training in the community. we need fair tax policies, countercyclical measures, growth incentive policies, together with the promotion of instruments capable of making the process of employing the most vulnerable people even more effective. finally, we need more social responsibility, more corporate social responsibility, to combat precariousness by opening up new living and working spaces for all. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, support for small and mediumsized enterprises means promoting employment, particularly for young people, and it also means promoting social cohesion. to this end, targeted incentives for smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises should be activated and the recruitment of skilled labour and the training of employees should be facilitated. the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, which helps them with the knowledge and skills needed to start and run a business, needs to be further developed and publicised. we must also help people from vulnerable groups to set up small and mediumsized enterprises. the participation of immigrants in the world of selfemployment, for example, is a great opportunity for social integration. this human capital is still largely underused because of the difficulty of obtaining a work permit, discriminatory practices and tax and bureaucratic burdens, difficulties in accessing credit and still lack of stability of residence.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 1 of the italian constitution states that the italian republic is founded on work. our founding fathers were also the founding fathers of the european union, which was a community when it was born, but today the liberal policies pursued for years by this european union have led to the complete eradication of our welfare state. we have denied them their right to work and have driven 120 million european citizens into poverty. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate we are having this morning on the minimum income is one of the fundamental aspects of the state of the union: the european union must be a social europe, or the european project will be destroyed. as early as 20 october 2010, this parliament has been discussing the issue of the minimum income as a measure to combat poverty, i would add as a redistributive measure, as an anti-cyclical measure, as a measure to escape the blackmail of precariousness. the minimum income is not in contradiction with the possible definition of a labour standard and a minimum wage. i believe that a european directive on a minimum income is needed today more than ever, and the oral question has done well to raise this issue. we need a directive which starts to move towards that concrete utopia of an unconditional basic income, an income of self-determination which recognizes the right of all european men and women to exist and the recognition of work and activities, both productive and reproductive. we must change this europe and the minimum income is a first step in that direction.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs weber for her work. the directive was adopted 16 years ago and, whatever the state of implementation in those years, i believe that the work done is fundamental, because during that period the structural problems of the member states have created new inequalities. we have new segments of the population, especially within the labour market, who suffer from inequalities. for example, people who have been forced to increase their retirement age and who are discriminated against in some way because they do not have the right skills to adapt to the changing labour market, as well as those who, victims of the economic crisis, have lost their jobs at an age when it is very difficult to reintegrate into the labour market, so this is important. i think it is important to protect people who report discrimination in the workplace, and to ensure that they are given assistance when they do so, as an educational tool. and above all , i ask you: our constitutions - i believe all of them, mine in particular does so in article 3 - remind us that it is the duty of the state to remove all obstacles of any kind that generate inequality and impede freedom. so sometimes you have to take a step back, back to what it was, to take steps forward today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday morning president juncker said that despite the encouraging improvements, the question of employment remains a priority throughout europe. but there can be no sustainable employment growth if discrimination in access to employment and in the workplace is not also combated. fifteen years after the entry into force of the equal treatment in employment and working conditions directive, the unemployment rate for people with disabilities is still almost twice that of the general population. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities provides, after its adoption by the union, a good basis for the definition of the concept of disability itself as well as for the concepts of universal design of physical spaces and reasonable accommodation. in addition, a significant economic return is possible from investments in accessibility as well as a gain in terms of social inclusion. the member states must therefore do much more to make these reasonable solutions which already exist attractive.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of complete data makes it difficult for us to know whether the globalisation adjustment fund has been an effective instrument so far. for this reason, it is necessary that in future the commission should ensure public access to all documents relating to cases of assistance from the fund and provide complete information to enable it to be understood whether the training provided has been adapted to the economic prospects and labour market needs in the regions affected by the redundancies and what the expected and achieved results have been. in particular, it is necessary to be able to understand whether closures and redundancies are the result of relocating production to third countries or other member states which apply aggressive fiscal policies to attract investment. it is important that citizens do not pay for corporate profit-making, which is why we are asking the commission to consider a tool which would oblige companies moving production outside the eu to contribute to the reintegration measures for redundant workers.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the philippines.
author. – mr president, the situation in the philippines is extremely worrying, especially after the election of president duterte. he started with all kinds of provocations and insults, and this year became the protagonist of verbal attacks against the un, china, the president of the united states and the pope, with hate speeches instigating violence against suspected drug sellers and drug users. as a consequence of these promises and behaviour, according to the official information at our disposal, starting from the day of his election on 30 june 2016 until this month of september, 44 people have been killed every day – 2 927 in total – as a result of extrajudicial execution and lynching, following these hateful speeches. duterte is an elected president and in the near future he will play a fundamental role in the complex and delicate geopolitical balance of the south china sea between china, the united states and russia. with this resolution we ask the authorities to investigate and condemn the action of vigilance groups, and we urge the commission to use all available instruments to help the government in respecting its international human rights obligations. we have the duty to use all our means in order to block the rise of a new dictator and the consequences on human rights violations in the philippines.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this person who is now governing the philippines has promised to clean up the illegal drug trade in order to be elected, and i must say that a battle which is in itself just is in fact being fought by a hateful repression. the figures for killings and extrajudicial executions have already been mentioned by my colleagues; i would add to these the fact that the massive campaign against drug dealers and consumers has led to more than 15 000 arrests and has prompted more than half a million people to turn themselves in in the hope of receiving adequate medical treatment and immunity. i think it is right that this resolution should ask, by joining the voice and appeals of the activists, to signal the concern that this zero tolerance policy has been accompanied by gross violations of human rights. i am convinced, as are others, that the european union must review its position towards the philippines.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. strong condemnation of drug trafficking and abuse in the philippines is needed, stressing that illicit drugs are a threat to filipino youth and one of the most serious social problems. while welcoming the government's intention to reduce the high levels of crime and corruption in the country, it is necessary to adopt specific policies and programmes, including prevention and recovery measures, without focusing exclusively on violent repression, while also ensuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in addition, the authorities should launch an immediate, thorough, effective and impartial investigation into the extraordinarily high number of people killed during police operations, in order to identify all those responsible, bring them to a competent and impartial civil court and apply the criminal sanctions provided for by law, while ensuring adequate protection for human rights defenders, trade unionists and journalists. the eu must use all available tools to help the philippine government to comply with its international human rights obligations.
the agenda includes seven motions for resolutions on somalia.
author. – mr president, somalia’s long-running conflict situation continues to leave civilians dead, wounded and displaced in large numbers. in july the unhcr reported that forced evictions due to an ongoing military offensive resulted in almost 28 000 new displacements. international human rights and humanitarian organisations continue to report serious abuses against people living in informal displacement camps and in government-controlled areas, including rape and forced evictions. according to international human rights organisations and the un mission in somalia, journalists continue to be killed, threatened, arbitrarily detained and denied due process or fair trial guarantees. this is an issue of major concern, particularly given the fact that elections should take place very soon. we think that the european union should support any effort to protect the population. we should also assist the government of somalia in its work to build peace and stability. on the other hand, the eu should better monitor the situation in order ensure accountability for abuses committed, fair and timely elections and legal reforms in order to secure respect for human rights. we hope that this joint resolution can help in this.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the armed conflict that has been raging in somalia for some time is still causing enormous problems. despite the commitments made by the somali government, the continuing political instability prevents the country from initiating the necessary reform processes, especially in the area of justice and security. many journalists have been threatened and arrested in trials conducted in ways that are not in line with international law standards. in january 2016, the somali president signed a new media and information law that still contains several restrictions on freedom of expression. the need of the somali people for a free media is particularly important in view of the upcoming electoral process and it is therefore right to call for attention, including at international level, to the government of somalia to protect and protect journalists and to revise legislation so as to allow for effective freedom of the press and information, while respecting the right to freedom of expression and more generally the protection of human rights which have been largely neglected and long violated.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on eight motions for resolutions on zimbabwe.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for many years the people of zimbabwe have suffered under an authoritarian regime led by president mugabe, who has maintained his power through corruption, violence, rigged elections and the use of brutal apparatuses. the situation in zimbabwe is worsening today, with impunity for human rights violations. since june, dozens of public protests have been launched by civil society leaders across the country. the police responded with violent methods, indiscriminately using batons and tear gas. hundreds of people have been injured, arrested and charged with public violence. we cannot forget in this context that the government of zimbabwe and the european union jointly signed the national indicative programme and, as part of this joint cooperation strategy, the european union has allocated eur 234 million to zimbabwe as development assistance. i believe that the european union should monitor effectively the implementation of these funds to ensure that zimbabwe uses this sum in the areas envisaged, such as support for civil society, human rights and agriculture. we call for the early holding of regular elections in order to establish a pluralistic, prosperous and human rights-respecting democracy.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following a series of anti-government demonstrations in zimbabwe, president mugabe, who has been in power for 36 years, has adopted a severe repressive policy. fearing to lose power, he has already announced his intention to run in the 2018 presidential elections but it is difficult to imagine how he can complete a new term, which would end at the venerable age of 99. the president has also been accused of voluntarily cutting off food aid to rural areas most hostile to his policies and hit by the worst drought in a century. with this urgent resolution we call on zimbabwe to respect its international obligations and to guarantee the independence of the judiciary and freedom of demonstration. the european union can play a key role in this delicate phase by maintaining and, if necessary, strengthening the restrictive measures against persons and entities linked to the mugabe regime, at least until there is a political reversal aimed at protecting the population and respecting democratic principles and the rule of law.
i would like to remind the zimbabwean authorities, if necessary, of the content of article 96 of the cotonou agreement and the obligations it imposes on respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. i also recall the restrictive measures imposed on certain authorities, first and foremost president mugabe, who has been in office since 1980. we can no longer tolerate the violence with which the security forces systematically suppress any voice of dissent in the country. we are protesting against violence against women, arbitrary arrests, interference by the authorities, disappearances and arbitrary killings. the people of zimbabwe are demanding a peaceful and democratic transition based on free elections, the rotation of power and respect for human rights. we will be at your side to support you in the political dialogue with the authorities and to denounce any violation of democratic principles.
mr president, colleagues have already described the difficult situation in zimbabwe, and i would just like to add that for me there is a key point 7 in the resolution which clearly states that the lifting of sanctions against zimbabwe was premature and that the commission should reconsider how to impose sanctions on a regime whose horrors have been described in detail here. in short, and well, some of my colleagues have said it, helping the regime of the current president mugabe by sending some 200 million euros is wrong. the money doesn't go to the people who need the money anyway, it ends up in the hands of the regime's supporters and the mugabe family itself. so the important thing is point 7. i am therefore prepared to support this resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of zimbabwe, now collapsing, is facing a very serious economic crisis: the situation is particularly serious in rural areas, particularly those most hostile to president mugabe, who, according to the zimbabwe human rights commission, has decided to cut off food aid to some 4 million citizens who are suffering from drought and are unable to feed themselves. the country has been plagued by violent demonstrations over the economic and political situation for several months. the european union must condemn the government's blockade of aid to the people affected by the drought and check that the funds granted to zimbabwe are actually used for the sectors concerned. we must work for a peaceful transition of power in a democratic manner and with respect for human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. in anticipation of the vote and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of appointing sir julian king as commissioner for security of the union because i believe that the commissioner-designate has all the necessary qualifications to be able to fulfil his duties in an optimal way. sir julian king was appointed by the british government after jonathan hill resigned last june following the brexit vote. as commissioner for security, julian king will take forward the implementation of the european agenda on security and contribute to the creation of an effective and effective security union. he will work under the leadership of the commission's first vice-president, frans timmermans, and will support commissioner dimitris avramopoulos' work on migration, home affairs and citizenship. for the first time parliament is deciding on the suitability of a commissioner to work in brussels during the process of his country's exit from the eu. sir julian king, currently ambassador to france, is an expert on international and european relations. from 2009 to 2011, sir king served as ambassador to ireland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing sir julian king as the uk commissioner for the commission. congratulations on your appointment, and i wish you a good job.
in writing. - i can only applaud sir king's profile and say that i would vote in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to create a single model within the member states that ensures high technological and security standards for the production of return documents for irregular residents. as i believe that the introduction of a single model can increase the rate of return of irregular migrants in order to maintain the integrity of the common european asylum system and improve cooperation with third countries, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the halla-aho report on travel documents for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. a substantial review of the format and implementation of the eu standard travel document should be carried out rapidly in order to increase its recognition by third countries and ensure its greater effectiveness. harmonisation can not only lead to a reduction in red tape and costs but also allow for safe return, respecting the fundamental rights guaranteed by international treaties and the charter of nice, and safeguarding the health conditions of migrants. multilingual translation and new technological standards can be key tools to increase the use of the document and protect it from counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ a serious and concrete action plan must be found as soon as possible to repatriate the thousands of illegal immigrants in europe. although i share the report's objective, in that it calls for better cooperation with third countries to facilitate the return of illegal immigrants to their country, i do not agree with the eu being entrusted with the negotiation of return agreements with these countries, as i believe that this prerogative should be retained by the individual member states. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union must enforce its agreements with third countries on the return of irregular migrants: it is a question of justice for those who meet the conditions for being able to stay, of security for the overall maintenance of the reception system and of stability so as not to further damage the relationship of trust with the institutions. the european union cannot continue to be satisfied with the current rate of return of rejected asylum seekers. a substantial revision of the format and implementation of the eu standard travel document is necessary in order to increase its recognition by third countries and to ensure its effectiveness. by harmonizing the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting times, in the hope that the document will be more widely recognised by third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'travel documents for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals' today because i believe that the exceptional wave of migration that has swept europe is bringing us face to face with age-old problems which, however, given the emergency situation, require urgent, concrete responses, but above all in line with eu legislation. one of these is undoubtedly the mechanisms for returning thirdcountry nationals. this is a delicate matter which must be dealt with with a certain amount of rationality, without ever losing sight of the strict respect for the rights of these people. an effective and credible return policy goes hand in hand with a more open migration policy. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of returnees to the member states, the number of persons who are to be returned to the member states and the number of persons who are to be returned to the member states. increasing the rate of return of irregular migrants certainly allows for the release of reception capacity for those who really need protection. this must be the main objective of the european union, in the respect of the law, but above all in the reception and assistance of all those who are fleeing from war, famine and persecution.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the introduction of a single eu-wide model for the return of those who do not qualify for international protection. this would facilitate uniformity of treatment and bureaucracy, and thus also facilitate relations with third countries which would be faced with the same type of travel documents. in fact, many third countries now often refuse to accept return documents issued by member states because of their poor quality. finally, this would help to protect against the risk of false or counterfeit documents. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour is justified not only by the devastating migration crisis faced by our country mainly with its own resources, but also by the hope that full harmonisation of the union's migration policies can constitute an effective and resilient system to increase recognition rates by third countries. the council recommendation of 30 november 1994, now repealed, provided for the introduction of a standard travel document. however, it has never been uniformly established in the union, and has led to different ways of working which are likely to exacerbate the phenomenon. we must indeed be able to tackle common problems together, but to do so we need eu instruments with the same format and the same technical specificities, so that each member state can reduce red tape, waiting times for returnees and the associated costs. at the same time, this would simplify relations with non-eu countries by means of effective recognition and faster readmission of the citizen. in view of the increased efforts made by the countries concerned to ensure that the new european travel document can operate, the union is committed to establishing a harmonised, clear format that makes the exchange of information easy and secure.
in writing. - they already call it the "great wall of calais". after austria, london has also thought it wise to have a concrete barrier of two kilometres in length in the hope of limiting the flow of migrants. but is it really worthwhile to take such action which is totally contrary to the principle of solidarity? would it not be better to speed up the process of creating a genuine european strategy on immigration, with the structuring of a more coherent return policy as a priority? without a serious policy of development cooperation, in which europe must play a leading role, we shall condemn a part of the world to a certain and inevitable destiny of poverty and despair. the european travel document will increase the rate of return of irregular migrants, harmonise technical specifications to prevent counterfeiting and forgery, and resolve differences between states in the acceptance of the travel document, while ensuring the exchange of information between states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, as part of better cooperation on return and readmission with the main countries of origin and transit. the current travel document for the return of third-country nationals, established by the council recommendation of 30 november 1994, is not accepted by all third countries because of the inadequacy of its security standards, which hinders the execution of returns under the readmission agreements of the eu or its member states with third countries and thus the proper functioning of european migration policy. this report addresses the current situation by proposing a uniform system at european level for the travel document allowing for return to third countries, in accordance with the technical specifications already established by regulation (ec) no 333/2002.
in writing. the harmonisation of the format and technical specifications of the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is intended to facilitate the recognition of this document by third countries for the purposes of return and readmission. the aim of facilitating the successful completion of administrative procedures and reducing red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting times is fully acceptable.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's biggest challenges today is the effectiveness of the common european asylum system, which is still too weak and slow to deal with the deep refugee crisis. i voted in favour of issuing a travel document for the return of those who do not meet the requirements for international protection within the european union. it is a very important instrument which will speed up the procedures for reception and expulsion, but above all it will make it possible to avoid uncontrolled and unmanageable immigration with disastrous consequences for our countries, starting with italy. the european union must respond with all the instruments at its disposal and prevent the collapse of our reception system.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report because, despite some good ideas, i am not very much in favour of the eu's primacy over the member states.
in writing. ‒ this is a very relevant and important proposal that tackles one of the most pressing issues that the eu is currently facing, namely the readmission of illegal immigrants. the document proposed by the commission would establish a common format with high security and safeguards against falsification. this is something very necessary, which will make the associated administrative work more efficient. the report highlights the fact that, in eu negotiations with third countries, readmission agreements should take precedence over bilateral agreements – something that would guarantee more effective implementation of readmission agreements. this is a very important report and a necessary step to protect the integrity of our union and the safety of our societies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals because i believe that a single format and system for all member states will ensure that return operations are carried out safely, protecting the health and fundamental rights of migrants. in 2014, more than 60% of the measures to return migrants to their country of origin were not implemented, even in cases of voluntary decisions. the european agenda on migration lacks a system that would allow for genuine and loyal cooperation between eu countries and the countries of origin of migrants, who often refuse to take in their own citizens without recognising their documents. the obligation to recognise and accept a european document with a single format, written in the language of the state of return and translated into french, english and the language of the country of origin, with a photo identification system and anti-counterfeiting technology is therefore the appropriate instrument to solve this problem and allows the protection of the migrant himself to be improved.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this regulation does not deal with the substance of return decisions taken by individual member states. we are simply establishing a more secure and uniform european travel document for the return of illegally staying third country nationals, the purpose of which is to help facilitate the return and readmission of these nationals to their country of origin. we have provided for harmonised reporting templates which will use security standards to prevent counterfeiting and forgery and which will ultimately also help to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden for member states and for the authorities of third countries. it is not a question, as some members have already said in this house, of endorsing common return policies, but simply of moving towards the recognition of harmonised documents which are valid and recognised by all member states. the return decision is not a legal document, but a legal document which is valid for the purpose of returning a third-country national to the territory of the member state of which he is a national.
in writing. this report addresses the issue of the return of migrants whose stay is found to be irregular, which is a practical one and one of our priorities. providing for the reinforcement of the rate of return of irregular migrants is essential for the integrity of the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries to maintain the trust of european citizens. at present, many third countries are not willing to accept return documents issued by eu member states because of their poor quality, and the need to ensure adequate technological and security standards to mitigate or eradicate counterfeiting and forgery. a long-term solution is therefore needed to stabilise the current migrant crisis, to ease pressure on member states and union agencies and to increase eu capacity and resources. i think it is my duty to express my approval of the report.
in writing. – the european union gladly welcomes third-country nationals as long as they have passports from visa- exempt countries or visas from those which do not qualify for a waiver. i have a concern about foreigners illegally staying in any of the member states and not under refugee status, for the eu might not be able to guarantee the well-being of those who decide to overstay. therefore, i voted in favour of the report to express my wish to take action on the matter.
in writing. ‒ recognising the growing concerns and need for security of citizens, i would express my positive opinion on the proposed text.
in writing. ‒ current rates of return are totally inadequate. without swift and certain returns, neither the schengen area nor the common european asylum system will ever be able to cope with the burden of migratory flows. a substantial revision of the eu standard travel document is necessary in order to increase its recognition by third countries. by harmonising the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting times. it is also crucial to ensure the exchange of information between member states regarding the issuing of travel documents and third-country nationals found to be staying illegally and not in possession of a valid travel document, in order to increase the mutual recognition of asylum decisions across the eu and to avoid secondary movements of rejected asylum seekers. i believe that the management of irregular migration flows, in particular the implementation of return orders, is an issue on which the eu is playing its credibility both on the international stage and in the eyes of its own citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the report aims to provide this document to non-eu nationals who are subject to a return decision, thereby ensuring a uniform model for all member states and preventing countries of origin from refusing to take back such nationals by not recognising their documentation. in addition, this document will be issued only to persons whose nationality has been identified, and in no case to persons whose nationality is unknown. the text also stresses the importance of respect for the fundamental rights of the eu charter, in particular dignity and protection in the event of removal, expulsion or extradition, in return procedures.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation we have approved today aims to introduce a single model to be used in all member states to facilitate the return of those who do not qualify for international protection within the eu. the commission intends to use a single model to increase the rate of return of irregular migrants in order to maintain the integrity of the common european asylum system and to improve cooperation with third countries. to this end, it has become necessary to substantially revise the format and implementation of the eu standard travel document in order to increase its recognition by third countries. by harmonizing the format of the travel document, member states will reduce red tape, discrepancies, costs and waiting times, in the hope that the document will be more widely recognised by third countries. at present, many of these countries are not willing to accept return documents issued by eu member states because of their poor quality. the eu must certainly ensure higher technological and safety standards, particularly as regards protection against the risk of counterfeiting and falsification.
in writing. ‒ the ježek report, which i supported today, approves the revision of the european regulation on the prospectus to be published for the offer of securities to the public or admission to trading. this regulation constitutes an essential step towards the completion of the capital markets union, as already indicated by the commission, the european parliament and the council. the proposed amendments aim to fully harmonise the rules on prospectuses and define more precise european rules for the protection of investors. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the granting of such authorisation. these measures will help smes to access the capital market more easily and increase their chances of obtaining financing. the reduction of the fragmentation of existing practices in the eu has many positive aspects and is a key step towards a genuine integration of the capital market. this is a necessary measure at a time when institutional investors are faced with the low interest rates that characterise the european economy.
in writing. ‒ investor protection through market transparency seems to be the focus of this report. however, given that nothing has been done to date to reimburse the savings of citizens who have been defrauded by the banks since the bail-in mechanism came into force, i cannot fully agree with this text. i therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the prospectus to be published for the offer to the public or admission to trading of securities. this regulation is a necessary step towards the completion of the union of markets. the objective of the capital markets union is to help companies raise capital from multiple sources of funding. this requires making markets more efficient and providing investors and savers with more opportunities to help boost growth and create jobs. disclosure of information about the offer of securities to the public or their trading on a regulated market is essential to protect investors. disclosure of information is necessary to enable investors to make informed investment decisions and thus to ensure their protection. in addition, information is an effective tool for building confidence in securities. the publication of a prospectus may be the right solution to make the information in question available to the public.
in writing. - i voted against this text: while the revision of the regulation aims to harmonise disclosure requirements at european level in relation to the offer of securities to the public or their admission to trading, as a means of increasing the transparency, adequacy and comparability of information on securities and ensuring greater investor protection, such a revision should have in my view strengthened the current disclosure rules and broadened their scope with respect to the markets, products and investors involved. on the contrary, this commission proposal weakens the rules and introduces a great many unjustified exemptions. the disclosure requirements for some entities have been relaxed and, moreover, entire market segments and entities have been excluded from the scope of the regulation, thus undermining the completeness and accuracy of information on the risks associated with investments. for these reasons, my vote was against.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report because i strongly believe that investors should be able to know better the conditions offered by financial intermediaries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the protection of savings is a constitutional right and everyone must have free access to what concerns him. the subject matter of the public savings call has elements of internationality, and thus becomes potentially susceptible to evaluation by a plurality of authorities. this raises inevitable doubts as to the interpretation of the law, since the national laws on this subject are often different. the aim of this perspective is therefore to make arrangements for the full implementation of the capital markets union, allowing effective and secure access for firms to these forms of financing. this is the only way to boost growth (especially that of our smes) and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the regulation on the prospectus to be published for the offer of securities to the public or admission to trading constitutes one of the cornerstones of the completion of the capital markets union. with the report adopted today, the european parliament is relaunching this vital and ambitious project and clarifying its position on what is an essential tool to inform european citizens when they decide to invest in financial markets: the prospectus. i voted in favour of the report because it promotes full harmonization of the rules on prospectuses and sets out more precise european rules for the protection of investors. it also undertakes to reduce the administrative burden and legal costs of drawing up the prospectus for issuers, in particular smes, so as to enable them to access the capital market more easily and to increase their chances of obtaining financing. the european union has a duty to provide all the tools and information to help citizen-investors make informed and fully informed choices, based on the information in the prospectus, without imposing an undue burden on companies that decide to place financial instruments on the markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the proposal for a regulation on the prospectus to be published for the offer to the public or admission to trading of securities, as i believe that it constitutes a further step towards an integrated single market for financial services. i think the amendments made by the ep improve the commission's proposal. i agree that the prospectus drawn up under this regulation should contain the relevant and necessary information in relation to an investment in securities that an investor would reasonably need to make an informed assessment of the financial and asset position, profits and losses and prospects of the issuer and any guarantors, as well as the rights attaching to the securities. such information should be compiled and presented in an easily analysable form. similarly, the summary should contain a clear warning highlighting the risks, in particular for retail investors, in the case of securities issued by banks subject to bail-in under directive 2014/59/eu. finally, i welcome the incorporation of proportionality principles and criteria, taking into account the different sizes of the eu's financial markets, and the possibility for member states to provide for lower thresholds.
in writing. the current prospectus contains the information necessary for investors to make informed investment decisions. in the area of capital markets, the commission envisaged revising the prospectus directive to make it easier and cheaper for companies to raise capital and to provide clear information for potential investors. the current directive 2003/71/ec harmonises the rules for making prospectuses public when companies wish to raise capital by listing on a stock exchange or by offering investment opportunities to the general public. in order to be able to make an informed decision, it is essential for investors to have access to adequate information. for these reasons i am happy to approve and support the decision taken by parliament.
in writing. ‒ member states must commit to sharing responsibility for relocating the 160 000 asylum seekers from greece and italy. they must step up their efforts to make the european relocation scheme work better. the transformation of resettlement places into resettlement places for refugees from turkey, a key point of the eu agreement, does not appear to be the best way for the proper implementation of the resettlement scheme. i am convinced that, in the interests of european solidarity, each member state must respect the agreements by taking in the number of refugees it is responsible for, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the prolonged migration crisis is making more and more evident the efforts that countries such as greece and italy put in place on a daily basis to manage the influx of thousands of migrants who land on europe's shores fleeing poverty and conflict. the keller report, which i strongly supported, tackles the problem of asylum and temporary measures for the benefit of italy and greece by amending the proposal originally put forward by the commission. the european parliament has rejected a provision to use the 54 000 places originally allocated for the relocation of asylum seekers from greece and italy to other eu member states for the resettlement of syrian refugees from turkey to the eu. the proposed intra-union relocation scheme should not be confused with the commission's proposed relocation scheme for non-eu countries. the two mediterranean countries are facing a complex situation which is likely to deteriorate. it is urgent that all member states act to fulfil the promise to relocate 160 000 asylum seekers within two years. the european union must demonstrate that there is a real bond of solidarity between the states, and its future depends on this.
in writing. ‒ one year after the eu's relocation and resettlement mechanism came into force, the numbers have shown that we in the league were right. even the eu leaders had to admit that it was a complete failure: of the 160 000 relocations planned by 2017 to alleviate the immigration emergency in italy and greece, only just over 3 000 have been carried out to date. however, this report insists that the failure of this mechanism is the fault of the member states and not the eu, which with its insane policies does nothing to stop the invasion of illegal immigrants in italy. for all these reasons i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, and on the eve of the bratislava summit, parliament reiterates once again that member states must respect the commitments they have made on the relocation of refugees to frontline countries such as italy and greece. the rapporteur rightly pointed out that the relocation scheme is a genuine instrument of solidarity, which should be strengthened and not weakened if possible. we are far from the figure of 160 000 refugees to be resettled some member states have not taken in a single refugee and while disembarkations continue in italy, it would be misleading, as the report points out, to include in this figure 54 000 refugees who would be resettled from turkey to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the human tragedy unfolding in the mediterranean cannot leave us indifferent. more than three thousand people have lost their lives since the beginning of this year trying to reach european shores. european costs, that is what this is about, because the phenomenon of migration does not only affect italy and greece but all of us. it is a common theme, which requires common responses. we need to increase the number of people to be relocated and support the italian and greek authorities who are struggling to manage this great challenge of the 21st century: it is not just a question of solidarity, it is also a question of foresight. no wall has ever stopped the great migrations of history, and our indifference will in no way stop the wars and poverty that cause these people to flee. the european union must practice its fundamental principles of solidarity and protection for those in need, and of unity and common action among its member states. and you have to do it now.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and extensive debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision establishing temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the plight of migrants is clear to all: we're not doing enough to relocate them. the numbers are all against us. i am very concerned that attempts to manage the refugee crisis are highlighting a utopian goal that is hard to achieve, with an obligation to do more and faster, responding to the humanitarian emergency in greece and preventing a deterioration of the situation in italy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ last year, at the height of the so-called refugee crisis, the council decided, despite the opposition of some states, to relocate 160 000 refugees from greece and italy to other member states. the proposal calls for one third of the total number of refugees to be resettled (54 000) to be used for the implementation of the eu-turkey agreement; the member states had failed to agree on the increase in relocations following the agreement. however, most member states are not meeting their commitments and reception centres continue to be overcrowded, especially in greece. the report by my colleague rightly distinguishes between the posts devoted to resettlement and those required for the implementation of the agreement with turkey, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i can only welcome the keller report, hoping that it can help our country in the face of the devastating and exhausting migration crisis. i very much appreciate that the agreements between the union and turkey clearly specify the essential differences between resettlement and relocation and the conditions for resettlement. although these are two forms of transfer of asylum seekers, they are quite distinct in that the former is carried out with a country outside the community, whereas the latter occurs between two member states. i support the clarification of the conditions for relocation: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european asylum support office (easo) for asylum seekers from greece and italy. suffice it to say that as of 5/6/2016 only 793 people present in italy have been relocated compared to the expected 12764 people. i very much hope that by the end of the year we will be able to see a more substantial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ it is urgent that member states honour their commitments to prevent the deterioration of the conditions of refugees in the countries of arrival, by working together efficiently to reduce the pressure on states such as italy and greece and thus to move quickly and create more safe and legal pathways. we cannot remain shortsighted in the face of this humanitarian emergency, and we cannot act with the slowness we have shown so far. progress, as the commission said last may, is unsatisfactory. to date, member states have made available only 7% of the number of places for relocation and according to the '5th ec report on resettlement and settlement', from 14 june to 11 july, at least in italy, only 66 people were relocated compared to 186 in the previous period and only 6 minors. in italy we are also working hard to create additional hotspots, because 1,600 is not enough. but it requires the cooperation of all the member states.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, i intend to support the amendments proposed by the european parliament to the commission text amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. in particular, i support the deletion of amendment 20 allowing for the reduction of the obligations on the relocation of asylum seekers for member states which take in syrian nationals in turkey on the basis of resettlement schemes other than temporary and exceptional relocation from italy and greece, as decided by the council on 20 july 2015. i believe that this amendment goes against the ratio of asylum measures to the benefit of the countries most affected by the arrival of asylum seekers, creating a risky legal precedent that justifies the reduction of the relocation obligations for member states established by the council in july 2015. moreover, i believe that reception on the basis of resettlement cannot replace the relocation mechanism which expresses the internal solidarity between member states and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to managing flows of people seeking international protection.
in writing. ‒ although the council decided in 2015 to transfer thousands of asylum seekers from italy and greece to other member states, only a small proportion has been relocated so far. i therefore strongly supported the adoption of this decision, in which parliament expresses the importance of greater cooperation between eu countries on immigration, stressing above all the need to fully comply with the obligations relating to a fair and solidary distribution of quotas of asylum seekers, in order to alleviate the immense efforts made by countries which are geographically at the forefront of the migration crisis, such as italy. migration is a problem affecting not only europe's southern borders but europe as a whole. it is therefore essential that cooperation be swift and substantial in order to prevent the deterioration of the situation on the mediterranean front.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on temporary measures for the benefit of italy and greece as regards asylum policies, as it is becoming increasingly necessary for all member states to become aware of the emergency situation which now characterises the countries at the forefront of managing migration flows. the member states must honour their commitments and relocate the 160 000 asylum seekers from greece and italy in accordance with the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. there is no room for negotiations which sacrifice a third of the refugees to be relocated in favour of the resettlement provided for in the eu-turkey agreement.
in writing. resettlement should not be at the expense of relocation. both are important instruments of solidarity. as m5s we believe that member states should uphold their commitments regarding the sharing of responsibility for relocating the 160,000 asylum seekers from greece and italy. to this end, efforts must be stepped up and the european relocation scheme must be made operational, as the member states' lack of political will to respect the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility has been demonstrated. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it specifically stresses that the migrant emergency in italy will remain high, also noting the need to relocate a certain number of refugees from italy and greece to other member states. i believe that the european union can only tackle this enormous migration emergency with a long-term approach based on respect for human rights, combating irregular immigration and welcoming migrants who can find a solution in the national employment system.
in writing. ‒ i vote against because the relocation and resettlement plan has been a failure.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the basis of the necessity of support for italy and greece. italy is under huge pressure from the large migration flows from libya, and the current systems to help us are not working at all. one hopeful and important aspect of the report is the point made in it that resettlement from third countries should not take place at the expense of relocation within the eu. i also think it is important that the report calls out the limited numbers of committed relocation places. as of 5 june 2016, only 793 persons had been relocated from italy. i therefore support the report’s call for member states to make one third of their relocation places available by 31 december 2016, and i hope this will be done automatically if the member state does not agree.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank mrs keller for completing the legislative work on such a sensitive and crucial issue for the change we all want in eu migration policies. in our vote we are reaffirming the position expressed by the libe committee and parliament in plenary in recent months: solidarity between member states is essential to deal with such large migratory flows and to support the efforts of countries at the forefront of the emergency, such as italy and greece. as we know, many member states are still seriously lagging behind in meeting their obligations to welcome refugees, which is a moral obligation, but also a legal one, as today's text rightly emphasizes again and as i have been very convinced to support.
in writing. ‒ solidarity is the key principle that should govern the development of immigration and asylum policies. solidarity both internally, between the member states of the union, and externally, towards the third countries hosting the majority of refugees. the european parliament voted to extend the mandate of the european ombudsman to include the european ombudsman in the new european ombudsman's role. we therefore urge the member states to honour the commitments made in previous decisions and to ensure the rapid relocation of 54,000 applicants for international protection. we also call for the speedy treatment of the cases of vulnerable people, especially children, so that they can be reunited with their families. we are not only guaranteeing the right to relocate syrians, eritreans and iraqis, but we are also including afghans among those entitled to relocate. the efforts made so far are ridiculous: we cannot accept that only 7% of the number of relocation places have actually been allocated to date. the situation is becoming more critical for italy and greece every day and, given the high number of asylum seekers arriving mainly in italy, the need for emergency relocation places is expected to remain high.
in writing. – it should be the european union’s moral duty to assist asylum seekers reaching italy and greece, as these countries have declared a state of emergency. no member state should take a hands-off approach because failing to assist is against what the eu believes in. eu countries are encouraged to be as cooperative as possible, especially in relation to border control. i want to highlight the importance of travel documents to identify those reaching greek and italian coasts, because only by identifying them will we be able to assist more effectively in the relocation of migrants. italy and greece, as core members of the eu, should not have to battle alone to cope with the hundreds of asylum seekers arriving every day.
in writing. ‒ it has been a year since pope francis, on 6 september 2015, invited parishes, religious communities, monasteries and shrines across europe to welcome a refugee family in preparation for the holy year of mercy. the european union has tried to respond, through the commission and parliament, and at the instigation of some member states, by proposing solutions in support of a solidarity approach to the humanitarian emergency. however, a genuine rethinking of the dublin regulation and a sharing of responsibility have not yet been achieved. the partial relocation mechanisms proposed by the council, which provide for aid to the two most exposed countries, italy and greece, have been only partially complied with. meanwhile, the number of landings, although slightly decreased, continues to record very high figures: in 2016 alone, 281,055 people have already landed in italy and greece. i therefore support the report by the libe committee, which stresses the need for a mandatory allocation of migrants between member states, based on a quota system. only in this way will it be possible to develop a system of genuine solidarity between member states and to create a genuine european asylum system.
in writing. ‒ given the need to increase solidarity between member states, strengthen integration for border management and help prevent crisis situations at the external borders of the union, i welcome the report on temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. our group has worked hard to produce a report which can stimulate the debate further and which calls primarily for more action by european leaders. the proposal responds to the need to ensure an adequate redistribution of migrants arriving on european shores among all member states. the commission notes that the european council has adopted a number of decisions on the basis of the 'european year of citizens' and 'european year of citizens' in order to promote the integration of citizens of third countries into the union. as of 5 july 2015, only 793 persons from italy and 33 from greece have been transferred; the council has not yet decided on the matter. it is therefore necessary to work to ensure that the redistribution mechanisms start to work and that, as agreed, there are 5,680 asylum seekers transferred every month.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to allocate 54,000 quotas initially allocated for resettlement from italy and greece to the resettlement programme for syrian refugees from turkey, as provided for in the eu-turkey declaration, cannot be shared by those who, like me, believe that a valid response to the refugee crisis can only be based on a solidarity approach between all member states. although i believe that the european union should comply with the clause in the agreement with turkey that for every person relocated from greece there should be a corresponding person resettled from turkey to european territory, i do not support the idea that italy and greece, already subject to unprecedented migratory pressure, should be penalized further. for the reasons i have just given, i have decided to vote in favour of the keller report, which, thanks to the will of several political groups, rejects the proposal to exchange 54,000 quotas for resettlement from italy and greece for quotas for resettlement from turkey. the text also conveys the urgency of making the relocation programme a truly effective instrument, capable of bringing about a real reduction in the burden borne by the border states.
in writing. ‒ as a southerner, an italian and a european, i urge you to vote in favour of this text. it is all the more important at this historic moment that all member states show solidarity with each other.
in writing. ‒ the two council decisions adopted in 2015, (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601, established provisional measures on international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, which provided for the relocation of 160 000 asylum seekers to other countries of the union. the commission should be able to request the member states to provide additional information on the situation of persons in the third countries concerned, in particular on the situation of persons in the third countries concerned, in order to allow the member states to assess the need for the relocation of persons. the commission proposal now intends to take account of the efforts made by the member states to take in syrian refugees resettled from turkey. the s&d group and the european parliament do not share this proposal. to date, member states have made available only 7% of the places needed for relocation from italy and greece. the liberec committee has therefore approved this report by a large majority, to stress the need for the member states to fulfil their obligations by relieving the pressure on the mediterranean countries. the continuation of this situation of complete lack of solidarity is unacceptable, and i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament has clearly spoken out against the european commission's proposal that member states could deduct the number of syrians resettled by turkey from the number of people that the member state has committed to take in under the resettlement agreements. i also had a decisive role to play in the adoption of a legislative resolution, as the epp's shadow rapporteur, which stresses that resettlement must not be at the expense of relocating asylum seekers currently in our country. the closure of the balkan route has again shifted irregular migration flows towards the central mediterranean. moreover, the latest figures published by the european commission tell us that only 1,064 people have been relocated from italy, while only 3,712 have been relocated from greece. to solve the migrant crisis we must continue on the path of sharing responsibilities and costs among the member states of the union. our task as members of the european parliament is to urge the commission and the council to make this happen. i think we have succeeded in this case and that is why i naturally voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision establishing temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece in relation to the migrant emergency. the text aims to ensure compliance with council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 aimed at alleviating the migratory pressure on italy and greece by implementing a relocation of asylum seekers to other member states. so far, member states have only made available 7% of the available places and this report aims to encourage them to implement the obligations laid down by the council by increasing their efforts to respond as quickly as possible to this humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ last year, at the height of the refugee crisis, the council decided to relocate 160 000 refugees from greece and italy to other member states. although the decision was contested by the eastern european member states, a clear majority were in favour of such relocation. through this commission proposal, the council is planning to set aside one third of the total number of refugees to be resettled (54,000) for the implementation of the eu-turkey agreement: for every syrian refugee that turkey readmits from the greek islands, another syrian will be resettled by turkey in other eu member states. in negotiating the agreement, member states failed to agree on making additional places available for refugees from turkey and for this reason they now intend to use the 54,000 places originally allocated for the resettlement of refugees from greece and italy to resettle syrian refugees directly from turkey. however, member states are not meeting their commitments on relocation: some have not yet taken in any refugees, others have only taken in a handful of people. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. ‒ the approach taken by the council to the employment policies of the member states is not adequate. it has proved to be contrary to the spirit of the treaties, leading to a weakening of interinstitutional cooperation and an increase in the democratic deficit vis-à-vis the citizens of the union. i am convinced that the council must take parliament's position into account, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the agea report on guidelines for member states' employment policies. the outbreak of the economic crisis and its continued negative effects on growth and employment, as amply demonstrated by all indicators of strategy 2020, strongly require the development of a genuinely inclusive and integrated labour market that is supported by a coordinated and effective social and employment policy. member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, need to tackle the very serious problem of unemployment in a timely manner by facilitating investment in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs with a particular focus on the green, white and blue sector and the social economy. social innovation, reduction of bureaucratic burdens, a new balance between work and private life for workers are all fundamental aspects which must be linked to the introduction of common instruments for the participation, information and consultation of workers. the crisis can be overcome, but only if the union responds jointly to all the problems it has created.
in writing. ‒ although the objectives of the report are shared, for example the fight against unemployment and the promotion of entrepreneurship, i am not convinced by the 'guidelines for employment policies' which, moving in the failed direction of 'more europe', do not lead to any concrete results for our citizens, our businesses and our territories. for these reasons i prefer to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ policies to ensure that wages represent an adequate subsistence income remain important for creating employment and reducing poverty in the union. member states, in conjunction with the social partners, should therefore respect and encourage wage-setting mechanisms which allow real wages to be adjusted to productivity trends and help to correct past divergences without fuelling deflationary pressures: these mechanisms should ensure sufficient resources to meet basic needs, taking into account poverty indicators specific to each member state. in this respect, differences in skills and conditions in local labour markets should be duly assessed with a view to ensuring a living wage throughout the union. in setting minimum wages in accordance with national law and practice, member states and social partners should ensure that they are adequate and take into account the impact on workers' poverty, household income, aggregate demand, job creation and competitiveness. a europe which is more attentive to the wage situation of its workers is a europe which is more just, more humane, more solidary and more secure.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i voted in favour of this report because i believe that guidelines for member states' employment policies are crucial for the effective integrated implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. although in some countries the employment rate has not yet returned to pre-crisis levels, the proportion of young people not in education, employment or training (neets) is over 20%. member states should continue to make every effort to address in practice the priority issues of reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce and promoting quality work and lifelong learning. it is also necessary to improve the performance of education and training systems at all levels, while increasing participation in tertiary education in order to promote social inclusion and combat poverty.
in writing. ‒ our colleague laura agea, who dealt with the same dossier last year, after seeing that the council not only totally ignored the position expressed by parliament in 2015, but also already decided to ignore what it will say in the 2016 report, decided to resubmit last year's guidelines in bulk, introducing a paragraph of heavy criticism to the eu council, whose approach proved "contrary to the spirit of the treaties" resulting in "a weakening of cooperation between the institutions of the union and an increase in the 'democratic deficit' towards the citizens of the union". the european parliament therefore strongly deplores the council's approach in this report and stresses the need to take parliament's position into account. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i considered that i would vote in favour of the council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which confirms what was already agreed by the council on 5 october 2015. i believe that the union's employment policies must ensure the creation of an integrated and inclusive labour market that ensures decent working conditions and adequate pay. in particular, i believe it is essential to stimulate the creation of quality jobs by reducing the administrative burden for small and mediumsized enterprises wishing to hire, and to encourage youth entrepreneurship. i appreciate that the draft decision considers the fight against youth unemployment and longterm unemployment as a priority issue to guide future european policies. further efforts are needed to reduce discrimination in access to the labour market for vulnerable groups such as women, young people, older workers or people with disabilities. i also believe that the member states must commit themselves to fighting precarious and undeclared work more effectively. in conclusion, i voted in favour of the decision because it sets out as a guideline for employment policies the need to improve the quality and accessibility of the education systems of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i support the guidelines for employment policies in the member states, as i believe that we must have common guidelines on reducing unemployment rates from years of only the most horrendous. employment is one of the objectives of europe 2020 and it is essential to coordinate and promote strategies to boost demand for and supply of labour by creating competent, skilled and resilient workforces. the integrated guidelines, which i share, provide for a system which meets the needs of businesses by reducing red tape (an endemic and all-embracing problem in italy, which must be brought to an end) and taxation, but which must be accompanied by an investment programme compatible with the specific recommendations made by the council to each member state. in fact, to reduce and eliminate the 120 million europeans at risk of poverty and social exclusion, measures are needed to train a workforce adapted to the changing demands of the market and an appropriate social protection policy. the european social fund should therefore be reaffirmed and the european fund for strategic investments activated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the general objectives and priorities for employment, which were defined by parliament last year, are also assessed by the council. the council should adopt a position on the subject, confirming by a decision the validity of the guidelines for employment policies as already adopted by the european parliament. the subject is also of great importance for its economic and social implications and i therefore believe it necessary for the council to express a decision on this.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal takes no account of the resolution we passed in parliament last year. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social dimension in the employment and social policy, in order to ensure that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are achieved. by ignoring our position, the european commission is not only failing to live up to the spirit and the letter of the treaties, but is backsliding on positions which, in the reality of today's world of work, are absolutely outdated and equally incapable of providing answers, particularly to the many young people who are beginning to no longer believe that in this europe one can aspire to stable and dignified work. we are calling for better social protection and active employment policies, which obviously require adequate investment: all of the things that have been missing so far have led to the dramatic socio-economic situation we are experiencing and the consequences that, if we do not change, will soon overwhelm us.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report by mrs agea, which reiterates the same recommendations as last year's report: social protection, employment policies with public investment to restart the economy, social assistance, minimum income policies to ensure support for poor households, minimum wage. recommendations that were completely ignored by the council, completely missing the objectives of the 2020 poverty reduction strategy and achieving a significant worsening in terms of employment and poverty. the european parliament therefore strongly deplores the council's approach in this report and stresses the need to take account of the position of parliament, the only body democratically and directly elected by the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report because i believe that the guidelines on employment policy are mainly a matter for the member states. i therefore do not think it is useful to reopen the debate on competence in employment matters, as an agreement between the member states had already been reached.
in writing. ‒ i abstain, although the objectives set out in the report are partly shared, but i can only criticise the european semester for its poor functioning.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament reaffirms its support for stronger action by member states towards a coordinated and effective employment and social policy. the usual measures are no longer enough. the employment and social objectives must be integrated in a concrete and ambitious manner into the macroeconomic procedures and european action must be coherent in all legal, economic and social fields. i would particularly stress the need to introduce appropriate forms of protection against social dumping, following the recent events affecting businesses and workers in europe. i also think it is very important that europe recognises the positive effects on employment and growth which can come from the introduction of new common instruments for participation, consultation and information for workers. in the coming weeks parliament will be examining a number of proposals for reform of company law, so it will be important to give a boost to quality employment on that occasion too.
in writing. the guidelines for member states' employment policies are based on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and aim to support reforms for sustainable, knowledge-based and innovation-driven growth. the european union aims at an employment rate of 75% for both men and women, and to achieve this, the effort is on the member states, which must encourage the participation in the labour market of young people, older workers, low-skilled workers and regular immigrants. for these reasons i am happy to approve and support the decision taken by parliament.
in writing. – according to the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, 120 million eu citizens are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution as i agree that the union needs to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market that is able to address the repercussions of unemployment, provide adequate working conditions and guarantee social protection, while at the same time pursuing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of this text and i would urge you to do the same, especially after president juncker's words on millennials. we must all bear in mind that new strategies and guidelines are urgently needed to enable young people to have more job opportunities in the years ahead.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wishes to express its disappointment with the decision of the commission and the council to completely ignore the suggestions of this assembly, made in its resolution of 8 july 2015, on guidelines for member states' employment policies. the attitude of the commission and the council is contrary to the spirit of the treaties and to the principle of good cooperation between the european institutions and risks reinforcing in the eyes of the public the impression of a democratic deficit in europe. with this report, we are today calling on the commission to amend its proposal and on the council to take account of the guidelines expressed by parliament in order to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market, capable of dealing with the severe impact of unemployment, ensuring a high level of employment, and guaranteeing decent working and living conditions. the time has come, beyond the many announcements, to work seriously and concretely on the construction of the union's social pillar. i therefore support this report because it is really going in that direction.
in writing. ‒ for the second year in a row, our colleague laura agea is the rapporteur for this dossier, which is a non-legislative consultation procedure where parliament expresses its guidelines for employment policies in the member states. the experience gained from last year has shown that the council ignored the position expressed by parliament in 2015 and is already in the process of doing so again this year with the 2016 report. the rapporteur therefore decided to resubmit the 2015 amendments in bulk, adding a paragraph criticizing the eu council which has proven to be against the spirit of the treaties. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the text adopted by the empl committee expresses disappointment at the lack of consideration by the council and the commission of the guidelines presented by parliament. the report therefore restates the same amendments as last year, aimed at focusing attention on the need to achieve an inclusive market that can respond to the problem of unemployment, create sustainable jobs and ensure decent working conditions.
in writing. this is a consultative report, not a legislative one. parliament is consulted on guidelines for member states' employment policies. we in the m5s dealt with the same dossier last year and found that the council not only totally ignored the position expressed by parliament in 2015, but has already decided to ignore the position that will be expressed in the 2016 report. together with my colleagues from the five star movement, we have succeeded in creating a consensus within parliament so that we can present last year's guidelines in a block, but introduce a paragraph strongly critical of the work of the eu council. the latter's approach has proved to be contrary to the spirit of the treaties by engaging in behaviour which has the effect of weakening cooperation between the union's institutions. we can only see in this an increase in the 'democratic deficit' vis-à-vis the citizens of the union. the european parliament, in this report, denounces the council's modus operandi and reiterates its position which must be taken into account. i could only vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international instrument aimed at protecting endangered species of wild fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. the resolution calls on the european commission to explain the union's main strategic objectives to the next conference of the parties to cites, highlighting the following aspects: the transparency of decision-making, the need to improve the reporting of wildlife smuggling, corruption and the implementation of cites. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is the most important agreement on wildlife conservation, with 181 parties including the european union and its 28 member states. whereas the eu is one of the main markets for the transit and destination of illegal trade in wildlife, in particular birds, turtles, reptiles and plant species listed in cites; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the resolution adopted by parliament today supports the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, encouraging all parties to strengthen cooperation, coordination and synergies between the biodiversity conventions. new legislation is needed to make it illegal to import, export, sell and buy wild plants and animals that are caught and possessed in violation of the law of the country of origin or transit. tackling illegal trade means fighting corruption, organised crime and terrorist organisations that profit from the trafficking of endangered species.
in writing. ‒ although the text is largely balanced and acceptable, there are still some passages which could open up the door to future criticism, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this is a sensitive issue that concerns us very closely as consumers. the trafficking of wildlife is a serious threat to biodiversity and sustainable development. species such as elephants, rhinos, great apes, tigers, and sharks are particularly affected and threatened with extinction. elephant and rhino poaching has reached an all-time high that is jeopardizing repopulation. wildlife trafficking is the fourth largest illegal activity in the world after drug, arms and human trafficking, with a turnover of about 17 billion euros per year. the resolution on the main objectives of cop 17 in johannesburg proposes tough action against corruption and organised crime involved in wildlife trafficking, which is often a means of financing many criminal organisations (think of the boko haram terrorist group in nigeria).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today, which focuses on some key points that eu negotiators should focus their attention on at the next cites conference. first, the traceability of wildlife: all parties should introduce an electronic authorisation system, which is also useful for the purpose of combating corruption, which is a key factor in the illegal trade in endangered species of flora and fauna. corruption can be detected at every point in the wildlife trade chain and affects countries of origin, transit and destination, damaging the effectiveness, proper implementation and ultimate success of the cites convention. this is why it is necessary to insist on the introduction of robust and effective anti-corruption measures and on greater judicial cooperation between member states. finally, cites should provide for the full and prompt application of sanctions against parties that do not comply with the key elements of the convention. the union and the member states should use all available tools to encourage parties to respect the cites convention and other international agreements called for by the convention aimed at protecting wild flora and fauna and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ cites is the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and is an international instrument designed to protect endangered species by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. the resolution highlights important issues such as transparency in decision-making, the need to improve the reporting of wildlife smuggling, corruption and the implementation of cites. i voted in favour of the final text.
in writing. ‒ the european union acceded to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in 2015. the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties, to be held from 21 september to 5 october, will be a very important moment of discussion to present the main objectives for europe in this field. the cites convention places a very strict protection regime on wildlife, but given the scale of trafficking and the high profits for criminal organisations, it is clear that a more structured strategy is needed among the countries that have signed the convention. the main objectives to be pursued are: the adoption of new measures to combat illegal online trade and, above all, the implementation of more robust actions to combat corruption and organised crime involved in this illicit trade. i voted in favour of the resolution because it highlights important aspects in terms of combating international trade run by crossborder organised crime. i therefore believe that a more effective approach is needed to combat this kind of trade, especially since the european union is one of the main markets for the transit and destination of endangered species of wild fauna and flora.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the line of objectives proposed by my colleagues, as it is a key moment in the fight for the protection of wild flora and fauna. i believe that the conference of the parties to cites in johannesburg, in which the european union will participate for the first time as an acceding party, will help to combat illegal trade in wildlife, as the eu is one of the main markets for both transit and destination. i also believe that the call for greater transparency in decision-making can help to improve the organisation's reputation and is in line with the principles of democracy and clarity promoted by the union. i regret the increase in illegal activities, especially in the trade in products derived from african elephants and tigers, and i hope that eu accession will lead to new funding to combat this growing black market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 17th meeting of cites, in the hope that decisions at the conference will be taken on the basis of technical and scientific analysis carried out by the states concerned in collaboration with local authorities, that is, with the full involvement of rural populations in order to ensure greater protection of the natural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the 17th meeting of the contracting parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) will mark a pivotal moment in our efforts to preserve biodiversity on a global scale. i therefore hope that in johannesburg the eu and its member states will be able to show all the negotiating skills needed to promote an ever higher level of protection by introducing further restrictions on international trade in endangered species. it will be an opportunity to discuss the conservation status of the species listed in annexes i and ii of the convention and to amend the convention text in the light of a reflection on its effective implementation. i would also like to point out that a number of issues relating to the subject matter of cites are the subject of wide-ranging reflection by european public opinion. many european citizens, in fact, are exercising their right to petition the european parliament to demand that hunting trophies be banned from being imported into the eu. my vote on this resolution can only be in favour, as it focuses, among other things, on the need to improve the instruments for reporting on the smuggling of wild fauna and flora and, more generally, the implementation of cites.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is the fourth largest black market after drugs, human trafficking, drugs and the illicit arms market. yet i doubt that this is a universally recognized problem. the european union is also preparing to launch a new initiative to combat illegal fishing in the north sea. and the adoption of this text today will give europe the opportunity to make its contribution to putting a real stop to this scourge of crime and corruption. the message that parliament is sending today with this vote is clear and unequivocal: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu's strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october 2016, because i consider it essential to find a common understanding to regulate the hunting of species at high risk of extinction at international level and to preserve plant biodiversity. i think it is crucial that the eu has a driving role in the cites negotiations, as it is unfortunately one of the main transit and destination markets for the illegal trade in protected plant and animal species, which often end up in our homes as ornamental plants or pets. i therefore share the call in the resolution for a stronger fight against corruption and poaching, for more effective rules to regulate online trade and for a ban on importing, exporting, selling or buying plants or animals sold in violation of the laws of the country of origin or transit. it is now up to the member states to put these agreements into practice and to apply effective and efficient sanctions to put an end to irregularities and to combat illegal hunting inside and outside the eu.
in writing. this motion for a resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites. this is a key step in ensuring that the eu can pursue the objectives of its environmental policies and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of flora and fauna, as well as promoting the sustainable development policies of the un 2030 agenda. the eu is also called upon to take immediate action to reduce illegal trade by making it illegal to import, sell or purchase wild plants or animals that are caught, possessed, transported or sold in violation of the law of the country of origin. the proposal aims to promote and support all initiatives aimed at improving the welfare of live cites listed animals at the marketing stage, also seeking to minimise the risk of injury, damage to health or mistreatment.
in writing. ‒ in thanking the rapporteur for his work and having also followed the debate in the envi committee, i would like to confirm my positive opinion.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a protection instrument which provides for the control of international trade in these endangered species. in view of the next meeting of the parties to be held in south africa from 24 september to 5 october 2016, the envi committee of the european parliament decided to put the following oral question to the european commission by resolution: 'can the commission explain the main strategic objectives for the european union at the next conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg, south africa, from 24 september to 5 october 2016? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the report is to assess the state of postal services in the eu following the revision of the postal directive in 2008. the need to ensure equitable and non-discriminatory access to vocational training and an essential universal service of quality and affordable conditions, with special guarantees for disabled citizens, is emphasised. the commission is therefore calling for a guaranteed minimum level of service for consumers, with transparency of prices and delivery conditions. finally, the need to ensure decent working conditions for all workers, including the necessary level of health and safety protection at the workplace, is emphasised. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we will vote in favour of the dossier, which provides a substantial update on the question of postal services, which more than others are struggling to keep up with the enormous and rapid changes brought about by the digitalisation of services and the exponential growth of electronic commerce. since 2008, public postal services have suffered from the proliferation of offers from private operators and in some member states, such as italy, they are found to be much less competitive than private ones and not at all cost-effective. the digitisation of services and systems such as parcel or mail tracking is often cumbersome and difficult to access compared to similar services offered by the private sector. and this, with an ageing european population, does not facilitate the use of a public service which is fundamental and one of the most important. there is often a gap between the user and the service provider, and the race to digitalise often overlooks the many users spread out over the territory and in small towns, for whom human contact and the ability to interact physically with the service provider are still of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the feber report on the application of the postal services directive. the postal market remains an economic sector in which the prospects for growth and increased competition are still strong. despite the decline in letter services, driven by a corresponding increase in electronic mail, the impact of information and communication technologies has allowed a significant increase in parcel and courier revenues, thanks to the large volume of online purchases. the proposed text, taking these aspects into account, calls on the commission to facilitate and strengthen cooperation and coordination between national regulatory authorities, in order to achieve greater efficiency and interoperability in cross-border supply. the geographical coverage and accessibility of universal parcel delivery services should be improved, paying particular attention to the needs of citizens with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. ‒ despite some interesting and shareable points, such as the need to ensure that the postal service remains accessible to all citizens, there are still some critical points in the report which have led me not to share it fully and to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 postal services review has achieved the main objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services. however, postal services have undergone enormous changes since the full opening of the postal services market in 2008. on the one hand, paper communications have declined in many member states. the number of letters decreased across the european union and between 2012 and 2013, the average rate of decline across the 28 member states of the union was 4,85%. on the other hand, new technologies make online shopping more convenient and thus increase the number of parcels and parcels transported by postal operators. as a result, revenues from parcels and courier services now account for more than half of the total revenues of the postal sector. the existence of good postal services is a vital element for communication in the eu internal market. from collection to transport, from sorting to the delivery of letters and parcels to homes and offices, postal service providers offer a wide range of services at an affordable price that must be safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that efficient and state-of-the-art postal services are an essential element for good communication in the eu's internal market. the opening up of this sector to competition, which started in 2008, has so far stimulated the development of value-added services such as track-and-trace technologies, pick-up/drop-off points and flexible delivery times and referral procedures. a competitive, innovative and fast-growing market for parcel delivery should not be hampered by unjustified regulations or bureaucratic red tape. postal and parcel delivery must be reliable and available at prices that are affordable to european citizens. postal services have undergone major changes with the full opening up of the market. while paper-based communications have declined significantly in many member states, e-commerce, by facilitating purchases, is leading to a marked increase in the number of parcels and parcels carried by postal operators. in fact, revenues from parcels and courier deliveries account for more than half of the total revenues of the postal sector.
in writing. ‒ the implementation report aims to assess the state of postal services in europe following the revision of the postal directive in 2008. i have no particular problems with that, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the existence of good postal services is a vital element for communication and for the smooth functioning of the eu's internal market. the postal market is an economic sector in which the prospects for growth and increased competition are still strong and not hampered by the digital age, which through new technologies has favoured online purchases and transactions, resulting in an increase in postal items which has doubled the total revenues of the sector. the future will certainly require greater crossborder coordination and harmonisation of authorisation procedures in order to remove barriers to access to the single market. the implementation of the postal services directive has helped to open up the market and increase competition, but it is necessary to ensure that the member states and the commission monitor the provision of services to the public and their reliability. we all expect that the opening of a strategic sector such as this will not create any additional costs or disadvantages for the citizens. consumer protection must be at the heart of all european policies and must be guaranteed through clear and transparent pricing policies and rules for the provision of services. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr ferber's report because i share the assessment that the postal services directive is not very effective. in particular, in some member states, such as italy, the liberalisation of postal services has not helped to create a more dynamic market. on the contrary, the italian state remains the majority shareholder in poste italiane, often behaving as a private company seeking profits. in fact, many mountain communities are served only two days a week. i therefore fully agree with mr ferber on the need to ensure a truly universal postal service and the obligation to ensure at least five days of delivery and collection per week for all citizens. finally, i hope that the call to the commission to promote affordable crossborder tariffs and to identify anti-competitive and monopolistic practices will finally lead to a european single market.
in writing. ‒ the evolution of the internal market, such as the revision of the postal services directive in 2008, has led to a decrease in paper-based communications in favour of electronic ones. this means new opportunities for innovation and greater market expansion, with the consequent increase in suppliers and competition. to ensure that the postal service continues to be a sector capable of contributing to social, economic and territorial cohesion, it is necessary to define minimum rules between operators avoiding unjustified regulation and unnecessary red tape, to ensure a sustainable but flexible provision of universal service taking into account local specificities, to continue to provide a consistently high quality service at affordable conditions and to increase the transparency of tariffs applied to the various products.
in writing. ‒ the employment equality directive aims to create a level playing field for equality in employment and ensures a consolidated eu employment legal framework. i would remind you that the data available on equality are still very limited and that although the perception of discrimination has increased, there is no real awareness of one's rights and of judicial mechanisms against discriminatory practices. in the light of these considerations, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that national bodies can and must show greater commitment to the implementation of the equality directive by taking concrete action and combating all forms of discrimination in employment and the labour market.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, european postal services have undergone substantial changes: the number of letters decreased across the european union while the number of parcels and parcels carried by postal operators increased as a result of online purchases. the postal services therefore need a new directive to achieve a single, transparent and competitive market and to promote sustainable and efficient economic growth. for these reasons i have decided to support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the existence of valid postal services is a vital element for communication in the eu's internal market and makes a substantial contribution to social, economic and territorial cohesion and the development of the digital single market. reliable and affordable postal and parcel delivery is still essential for the single market. in addition, many other sectors such as e-commerce, publishing, mail order, insurance, banking and advertising are heavily dependent on postal infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the resolution which, despite some positive steps, does not touch on some important issues such as the maintenance of certain services in certain areas.
in writing. in recent years there has been a sudden change in the postal services sector. while paper-based communications have declined, technology and the new way of shopping online have increased parcel shipments. to date, this sector provides more than 50% of total revenue. the union postal sector continues to contribute to social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market, and it is therefore vital for communication that these services are provided efficiently and at affordable prices. the commission is therefore called upon to promote and safeguard competition in the sector in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives of sustainable growth and a more competitive economy. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour of parliament's proposal on the implementation of the postal services directive.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on the application of the postal services directive. of all the key points listed, i have to agree with the importance of ensuring that there are no barriers to the accessibility of parcel deliveries, especially to citizens with disabilities or those living in remote areas. not only do deliveries matter, but i would also stress the serious need to improve quality of service and to protect consumers’ rights in order to restore consumer confidence.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my full support for this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that the postal services market, thanks to increased competition, can be an important driver for economic growth, technological innovation and the development of high value-added services. as a service of general interest, postal services are also an important tool for promoting social cohesion and the report, thanks to the excellent work done in the transport committee by the s&d group, states that member states are required to ensure good working conditions for all employees in the sector. the s&ds' commitment also meant that the final text adopted also contained a number of other very important points: a better definition of public utility services, in order to ensure a good level of service for consumers; simplified coordination between national regulatory authorities, with a view to enhanced cross-border interoperability; an indication to member states to harmonise authorisation procedures in order to reduce unjustified barriers to entry for competitors on their markets; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report analysing different possibilities for increasing funding for european smes, given their crucial importance in the european economy, both through the traditional banking channel and through new alternative methods. while some parts, such as those on bank financing and financial culture, are shared, others pose a major risk to smes and small operators in general who would end up dealing with financial instruments that are not transparent and complex. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft legislative framework for the european central bank (ecb/2014/10). for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although not yet clearly defined by european legislation, small and medium-sized enterprises form the backbone of the continent's economy. they accounted for 67% of total employment, 71,4% of employment growth and 58% of value added in the eu non-financial sector in 2014. these are important facts which oblige the institutions to pay particular attention to the problems which these engines of the european economy may encounter. one of the most important issues is access to credit. the karas report, which i have supported today, is a balanced text which calls for improvements in the public and private funding opportunities for smes. the financial services sector needs to be diversified, well regulated and stable, and to offer a wide range of tailor-made financing options with good cost-effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ despite some interesting points, the karas report presents several critical points on which i preferred to express my opinion by abstaining.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and midcaps represent a significant part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes has therefore rightly been a long-standing issue on the political agenda. compared to larger companies, smes have had more difficulty accessing finance during the crisis. this was due to the high reliance of smes on bank loans and the reduction in banks' leverage caused by the crisis. the capital markets union initiative has therefore placed the diversification of sme financing at the top of its priorities. the disparity between smes in the eu is considerable: there are different types of aid in the member states depending on the commercial model, size, stage of development, financial structure and legal form. in addition, country-specific factors, including the economic environment, structural factors such as the legal framework and cultural issues have a strong influence on the financing needs and availability of financing options: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union against fraud and other irregularities (oj c 180, 1.7.1998, p.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and mid-caps play a significant role in the eu economy. compared to larger firms, smes, especially in times of crisis, have many difficulties in accessing finance. there are different types of smes in the member states. they vary according to business model, size, stage of development, financial structure and legal form. i think it is important to support access to finance for smes throughout their life cycle. concrete measures should therefore be taken to support smes also in the preparatory phase of the transfer of the undertaking; for example, tax incentives could be considered. however, to date, bank loans are the main source of finance for smes. i agree with the rapporteur that i support the proposals in the action plan for a capital markets union. these proposals are designed to better connect smes with a wide range of financing options.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses several possibilities for increasing funding for smes, but some of these are not sustainable because they risk producing the opposite effect. the importance of the capital markets union is emphasised, which, through a greater financialisation of the economy, represents a major risk for smes and small operators who will have to deal with financial instruments that are not very transparent and complex. it is also recommended that the return to securitisation, another risk factor par excellence, be considered. these instruments will only aggravate the problems facing smes today, reducing financial stability and thus growth. the efsi plan is used, despite its complete inefficiency. finally, the report supports the unconventional monetary policies initiated by the ecb after the crisis which, as the evidence has already amply demonstrated, have proved to be absolutely inefficient, if not even harmful, due to excessive reduction of rates and price levels. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are a key part of the union's economy, accounting for 99% of all eu enterprises. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. micro and small enterprises in the euro area have suddenly been confronted with an unjustified tightening of bank collateral requirements. i believe that the public and private financing opportunities for smes should be diversified and improved, and that they should not be restricted to the banking sector. furthermore, i believe that access to credit should not be restricted to the start-up phase of the business but extended throughout its life cycle, to ensure a long-term strategic approach and support in the subsequent development phases. i particularly appreciated the focus of this report on women-led smes and the most vulnerable groups, who face the greatest obstacles in accessing finance. the commission has the important task of identifying unjustified barriers and any forms of discrimination against smes. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ considering that smes are a fundamental part of the italian industrial fabric, representing well over 137 000 activities with a turnover of over 800 billion and at least 3.9 million employees, i can only welcome the report presented by mr karas. the ongoing crisis is hampering optimal access to credit, and therefore a regulatory framework is needed to address the different financing needs of smes, which are inherently heterogeneous. in line with the report, regional and local banking will be facilitated, as it is the most adaptable to the specific needs of smes. the commission will also consider the possibility of extending the scope of the new aid to cover the costs of the restructuring of the bank. the commission will therefore undertake to draw up an annual report outlining the state of play of the implementation initiatives and their impact on access to credit, together with strong growth strategies.
in writing. ‒ i agree with mr karas in calling on the commission to improve the rules for access to both public and private funding and to adopt a long-term strategic plan that includes a wide range of projects and initiatives suitable for all types of businesses. the efsi, which with its branch is an important source of support for entrepreneurship, as well as the sme supporting factor, a programme that helps banks to lend to smes, should be given greater visibility.
in writing. ‒ the challenges faced by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the eu, in terms of financing conditions, the amount and cost of available finance, are influenced by specific factors linked both to smes and to the countries and regions in which they are established, including economic instability, slow growth and increased financial fragility. it is therefore necessary to diversify and improve the public and private financing opportunities for smes, which should not be limited to the start-up phase but should continue throughout their life cycle, and a long-term strategic approach to guaranteeing credit to enterprises is also needed, taking into account the diversity of enterprises in terms of size, sectors in which they operate, and business volumes. the european parliament's resolution, which i voted for, calls on the commission and the member states to support smes in this process, even in the first years of their activity. in addition, the commission is called upon to review existing instruments, such as the structural funds and other relevant programmes, to assess the adequacy of the financial support provided to smes in relation to the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ the report on access to credit for smes in the capital markets union focuses on promoting a culture of risk and capital markets. the text stresses the need for financial education for smes as a prerequisite for increasing the supply of bank loans and for widening the use and acceptance of solutions offered by the capital markets. it is not through risk and financial engineering products that the situation of european micro, small and mediumsized enterprises will improve. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial sector is not left behind. it is therefore necessary to avoid any moral hazard and to create a safe banking sector in order to guarantee the traditional banking relationship as the main source of credit for smes, avoiding favouring investment banks through the instrument of securitisations. finally, i do not hide my concern about the capital markets union, which, while aiming to increase the range of possibilities for access to credit for citizens and businesses by improving and homogenizing their financial inclusion, exposes the entire credit and capital system to a real increase in risk, aiming at the financialization of the economy and harming savers, especially in the medium and long term. for the reasons i have just given, i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to support access to finance for smes throughout their lifecycle. in fact, compared to larger companies, smes have had more difficulty accessing finance during the crisis. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital adequacy ratio. the capital markets union initiative has therefore placed the diversification of sme financing at the top of its priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the ep resolution on access to credit for smes and strengthening the diversity of sme financing in the capital markets union, because i believe that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy, particularly in italy, in terms of growth and employment. however, there is no single, specific definition of smes and they constitute a very diverse world based on business models that face different problems, with consequent different financial needs. in the eu, 77% of sme financing is based on bank credit, a very high percentage, and for micro-enterprises it is still the only possible source of access to credit. the commission notes that the recapitalisation of the bank was granted in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. at the same time, i believe that public and private financing opportunities for smes throughout their lifecycle should be diversified and improved in accordance with a long-term strategic approach. smes must be encouraged to have a european vision and to see the eu as their field of action. member states must reduce administrative barriers.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and midcaps are an essential part of the union's economy and have been at the centre of the political agenda for several years. however, access to finance for smes has been problematic during the crisis, and has left businesses dependent on bank loans. in addition, there are many differences between smes in the eu. depending on the country and the economic and cultural context, they change in structure, size and legal form, which in turn requires different financing options. for these reasons, we are aiming to diversify the funding of smes by developing strategic measures appropriate to each situation. the report therefore calls on the commission to present an annual report on the state of implementation of the initiatives with the results obtained for smes and the related recommendations.
in writing. – linking this resolution to the one by guillaume balas, i find myself once again stressing the importance of equal treatment for women and, therefore, i am pleased to see that the resolution included a prohibition on gender discrimination in access to goods and services. that justified my vote in favour of it. on the other hand, i agree with the rapporteur who underlines that a simple and fair taxation system is the best way to ensure the development of smes. on a different note, the use of new and innovative technologies that could provide new funding opportunities for smes, if it is proven to be effective, is encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of this report because i have always been a strong supporter of the work of smes and their access to credit in my committee. i believe that smes are the real engine of our economy and the backbone on which two thirds of european households rely. i therefore welcome any policy that safeguards and invents their work.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is part of parliament's contribution to the construction of the single market for capital. in particular, it builds on the work started by the commission with the 2015 'green paper on retail financial services' and asks the commission to pay particular attention to the specific needs of smes and to ensure that cross-border activities in the sector lead to better access to finance for smes. more specifically, the report stresses the need to improve and diversify the possibilities for smes to access both public and private funding, including in the post-start-up phase. calls on the commission and the member states to promote information on funding opportunities. it instructs the commission to consider the possibility of introducing loan financing programmes specifically targeted at smes. it points out that, where they do not distort competition, state aid may be necessary for the development of smes. smes are the real engine of european economic growth, a major stimulus for innovation and generate the majority of jobs. we must support them in the best possible way and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a 2015 survey found that the main challenges facing european smes are related to finding customers, finding a skilled workforce, standards, competition, production costs and access to finance. on this last point, i believe it is important to encourage the creation of new financial players at regional level, who can offer innovative solutions to both established companies and start-ups. whereas, moreover, the sme sector is extremely diverse in europe; it is important that initiatives to improve access to finance include different measures that can affect as many enterprises as possible, taking into account their specificities. i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report which recognises that diversification of credit sources would lead to greater stability in the financial sector as a whole. finally, i hope that a number of concrete measures will soon be put in place to increase financial support for smes and thus improve their growth potential.
in writing. ‒ an own-initiative report was voted at the last plenary session to analyse various possibilities for increasing funding for european smes, both through the traditional banking channel and through new alternative methods. given the crucial importance of smes in the european economy, ensuring easy access to finance is a necessary condition for the recovery of the european economy. on the one hand, the banking channel must be strengthened, made more reliable and adapted to the specific needs of smes, and on the other hand, alternative methods must be offered to end excessive reliance on banks. the report analyses various possibilities for improving financial culture and increasing sme financing, some of which, such as crowdfunding and peer to peer lending, have also received our support. however, the report does have some criticisms. it stresses the importance of the capital markets union, which, through increased financialisation of the economy, represents a major risk for smes. it recommends a return to securitisation, another quintessential risk factor. it is the efsi plan that is being flooded, despite its complete inefficiency. finally, it supports the ecb's post-crisis policies. for these reasons we have abstained both in the econ committee and in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report analyses the different possibilities for increasing funding for european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), both through the traditional banking channel and through new alternative methods. given the crucial importance of smes in the european economy, ensuring easy access to finance is a necessary condition for the recovery of the european economy. while the banking channel needs to be strengthened, made more reliable and adapted to the specific needs of smes, alternative methods must be offered to end excessive reliance on banks. the report analyses several possibilities for increasing sme funding, some of which are not sustainable. firstly, the capital markets union, which, through increased financialization of the economy, represents a major risk for smes and small operators who will have to deal with financial instruments that are not very transparent and complex. it is also recommended that the return to securitisation, another risk factor par excellence, be considered. the efsi plan is used, despite its complete inefficiency. finally, the report supports the unconventional monetary policies initiated by the ecb which have proved to be totally inefficient, if not even harmful, due to excessive reduction of rates and price levels.
in writing. ‒ despite the rules of the internal market, the regulatory framework applicable to smes still differs significantly across member states. the report sets out the policies needed, both at national and european level, to achieve a healthy environment for business development and to boost its job-creating potential. although many of our positions were included in the report, others were left out, such as the disparity in taxation conditions in the various member states, which generates social dumping, the impact of european constraints on budgetary policies, austerity, excessive taxation and inadequate public spending on the job creation potential of smes and their competitiveness, and finally the equalisation of apprenticeships and traineeships with all other forms of work, including equal treatment in social and social security terms. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ smes make an important contribution to the union's growth and socioeconomic development, and supporting them means fighting unemployment in a concrete way, particularly youth unemployment, which is now at historic levels. however, job creation in smes is influenced by a number of factors, both internal and external, ranging from access to finance to administrative burdens to skilled labour. the krasnodębski report, which i supported with my vote, calls on the commission and the member states to work to tackle crucial problems such as skills shortages, regulatory uncertainty, low innovation capacity and access to credit. only a holistic approach, which develops good social dialogue and takes into account the skills needed by 21st century workers, will be able to create new jobs in smes.
in writing. ‒ the reports voted on are balanced and widely shared. i believe that the role played by small and mediumsized enterprises in the economic growth of the member states is fundamental. i strongly reiterate my conviction that the system of programming and management of the european structural funds must be radically renewed, making it less complex and eliminating all the current administrative burdens on businesses before, during and after the granting of aid. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ at the end of 2014, the eu had an average youth unemployment rate of 21.4%, or more than 7 million unemployed young people. however, at the same time, 2 million jobs were unfilled in the eu. this indicates the need to improve the link between the world of training and the world of work, to develop more flexible and interdisciplinary skills. cooperation, participation and partnerships are the means to establish a constructive relationship with smes and the diverse european business community and to ease the current administrative and financial constraints on starting up new business activities, through simplified procedures, easy access to credit, venture capital and microfinance, guaranteed high-speed internet connections, tailor-made multidisciplinary advice and the introduction, where possible, of incentive measures for entrepreneurs who hire young unemployed people. the importance of microfinance and the european programme for employment and social innovation (easi) in achieving full youth employment is clear. only by increasing the efficiency of the training pathway and creating a network of one-stop shops where all the administrative procedures necessary for setting up and running a business can be carried out will we be able to raise the rate of youth entrepreneurship in the short term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because smes, which account for almost 99% of european enterprises, are the undisputed backbone of the eu economy. in the last decade, smes have created as much as 85% of european jobs. moreover, as the report aptly points out, last year small enterprises contributed up to 71% to the growth of employment in the non-financial trading economy. i therefore believe that smes should be at the heart of the business policy making process in the eu. effective measures must therefore be put in place to strengthen the job creation potential of this key sector. however, the organisations and networks representing smes are still too weak. smes are in some cases faced with the additional problem of low capitalisation, which results in a worse market position and hinders fair competition. one of the main challenges is to reduce the burden on smes, especially labour costs. this challenge can only be met if there is a stable and high-quality regulatory framework, where the rules are applied in a uniform and equal way.
in writing. ‒ smes are very heterogeneous and despite the rules of the internal market, there are still significant differences across the european union in terms of the regulatory framework, particularly as regards their stability and their level of certainty. the report by mr krasnodębski stresses that in order to achieve a healthy environment for the development of enterprises and to boost their job creation potential, national and european policies must first of all be concerned with tackling the problems related to skills (shortage, inadequacy, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as to undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinationals. unfortunately, some very important concepts proposed by the m5s in the empl committee were left out of the report: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the engine of the european economy and make a key contribution to employment. in 2014, smes employed almost 90 million people, or 67% of total employment in europe. i believe it is essential to create an economic environment which facilitates the development of smes and stimulates their ability to recruit. in this respect, policy action should improve smes' access to skills by encouraging vocational training and education activities. in addition, i think it is important to reduce the burden on smes, including labour costs, in order to encourage the creation of quality and lasting jobs. i also hope that the administrative burden on smes will be reduced. it has been shown that over-regulated administrative economic systems result in higher fixed costs by indirectly providing a competitive advantage to larger enterprises. i also thought i should vote in favour of the report because it calls on the commission and the member states to take measures to promote the internationalisation of smes, which can expand their market and consequently their employment potential. finally, it should be stressed that the underground and criminal economy is a form of unfair competition which particularly harms smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the krasnodebski report in order to facilitate the creation of new jobs. it is also true that there is a disparity between smes and multinationals in the level of regulatory standards they are able to absorb. so, in order to give more dynamism to the labour market, i fully agree with the need to lighten the regulatory and bureaucratic burden on small and mediumsized enterprises (smes). i believe that smes are an important pillar of the european union and therefore i am in favour of facilitating smes' access to public procurement and finance, as well as to research and development, in order to promote quality jobs in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because smes are at the heart of our economy and face significant problems in terms of the regulatory framework, the raising of funds but above all the delay in payments, particularly by public administrations. the administrative burden on selfemployed workers in micro-enterprises is currently disproportionate to that of large enterprises and i agree with the rapporteur when he calls on the commission and the member states to promote collaborative networks through the establishment of cooperatives, which will greatly enhance sustainability and job creation. i can only support the amendment of the thresholds for access to european investment projects, adapting them to allow smes and start-ups to benefit from them and to enable greater cooperation between the commission, national and regional authorities, businesses and the social partners.
in writing. ‒ the european economic structure is based mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises as the source of new jobs and the driving force of the european economy. i am therefore firmly convinced that smes must be at the heart of the business policy-making process in the european union and that it is desirable that all necessary steps be taken to strengthen the job-creation potential of this sector. at present, despite the rules of the internal market, there are still major differences across the european union in terms of the regulatory framework for smes, which create unfavourable conditions for development. in the light of these challenges, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to strengthen the conditions for job creation in all eu member states, peripheral and central, in order to achieve a healthy environment for business development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it underlines the importance of creating a healthy environment for the development of enterprises and to give greater impetus to their job-creation potential. in this sense, national and european policies must first of all be concerned with addressing the problems of competences, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i believe it underlines the central role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the growth of the member states' economies.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report as it outlines good policies concerning how we can make the most out of our european smes, especially in creating jobs. in order to achieve the potential of our smes we need to make sure that national and eu policies are prioritising issues such as skill gaps, uncertain regulations and administrative burdens. we must make sure that rules for doing business are simple and easy to access in order to create a good regulatory environment and that it is easy to hire and do all the accompanying paperwork. another major point that the report also agrees with is that there are large regional disparities and imbalances when it comes to smes’ access to funding and investments. ways to achieve a more even playing field include to securitise loans to smes, use micro-credit and to push for improvements in the enforcement of the late payments directive.
in writing. we have recently had the opportunity to highlight the central role played by small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) on several occasions in recent years. the report put to the vote today explains how to improve the quality of regulation in the context of smes and how to reduce the burden on smes, which is essential to ensure long-term, quality jobs. the future of our young people is in our hands, and we must make sure that it is as profitable as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report on how best to realise the job creation potential of smes.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and would vote in favour of the report as amended by the amendments proposed by my group which extend and enrich the basic text.
in writing. ‒ smes are the backbone of the european economy. this is why it is important to work towards ensuring fair competition, access to finance, an appropriate regulatory framework, skills to meet the challenges of the 21st century and good social dialogue, in order to enable smes to create sustainable and quality jobs. i am voting in favour of the report because it has been considerably improved in committee thanks to the efforts of the s&d group, which has succeeded in including in the text a number of very important elements for both companies and workers, such as the inclusion of social and cooperative enterprises, the importance of the digital single market and the fight against tax evasion and undeclared work. equally important are the call for free trade agreements not to penalise workers' rights and wages, the need to tackle the problems of precarious work, shell companies, sham self-employment, unfair competition and unequal treatment between men and women, both in terms of employment and pay levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how to boost sme job creation. the text aims to achieve important objectives such as social and occupational protection, the creation of quality employment, respect for gender equality in employment, a response to precarious work and the problems associated with unfair competition and tax evasion. the impact of trade agreements on workers' rights, wage and salary issues and the impact of the digital single market are also considered.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the employment equality directive is to combat discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in the workplace. the main points of the report are the removal of the natural, social and economic obstacles which prevent the substantial implementation of the principle of equality and which limit the freedom of european citizens; the promotion of smart working, which enables disabled people to work from home; the rules on whistleblower protection and confidentiality in the event of discriminatory conduct in the workplace, and the reintegration of convicted prisoners into the labour market. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the weber report on the implementation of the employment equality directive, which i supported today, takes stock of the 15 years since its adoption and outlines some important recommendations for future developments. even today, roma, lgbti people, people with disabilities and people belonging to religious minorities face daily discrimination and sometimes are victims of hate crimes. despite the positive implementation of the directive in many member states, there are still areas where the principles of non-discrimination which are fundamental to the construction of europe still need to be affirmed. many states have set up bodies dedicated to information on anti-discrimination legislation and raising awareness of these issues, but these structures often suffer from chronic lack of funds. the problems of awareness, information and access to justice are largely overcome but concrete efforts are needed. the social partners and civil society must be appropriately involved in order to support and encourage the institutions towards the effective implementation of equality and equity at work.
in writing. ‒ the report is biased and blatantly supports the usual good-natured rhetoric towards roma, migrants and lgbti people. instead of assessing the state of the art in combating discrimination at work among european citizens, the text exposes the hypocrisy of the eu, which publicly defends the right of workers to a fair balance between work and private life, but at the same time forces member states to cut more and more services under the blows of austerity policies. finally, the text ends up being a completely one-sided criticism of the eurosceptic movements, which are "guilty" of thinking differently. for all these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the treaty on european union, we are founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights. the european union is fighting social exclusion and discrimination: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: article 10 tfeu provides that the union is to combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. furthermore, article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu states that any form of discrimination based on sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation is prohibited. today we still face gender, ethnic, religious discrimination and prejudice of various kinds that undermine the unity and harmony of relations between our fellow citizens: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the field of education.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today, which takes stock of the state of play in the implementation of the equal treatment directive in employment. fifteen years after the adoption of the directive, considerable progress has been made. some member states do not limit protection against discrimination based on personal belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, but extend it to the areas covered by the racial equality directive. however, the situation must be monitored carefully because the economic crisis tends to deprive rights, especially the weakest groups. the report also highlights the lack of clarity and legal certainty in directive 2000/78/ec on multiple discrimination. it does not contain any specific provision on multiple discrimination, although it does explicitly state that the combination of two or more forms of discrimination may give rise to problems linked to the differences in the level of protection afforded to the different forms.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the employment equality directive, adopted 15 years ago, is to combat discrimination on any grounds in the workplace. the report reiterates all the main points of the directive and calls for its timely implementation throughout the union. i voted for it without any doubt.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the report which takes stock of the first 15 years of application of the employment equality directive. i believe that almost all member states have incorporated the general principle of equal treatment in employment into their constitutions. i welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to collect data on discrimination, and in particular on discrimination on racial grounds. i believe that these incidents have a negative impact on social cohesion and respect for the fundamental rights on which the european union is based. i regret that despite some positive results on some issues such as the inclusion of people with disabilities, the number of discriminatory incidents against muslims and lgbt people is increasing. in this connection, i think it is appropriate to increase the resources allocated to the national bodies responsible for awareness campaigns. i also believe that these organisations should provide information and legal assistance in order to increase the number of complaints by victims of discrimination. in conclusion, i believe it is essential to increase the participation of people aged 55 to 64 in the labour market in order to ensure that they have long-term income security.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by mrs weber to clarify and deepen the general framework for equal treatment in employment and working conditions. legislative instruments must be put in place to eliminate discrimination and in the light of this, i have spoken in favour of the recognition of freedom of conscience as a fundamental right. i am alarmed, in this connection, about doctors who suffer discrimination as a result of conscientious objection. while it considers religious freedom an inalienable right, the report's assumption that employers may have legitimate reasons for banning certain religious symbols where these pose safety concerns or repress women's rights is widely shared. the latter also need innovative proposals on maternity leave and effective health protection at the workplace in order to work in optimum conditions and with peace of mind. since achieving full and effective equality at work has, as can be seen, the most transversal impacts, i invite european citizens to keep alive the interest in the measures adopted and to point out any shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it calls on the eu institutions to take greater account of the difficulties faced by disabled people on a daily basis and to strengthen both the protection against discrimination in the labour market and the protection against discrimination in employment. member states should be encouraged to implement employment policies that combine positive measures, such as tax breaks, with active policies, such as guidance and training, to promote the employment of people with disabilities and to accompany employers with ongoing support throughout the employment process.
in writing. ‒ the report takes seriously the issues that have recently arisen with the evolution of socioeconomic conditions in europe. unfortunately, there are still many areas where workers are discriminated against on the grounds of sexual orientation, colour of skin, ethnic or social origin, language, religion, heritage, birth, disability, family difficulties or personal beliefs and opinions, including political ones. not only that: the austerity measures imposed in recent years have increased the number of forced displacements of workers aged between 45 and 55 who are unable to reintegrate into the current employment environment, also because of age discrimination. the european union is generally identified with its obligations and duties, but rarely is there any mention of a basic text which, if applied regularly to the policies of the institutions and the member states, could help to bridge the gap between citizens and the eu. this is the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which contains a set of fundamental principles, including those applied to the employment context. it is therefore hoped that the eu will put these values back at the centre to combat social exclusion and to affirm solidarity, inclusion and equality. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is essential that the union be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the european union must aim to eliminate social exclusion and discrimination. the principle of non-discrimination must cover all aspects of people's lives, including employment.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report: the usual rhetoric in favour of roma, migrants, lgbt categories, etc. they do not consider themselves to be european citizens in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and working conditions (equality in employment directive) because i support the need to create equal conditions for all community citizens to facilitate their access to the world of work. although the european union is founded on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, equality and the protection of human rights, there is a wide gap between member states in respect of compliance with the obligations of the directive in the field of employment. while it is true that some of the more virtuous states go even further than these obligations, extending protection to racial equality, as well as to age, sexual orientation and religious beliefs, there are still many problems of access to employment for roma, homosexuals, muslims and jews. the need to increase participation in the labour market in the future and the safety of workers are also fundamental to creating the conditions for a better work-life balance and for greater social cohesion and welfare of citizens.
in writing. the employment equality directive, adopted 15 years ago, aims to lead to equality between men and women in the workplace. according to a recent eurobarometer survey, the european population is now more tolerant of groups subject to discrimination than in 2012, and is more aware of their rights in the event of discrimination. however, the directive still has a number of problems and weaknesses in its application. for these reasons, the report examines the challenges to the implementation of the directive and seeks to provide solutions to make it as good as possible. it is our task to promote the union's fundamental principles of equality, human dignity, freedom and democracy. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this own-initiative report assessing the application of the employment equality directive 15 years after its adoption and proposing recommendations for further improvements. we particularly appreciate that it has chosen to focus on the more important aspects such as discrimination based on sex, ethnicity, religion but also on personal beliefs, age, sexual orientation or disability. we are pleased to note that in the 15 years since the directive came into force, some member states have produced legislation that is even more advanced, even beyond the requirements of the european standard, and that, from the point of view of civil society, there is greater attention to social groups traditionally at risk of discrimination by european citizens, who now also have better and more extensive information on rights. however, it is undeniable that challenges in terms of integration and discrimination in the labour market still exist today, also as a result of the arrival or intensification of phenomena of transformation in our society, such as migratory flows. for this reason, a reform proposal from the european commission is absolutely desirable, as indicated in the report.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate the work done in trying to produce a text that would include all the different positions and better regulate a fundamental pillar of what will be an increasingly integrated and open european labour market. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and would vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report assesses the state of play of the implementation of the employment equality directive 15 years after its adoption and makes recommendations for future improvements. some member states have succeeded in ensuring even better conditions than those required by the directive, and more and more european citizens are showing tolerance towards groups at risk of discrimination and are more aware of their rights. however, issues remain to be resolved, such as the lack of reporting of discrimination and the still limited access to information and justice. the report calls on the social partners (trade unions and employers) and civil society, in particular associations and equality organisations, to do more to make the principle of non-discrimination in the world of work effective, starting with the search for a better work-life balance. there is still a long way to go to achieve full equality in the world of work, but the road is the right one and i therefore support the demands of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a fairly critical own-initiative report on the application of the egf for the period 2007-2014. in particular, it is emphasised that egf assistance cases are often linked to the restructuring strategies of large companies and multinationals, without adequate involvement of workers and their representatives. in view of the excellence of the egf in terms of transparency and efficiency, the member states receiving the egf are encouraged to publish all data and case evaluations and to make public their final applications and reports in a timely manner, and the commission is invited to make public all documents related to egf intervention cases, as well as to carry out in-depth ex ante and ex post impact assessments including social, employment and economic aspects. in this context, it strongly condemns any attempt to treat the egf as an intervention instrument for jobs lost in the eu as a result of trade strategies decided at eu level and calls on the commission to grant market economy status only to trading partners that meet the five criteria it has set. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. created by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, it has quickly become a major social reintegration measure, with success rates ranging from 4% to 98% depending on the sector. the egf has included in its scope workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, self-employed workers and neet shares in certain pre-determined regions. it is a tool with great added value for strengthening the social dimension of the union: i have therefore decided to support the harkin report. europe must increasingly ensure that its citizens have better living and working conditions. the european social model must be promoted to an ever-increasing extent, with the quality of public services, protection and social dialogue at its core.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the harkin report, which critically analyses the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) between 2007 and 2014. i think it is of paramount importance to make this fund more accessible to smes and young people, who are among the main victims of the eu's insane trade policy. that is why i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ as an instrument for adjustment to economic prospects and labour market needs, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended as targeted aid for redundant workers and self-employed workers who are subject to redundancies due to the effects of economic restructuring. an initiative to promote the development of a europe capable of creating socioeconomic policies tailored to its citizens, accompanied by economic transformations and restructuring linked to globalisation and changes in trade trends on international markets. the adjustment fund also leads us today to stress the importance of strengthening the social dimension of the eu, with harmonised social protection schemes, as recently proposed by the italian government. i believe that it is precisely in the principle of shared responsibility, as the report on the vote stressed, and in line with the prerogatives of the s&d group, that the ability to find flexible solutions to respond promptly to economic changes and to absorb their negative effects lies.
in writing. ‒ the egf was established by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 to provide solidarity for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of massive redundancies, as a result of major structural changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, where such redundancies have a significant negative impact on the regional or local economy. over time it has become an important tool for social reintegration, with success rates ranging from 4% to 98% depending on the sector, and a number of stakeholders exceeding 20,000 units with positive repercussions on the territories and on the training-reorganisation chains related to the interventions. for all these reasons, the european globalisation adjustment fund is a useful instrument, to be preserved and strengthened, which represents a concrete response of solidarity and social cohesion to the great changes that the globalised world brings to the market and european society of the 21st century.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument of support and solidarity for workers who are losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. by launching this instrument, the eu has shown its solidarity with particularly vulnerable workers, especially those who have been most affected by the negative consequences of globalisation and are still suffering from the economic and financial crisis. cases requiring egf assistance increasingly concern the restructuring strategies of large companies and multinationals. these policies are, in most cases, decided without the involvement of the workers and their representatives. with the start of the new eu programming cycle, the egf was re-proposed as a fully autonomous financial instrument: it operates outside the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs harkin is quite critical of the activities, impact and added value of the egf for the period 2007-2014. the european commission is also criticised for providing disappointing answers to parliamentary resolutions on information and consultation of workers and the fact that the commission's biennial reports do not fully guarantee the transparency and efficiency of the egf is also highlighted. it also calls for all possible efforts to be made to speed up the procedures, as the average duration of an egf application is currently 41 weeks. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european union must show solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the mass redundancies caused by structural changes in the economic fabric as a result of globalisation. i voted in favour of the report which gives a positive account of the first seven years of application of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i appreciate that the average rate of reintegration of the beneficiaries of the programme is 49% and i am convinced that further promotion of personalised and intensive support for redundant workers can make this figure even more positive. the egf has certainly contributed to social cohesion in recent years, helping large groups of people in dire need of assistance, producing positive effects for the families of the beneficiaries and the wider community. i welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to present counterfactual impact assessments (cias) which can provide further information on the european added value that the egf can offer. i regret that some member states have used significant amounts of egf funding to offset national income support schemes for workers and that the procedures for egf approval are still too slow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the requests made by my colleague. in line with the report, i believe that the commission should clarify that job losses caused by trade disputes which cause a major change in the level of trade in goods or services in the eu fall fully within the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i also think that the egf has provided added value for the eu when it has been used to co-finance services for redundant workers or benefits not normally provided for by the unemployment benefit systems of the member states. however, i regret that these mechanisms have often replaced, rather than supplemented, the obligations of the member states towards redundant workers. i would therefore ask the commission to be more rigid on this point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 because it stresses the need to refocus the egf more towards sme workers, also by raising the eligibility thresholds, on the assumption that smes represent 99% of all eu enterprises and employ the majority of workers in the union. the importance of further stimulating self-employment through the use of dedicated grants and incentives, including lifelong learning, mentoring and peer-to-peer networks, is also stressed. the report also encourages member states to emphasise the inclusion of women in programmes to promote entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a support and solidarity instrument for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade and aims to promote sustainable employment by preparing and assisting the unemployed for new work. the european parliament resolution which i voted for points out that the european adaptation fund has improved its functioning thanks to the reforms which have also simplified the procedures for member states to access the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not consider the measure in question to be a useful tool for developing policies that promote growth and job creation, nor to be able to give an exhaustive answer as regards redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which calls for all possible measures to facilitate access to these resources for smes and young people.
in writing. ‒ the text we have approved, which i fully supported, sets out an important political balance sheet of the use of one of the european funds of greatest relevance to citizens. with the globalisation adjustment fund, europe has sought to provide itself with a tool to provide support and solidarity for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of industrial change and developments in world trade, a phenomenon which has unfortunately been steadily increasing in recent years. among the most important political points, i would like to emphasize the call to the european institutions, as a preventive measure and to advance the disbursement of the fund (before company restructuring) to ensure common instruments for the participation, consultation and information of workers on the main strategies of companies, in line with what was stated earlier in the committee on legal affairs and the committee on employment.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the european parliament resolution on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014, because i think the egf is really one of the most important eu programmes. it is the only eu assistance for workers who lose their jobs and is one of the most visible and visible forms of the added value and importance of eu membership. a fund that pursues smart policies, looks at training and retraining, promotes interinstitutional social dialogue and looks after the fate of those who lose their jobs because of the crisis, globalisation, trade agreements and mass redundancies. i am convinced that the range of beneficiaries can still be widened and that procedures at national level can be simplified, perhaps by allowing local authorities to apply directly for the activation of the measure. i hope that the member states will increase the funds for this programme in the next mff and that the commission will decide to open up this funding to those forms of enterprise, such as the social economy enterprises, which are currently excluded, by providing adequate human resources to further streamline the disbursement procedures.
in writing. the european adaptation fund was set up in 2006 to show solidarity with those who have lost their jobs during the structural changes in the world of trade, mainly due to the process of globalisation. the fund was also extended to redundant workers as a result of the financial and economic crisis from 2013 onwards. the report now wants to analyse the period from 2007 to 2014 in order to examine the results. as a result of this analysis, we have positively assessed its functioning and recognised the important added value it has represented during these years of implementation in terms of aid, support, recovery and training.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 because, once again, i am a firm supporter of the principles of gender equality and non-discrimination, which are among the union’s core values and which need to be safeguarded and promoted. aside from that, i consider that eu citizens should have access to training and retraining, job-search assistance, mentoring, entrepreneurship promotion, and business start-ups. i also want to highlight the importance of favourable working conditions, including decent working wages.
in writing. ‒ to make the most of the great opportunities offered by globalisation, we must first of all be able to mitigate its effects. this is why we welcome the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the fund has proved to be an important instrument of solidarity for workers who have suffered massive redundancies as a result of structural changes in world trade, through assistance, retraining and reintegration, and the promotion of entrepreneurial activity. the report also stresses the need to pay attention to the impact of trade policies and agreements on the european labour market, stresses the importance of social dialogue and urges the commission to ensure that job losses are only a last resort. the response to globalisation cannot and must not be one of suspicion and closure, but must be seen as a great opportunity which requires active adaptation to reap its benefits, keeping the achievements of the european social model and the protection of workers as firm reference points.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur and confirm that i would express my favourable opinion of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument that provides direct support to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in international trade relations and the process of globalisation. over time, the criteria for accessing this support have broadened to include workers excluded from the world of production as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this report analyses the activity, impact and added value of the fund between 2007 and 2014. the s&d group succeeded in including a number of priorities and recommendations which have greatly improved the text. these include the need to pay greater attention to the impact of trade policies and agreements on the european labour market; calls on the commission to ensure that adequate staff is available for the management of the fund, in order to avoid delays in the implementation of the operations; the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to give greater weight to the social dialogue in the case of company restructuring. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activity, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for people who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. in addition, the scope of the fund has been extended to include workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis of 2009-2011 and, to this end, has been further extended to include self-employed workers affected by the crisis between 2014 and 2020. it is important that the european union should do more and more to help workers in difficulty.
authors madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i know that the commissioner is late - not by his own fault - but i am sure that he will join us at the end of our speeches. first of all, however, i would like to express, also on behalf of the committee on culture, our displeasure that this debate, as we had originally requested, should have taken place at a much more appropriate time this week. it was not possible and we had agreed on the first week of october. it is absolutely unfair that on monday, without informing the committee on culture, let alone the undersigned, the presidency decided to propose another agenda which sees our debate moved forward to thursday afternoon, preventing many colleagues from the committee on culture from participating, as they would have liked. i have a duty to say this, because this must not happen again. i would also like to say, as i go into the matter, that we are in the middle of european sports week, the second edition after last year's. i would like to remind you that we inaugurated it with commissioner navracsics and the slovak presidency on 10 september in košice, and it has reached an important stage because it is becoming an important event for young people, associations, all european sportsmen, but also for those who are involved not only in sports but also in physical and amateur activities. it is also interesting to see how the well-chosen 'be active' motto has been activated in many forms in european cities, starting with those involved in the good experience of european sports capitals and cities. we share the commissioner's announcement that the date of the european week will be moved forward from next year in order to involve schools more and to provide greater organisational capacity, but he will have to take more account of the european dimension of this initiative, and therefore its transnational character, by getting european citizens used to doing it with national flags, but also with the european one, as elisa di francisca did effectively in rio at the olympics. in this spirit we have promoted many initiatives, including one here in strasbourg, the 'run for art' exhibition, and then on 27 september there will be a conference promoted with many colleagues, also preparing the report of the parliament's culture committee by mr takkula on the universal language of sport. it is a language that is giving us extraordinary emotions these days at the paralympic games in rio, with young people asking to be seen as athletes, not as disabled, and with the gold medals won yesterday by great athletes, among whom i remember alex zanardi. unfortunately, there is also the other side of the coin, there is a dark side of sport which parliament has already addressed in the first fisas report in 2011 and which we now want to address together with the issue of good governance, integrity and also accessibility in the takkula report. we know that the manipulation of sports competitions, linked to illegal betting, increasingly online, is manifesting itself in scandals that have mainly affected football but unfortunately not only, also for example tennis and other sports and constitute a real threat to the integrity, fair competition and credibility of national and european sport. i recall that in december 2012 the culture committee held a public hearing on this very subject, on the fight against match-fixing and financial fair play, and in march 2013 it also adopted a resolution on the subject. i am pleased that in the same year the council of ministers authorised the european commission - and this is an important development of the lisbon treaty - to participate on behalf of the european union in the negotiations which then went ahead with a process which led to the proposal for ratification of the council of europe convention against the manipulation of sports competitions, which was opened in 2014 for signature by individual member states. what are we asking for in our question? we ask the commission to overcome the remaining difficulties which prevent all the member states from signing and ratifying this important convention, and above all to take these steps on the part of all - i very much hope that the slovak presidency, but also the next maltese presidency, which is directly concerned - so that we really do not say harmonization, but at least common rules which allow us, in the face of what is now a transborder crime, which goes beyond national countries, national states and europe itself, to be able to take joint initiatives, because this is precisely the dimension and we must be absolutely able to take up this challenge by promoting common programmes of education, prevention, investigation and punishing rules harmonized with criminal matters - a real black economy of our own - and the criminals have created this absolutely illegal betting market. i therefore believe that at this point it is also necessary to harmonize the rules of the gambling industry, which is one of the obstacles to the accession of certain countries to this convention. this step is necessary. in conclusion, whatever action the commissioner and the commission take in this area, including cultural and educational action, they will certainly find us ready to help and support these initiatives. i hope, of course, that all the member states will take part in it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are respected, and that the commission is able to take action in this area. match-fixing is often the preserve of organized crime operating on a global scale. this is a problem that has become a priority for the sports movement and law enforcement authorities worldwide. i very much appreciate the fact that european funds have been allocated to public-private partnerships for the implementation of projects aimed at identifying risk factors for match-fixing and developing tools for their management. i also very much appreciate the european regulations on online gambling and the creation of a european discussion platform for national gambling regulators, but that is not enough. the european union must play a greater role in the fight against match-fixing. we have two organizations in europe that deal with crossborder cooperation in the investigation and prosecution of serious crime: europol and eurojust. the commission can invite these agencies to cooperate more closely with the sports movement and to pay more attention to match-fixing. member states should implement measures to prevent conflicts of interest between betting operators and sports organisations and to encourage sports betting regulators to step up the fight against fraud and illegal betting. the european parliament has on several occasions emphasized its commitment to combating match-fixing, reiterating its full support for the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions, which in my view represents the best instrument and legal framework for fighting illegal sports betting at international level. i think it is essential that the european union and its member states are involved in setting up a monitoring system and developing operational cooperation within the framework of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions from the moment it comes into force. i would remind you that article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union calls on the union and the member states to promote cooperation with international organisations in the field of sport, in particular with the council of europe. european union action can make a decisive contribution to addressing the transnational challenges facing sport in europe, such as match-fixing, which require joint efforts and a coordinated approach. one of the main objectives of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions is to promote national and international cooperation. chapter 3 of the convention contains a number of provisions to facilitate the exchange of information between all the parties concerned. the fight against match-fixing requires close cooperation between sports movements, governments, betting operators, law enforcement authorities and international organisations, and such a wide range of stakeholders is a challenge in itself. the european union can help to create unity and ensure a more coordinated approach. the member states are at different stages of developing measures to combat match-fixing. the transnational nature of match-fixing is likely to involve cooperation between member states with different levels of experience, creating the need for sharing of good practices and developing skills. in this respect, the european union plays an important role in developing capacity as a catalyst for cooperation and ultimately as a support for the implementation of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions. there is broad support from member states to facilitate the early entry into force of the convention, and some are ready to ratify it but have simply been unable to do so because of procedural issues all internal to the european union. i would therefore ask the commission what further steps it intends to take to break this deadlock and to enable the member states which played a key role in the preparation of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions to sign and ratify it as soon as possible.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to have to say that for the umpteenth time we are witnessing a lack of real will to change and a tendency to put off everything, even when it is most necessary, as always. delaying the entry into force of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions seems to me a missed opportunity to restore the lost confidence of the public in the world of sport, particularly at a time when scandals are being reported almost daily in the vast majority of sports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we were already calling for a change of direction, something that would bring the world of sport back to its true and basic vocation, which is to aggregate, to unite, a return to the culture of sport, which embodies those values of equality, loyalty and social inclusion that are the basis of civil society. in recent years, the increased commercialisation of sporting events and their media exposure have fostered a substantial increase in economic interests, turning any sporting competition into a mere means of achieving ever greater profits. criminal organizations, of course, have seen the potential for profit and have started to act, first nationally, then transnationally, making surveillance extremely complex. the recent scandals have shown that the efforts and measures taken so far have not had the desired effect and that the reason is the lack of cooperation between the various countries. to avoid, like don quixote, continuing to fight against windmills, we need teamwork based on the sharing of information and best practice. i have been informed by the president of the rugby intergroup of a remarkable initiative: keep rugby onside is an online information portal to educate and protect players, coaches and match officials from the dangers of betting and match-fixing. i therefore ask the commission, when it comes, to do everything in its power to overcome this impasse and to bring about the early entry into force of the convention, which is the first real step towards greater cooperation in the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions. i would remind you that the failure to ratify international conventions because of the opposition of one or more member states in the council, in cases as worthy as this, is a real insult to the 500 million citizens we represent. in this house, enormous pressure is exerted and enormous sacrifices are demanded in the name of a general interest of the union, but strangely enough, when the interests at stake are those of the european citizens, too often this house is silent. the deafening silence of many in the case of the shameful, for example, non-ratification of the marrakesh treaty is just one of the many examples that are added and repeated today with the convention on the manipulation of sports.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me remind you about the history of the ratification of the convention, which was declared open for signature in september 2014. the proposal for the signature by the eu of the convention has been one of the priorities of the new commission, and a matter of particular importance to me. on 2 march 2015 the commission submitted a proposal for the signing of the convention on behalf of the eu. this proposal took the form of two council decisions, one with regard to matters related to substantive criminal law and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and one on other matters, such as cooperation between sports organisations, betting operators and state administrations. under the latvian and luxembourg presidencies in 2015, discussions took place within the council on these proposals for signature. while the contents of the proposals were agreed at coreper in november 2015, the proposals were blocked as the council requested confirmation of a common accord by all member states before proceeding to a vote. this allows one member state to continue blocking the process. the commission disagrees with this approach. the applicable procedure and voting is clear: the treaty clearly stipulates qualified majority voting for this kind of council decision. the court of justice has also confirmed in a recent judgment that the rules regarding the manner in which the eu institutions arrive at their decisions are laid down by the treaties and are not at the disposal of the member states or of the institutions themselves. however, this viewpoint was not shared during the discussions in coreper in november 2014 when the presidency refused to proceed to a vote. this is a question which the council and the presidency must find a solution to. despite the efforts of the dutch presidency, they were unable to find a compromise which would enable a breakthrough. the commission regrets the current stalemate. the commission is fully aware of the benefits of the convention, and we would like it to enter into force as soon as possible. for the convention to come into force, five signatories must ratify it and three of those five have to be council of europe members. to date, there are two such ratifications. if there is no agreement in the council, the convention will enter into force without the eu and most eu member states being on board. that would be a regrettable situation. given the nature of the convention, which links matters of national competence with eu competence, including exclusive eu competence, the commission considers that a coordinated approach to the signature and ratification of the convention by member states remains necessary in accordance with the principle of sincere cooperation. the commission adds its voice to the call by the honourable member for all parties to continue to seek a solution. the commission, for its part, will continue its efforts to convince all member states to support the signature and ratification process. we will use all opportunities to underline the importance of eu participation in this convention. we fully support the convention as a valuable tool in the fight against match-fixing. for the states that choose to ratify it, it will be the first legally binding international tool to fight match-fixing – representing a solid basis for ensuring pan-european coordination and cooperation in the fight against match-fixing. the commission needs your support in trying to find a breakthrough. i would like to thank you for the positive contributions you made during the debate. it is not an easy task to fight complex issues like match-fixing. the convention is, indeed, an important tool but we must continue to look at match-fixing from all angles. in the commission, colleagues dealing with sport, betting, organised crime and corruption will continue to work closely in this field. we will continue to finance projects to fight against match-fixing and to raise awareness about the problem. there is also an eu-funded pilot project which supports four major activities, including one preparing member states for the entry into force of the convention. we count on your support to help the council find a way to overcome the current stalemate and enable the member states and the eu to sign and ratify the convention as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before moving on to this week's agenda, i have asked for the floor to recall 3 october 2013, a day on which many migrants lost their lives off lampedusa. this day is remembered as a day of remembrance and welcome for all the people who lose their lives when they leave their country and also to remember those who help these people. i asked that this day be remembered here in the chamber.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr neuser on the excellent work he has done in his report, a report which we voted in favour of in the committee on development and with which we share the urgency in drawing up and giving the european parliament a position on the future of the cotonou agreement after 2020. we recognize that too often the european parliament has been late in making its position known on issues and topics that bring together trade, human rights and development. we too expressed our desire to make the acp-eu partnership effective and adapt it to the present and future challenges. although we are in favour of mr neuser's approach, we must always remember that in the four years to 2020 the changing conditions could lead to the positions in the report being overtaken. so, assuming that the present situation is that we have not been able to address the very serious problems caused by the direct and indirect interests of the various european states and multinationals and not in the acp countries, we need a solid legal framework with instruments capable of adequately addressing the very serious problems of the areas for which the agreement with the acp countries was intended to be a valid solution. we should be so forward-thinking that we think of the new partnership as tailors who can create a tailor-made garment to meet the goals of the un 2030 agenda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 40 years the eu-acp cooperation framework has made a major contribution to strengthening the links between the peoples and parliaments of the respective countries. as the cotonou agreement approaches its end, our cooperation must be re-dated and calibrated to meet the new challenges of the millennium. a new structure is therefore needed which preserves parts of the eu-acp acquis and preserves its essential elements. human rights, gender equality, democratic principles and the rule of law must form the core values of this new agreement, together with good governance. political dialogue must remain a central legal pillar. articles 8 and 96 must also be given greater attention in order to preserve crises and conflicts, as mr neuser has stressed. i also call for a stronger parliamentary dimension, but also for the involvement of civil society.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cotonou partnership agreement between the european union and the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states was signed in 2000. over the past 16 years, we have seen the partnership countries and stakeholders strive to strengthen the three complementary pillars of the agreement - the political and economic dimension, trade cooperation and development cooperation - in order to eradicate poverty and promote the acp states in the world economy. we congratulate ourselves on the results achieved so far. i regret, however, that the european development fund is a financial instrument outside the general budget of the union and we strongly urge that the european parliament be given a stronger role in post-cotonou decisions in the future. in some african countries there is growing tension for political reasons. the increase in food and nutritional insecurity, drought and immigration are among the issues that the future treaty will have to address. i also hope that the integration of young people will be considered one of the main issues to be addressed in the forthcoming agreements.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cotonou agreement is a valuable platform for cooperation between the european union and the acp countries. it is important because of the considerable number of countries taking part, but also because of the precious ties established between the peoples concerned. however, the achievements in the field of poverty eradication and the integration of the acp countries into the world economy are still too little, too little. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals will need to set the roadmap for closer cooperation that takes into account the challenges that have arisen in the meantime. the need to ensure that human rights are given greater prominence and political dialogue is strengthened in the post-2020 period is, for example, an issue that cannot be underestimated. it is also of fundamental importance to establish, within a legally binding common framework, sound monitoring mechanisms to safeguard the actual implementation of the agreement. the new cooperation agreement will have to reflect an ambitious political project and make good governance a cornerstone, leaving behind the harmful donor-beneficiary mentality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about a million people are in urgent need of humanitarian aid in lebanon, and half of them are children. lebanon is a country that is making enormous efforts to deal with the humanitarian crisis that has struck it, and it is doing so perhaps with more courage than europe, which, as we all know, is proportionately hosting far fewer refugees, and many of these efforts are aimed specifically at children. in lebanon, syrian children can go to school, but only on paper, because unfortunately human rights watch describes a situation that is very difficult in reality. more than half of the 500,000 syrian children are denied access to education, and granting a right is not always the same as guaranteeing it. the extreme poverty of syrian families and the difficulty of accessing employment and housing all weigh on the future of these children who have already experienced the worst that this world has to offer. lebanon - but i believe it is a moral duty of europe - must guarantee these children the opportunity to one day fight with the strength of culture that enemy so ignorant that today forced them to leave their homes and their country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too recently had the opportunity to take part, with the committee on budgetary control, in a mission to lebanon and jordan, visiting the refugee camps in which syrian refugees live. the situation is more dramatic than one can imagine, especially with regard to the situation of children, because, if the estimates are correct, some 250 000 children will not have access to education and will thus be denied a fundamental right for their growth and, above all, for a dignified future. many, perhaps too many times in this house have we discussed the migration crisis and its terrible consequences, especially for children. the situation of children must now be put concretely at the top of the political agenda of cooperation in the european union. only in this way can we give real hope to children and avoid the lost generation phenomenon that the younger generation of syrians are at risk of encountering. i hope that in this context, support for educational programmes for syrian children in lebanon will be renewed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the syrian refugee crisis in lebanon is an unending emergency. according to a human rights watch report on the plight of syrian refugee children in lebanon, 250,000 children are reportedly denied access to education. only 3% of children in the last year attended a lebanese public school. the lebanese government's efforts to ensure a minimum of education for syrian children are insufficient. public schools are turning away children with disabilities for lack of resources, and many families with expired residence permits cannot send their children to school for fear of being arrested. access to education is crucial to help and give a future to this new generation, but also to overcome the signs of so much violence. international financial support for projects to expand the education programme is essential, but concrete policy action to foster reception is also needed. the risk is that otherwise the hopes of young syrians trapped by the war in lebanon will also be dashed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my indignation at the genocide of children that is taking place in syria, where there is no respect for hospitals or for innocent victims. as regards the right of children to education in lebanon - i would remind you that lebanon is hosting more refugees than the whole of europe - i have to say that we launched the educa campaign some time ago, and i am glad that the commission raised it, and we have now raised an additional eur 52 million to exceed the paltry 2% of humanitarian aid currently going to the education of children in these situations of refugees or displacement. i think it is also important to remember that if we want to avoid a lost generation, we must make more efforts - as i also ask the commission - to ensure that all the member states to which we have sent an official request as the committee on culture and education of the european parliament adopt the proposal for educational corridors, that is to say, to open up european and euro-mediterranean universities to young people and students who are at risk of missing out on the entire cycle of studies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right that our colleagues should remember the massacre of children in aleppo, and it is also right that they should remember the efforts being made by lebanon, which alone hosts a greater number of refugees than we welcomed in europe last year. the human rights watch report, from july this year, says that more than half of the nearly 500,000 syrian children registered in lebanon are, however, out of the school system. some of them have been out since they arrived five years ago. despite the efforts of the lebanese government and donors, lack of resources and restrictive residency requirements limit opportunities to access education and deliver them to the scourge of child labor. education is a right and must be considered a priority in these contexts, as it ensures a guarantee of protection and a sense of normality for children, precisely at the time when they are most vulnerable. postponing educational activities until after the emergency and crisis is over means risking never returning to school, often condemning them to a future of poverty. commissioner stylianides said he intended to make the eu the first international donor to reach 4% of humanitarian aid spending for education in emergencies. so, starting with support for lebanon, we need to do more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our declared and declared objective is to end hunger and malnutrition in the world by 2030. the united nations secretary-general, ban ki-moon, will probably remind us of this tomorrow by his presence here in strasbourg. unfortunately, however, the stated objective seems to be out of reach. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, would you agree with me that we are today far behind the target? do you not think that if we continue at this pace, we will never be able to reach it? it is absurd that we should still have to witness the daily and punctual exploitation of people and land by private interests for their own exclusive benefit, with no regard for the lives of others. we must increase our efforts on issues related to food and global food security. we need to make a serious commitment to revive and support smallholder farmers and local food production, to develop agricultural policies that are effective and resilient, to ensure access to land and to stop land grabbing once and for all. if we are to try to achieve this, the way forward is to guarantee food sovereignty to those who should be the main beneficiaries, namely the local population. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the instability of agricultural commodity markets, population growth and changing diets globally, environmental constraints on food production and the consequences of climate change are all elements that make up a new scarcity scenario. in this scenario, agriculture is called upon to play a leading role in the increasingly pressing global challenge of access to food, not only from a production perspective, but also for its ability to generate employment and stability in the most marginalized areas of the planet. a role recognised by the united nations itself, which has placed food security at the heart of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. commissioner, this is a global issue and it must be dealt with as such. a genuine global food policy is therefore needed and europe must take on a leading role which it has unfortunately only announced so far, a leading role in defining inclusive and innovative development measures that guarantee social and territorial cohesion, involving the groups hitherto considered most vulnerable in decision-making and governance processes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today some 800 million people, most of them in rural areas, are still hungry and more than 2 billion are malnourished. with the new sustainable development goals, we committed not only to ending chronic hunger, but also to working towards greater food security and fighting malnutrition, because once the need for food is met, it's the quality and variety of the diet that you have to look at. to do that, fao tells us that we would need $267 billion a year in investment. it would only be 0.3% of world gdp to diversify crops, invest seriously in rural people, especially smallholder farmers, and promote sustainable agriculture. if we don't want the new sdgs to remain on paper, we need more resources - that's what we're asking for - and we also need a european framework for the implementation of the sdgs. coordination between the commission and the member states on this is essential, because they are universal objectives, and i ask the commissioner when we will finally have this european framework on the implementation of the new development objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainable development goal of the un agenda aims to end world hunger by 2030 through increased productivity of smallholder farmers and the promotion of sustainable agriculture. however, it must be acknowledged that simply ensuring greater production and availability of food is not enough to solve the problem. the latest data available tells us that over 159 million children worldwide suffer from stunted growth. in this context, the implementation of the european policies developed by the commission's action plan on nutrition should be implemented. food and nutrition security requires constant strategic attention and support for investment, especially in rural areas. policy development and programming must take account of the links between nutrition, health and job creation, growth and sustainable production. the european union must work strategically to create the conditions for combating food waste and for the development of sustainable and quality agriculture, with particular reference to support for small and micro-farms.
i would like to thank commissioner vella for his commitment and for his replies. there are countries where the rate of illegal logging reaches 90%, involving corruption throughout the logging, transport and sale chain. the objectives set out in the action plan are still hampered by a multitude of factors, including the resistance to change in the forestry sector, the delay in the application of the european regulation, the importance of other markets such as china and india, and the boom in agricultural raw materials whose production occupies forest land. extensive agriculture plays a key role in the deforestation process, considering that since 2000, about half of the tropical forest has been converted to agricultural land or monoculture plantations, often against the will of the indigenous populations, as is the case with palm oil in indonesia, liberia and ecuador. it is estimated that 80% of global deforestation is now caused by agriculture and by importing products such as palm oil, beef, leather, soybeans, rubber, cocoa and timber, the european union is also contributing to this problem. the environmental damage caused by deforestation cannot be underestimated. in addition to the very serious loss of biodiversity, deforestation is one of the main causes of hydrogeological disruption and causes floods and landslides. the eu therefore needs to demonstrate and continue to demonstrate a strong political commitment to the effective implementation of the voluntary partnership agreements, to enhance their impact, to ensure the effective implementation of the timber regulation and to take further measures to support the protection and recovery of forest ecosystems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of climate change, forests are becoming the only ally for the protection of the lives and well-being of millions of human beings. they are also the most important reservoir of biodiversity and a building block for indigenous communities and farmers worldwide. europe remains the number one destination for illegal timber trade and it is therefore crucial that there is a real commitment across the union in the coming years to ensure that flegt does not remain a voluntary commitment in trade agreements. we need binding commitments to regulate the activities of governments and multinationals and at the same time to stop the system of corruption. it is essential that the flegt reform explicitly prohibits trade in timber from conflict zones, providing for a system of sanctions up to the withdrawal of import licences and the suspension of free trade agreements or preferential tariffs for multinationals and states that violate the embargo. finally, we consider the system of voluntary monitoring of forestry investment by multinational companies in agriculture and the financial sector to be inadequate. instead, effective regulation and due diligence mechanisms are needed to curb illegal activities and provide hope for the planet's green lungs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, because of the important but not dominant position of the european union on the world market for wood products, any measure will be ineffective unless it is shared with the major players in the sector, such as the united states, japan and china. i think the commission should give political impetus to the european union's action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade by completing the creation of a voluntary licensing system to ensure that only legally harvested timber is imported. in order for such a system to function properly, flegt partner countries should ensure that reliable systems and structures are in place for the correct identification and certification of the cut timber link. on the financial side, the commission should integrate the initiatives under the flegt programme into the main european development cooperation programmes in order to be able to implement technical assistance and capacity development programmes in the timber producing partner countries.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance in accordance with rule 163.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by 2020, in order to keep pace with europe, italy will have to ensure inclusive growth by creating 2.8 million new jobs and lifting some 2.2 million people out of poverty or deprivation. unfortunately, eight italian regions are still far from reaching the national target set for 2020, and the regions with the greatest difficulties are all those in the mezzogiorno, with a gap to be filled ranging from 8.4% in abruzzo to 23.9% in campania and 24.9% in calabria. a major action plan needs to be put in place, a plan that includes reforms and investments in social housing, physical and digital infrastructure, and educational infrastructure. the italian government, especially in recent times, is doing a lot to improve the country's conditions for development and job creation, but it is clear that europe's contribution is also needed to achieve the goals set out in the europe 2020 strategy. a more flexible and expansionary economic policy is needed to enable our country to overcome its difficulties and achieve its objectives.
that concludes the point.
member of the commission. – mr president, following the path set out by the council in its roadmap from 2009, the commission presented two packages of legislative proposals strengthening procedural safeguards for eu citizens in criminal proceedings. the first was in 2010, on the right to translation and interpretation, the right to information, and the right to access a lawyer. later, in 2013, we proposed the directive to strengthen the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial, the directive on special safeguards for children suspected or accused of a crime, and the directive on the right to provisional legal aid. and this is the proposal you are going to vote on tomorrow, as the last piece missing from the system of procedural rights. i think we can all agree that there is no point in rights if you cannot really take advantage of them. what is the right of access to a lawyer worth, if you cannot afford a lawyer? in other words, access to justice and a fair trial must not be something which is only for rich people. i would like to thank your rapporteur, mr de jong, and the shadow rapporteurs for their dedicated work on this issue, which made an agreement on this directive possible after long and very difficult negotiations. the directive is an important step forward in the construction of an area of justice in the european union. today there are large disparities in the way legal aid is provided in the european union. the directive, once adopted, will significantly strengthen the procedural safeguards for all citizens in criminal proceedings. the scope of the directive covers those situations where legal aid is needed most: when persons are deprived of liberty, during a number of crucial evidence-gathering acts, and in cases of mandatory defence by a lawyer. as proposed by the commission, legal aid will also be granted at the very early stages of proceedings when persons are most vulnerable, especially during police questioning.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the directive on access to legal aid, the european union is taking another significant step forward in recognising the right of citizens to a fair trial. the extension of the procedural guarantees granted to suspects and accused persons is in fact a conquest of civilization, which unfortunately has not been implemented in a uniform manner by all the member states. this was clearly a gap to be filled in order to ensure the proper application of the treaty provisions on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we have greatly appreciated the tenacity with which the rapporteur has defended parliament's position in the interinstitutional negotiations, and i thank him for that. we are pleased with the result achieved, particularly with the fact that, at least from a regulatory point of view, a minimum level of legal aid at the expense of the state is guaranteed in all the member states. it is also a real success for parliament, and in particular for its negotiating team, to have obtained in the trilogue the extension of the scope of the directive, providing for the right to ordinary legal assistance as well as to provisional legal aid. finally, we hope that, in addition to the prompt transposition of the directive in all the member states, there will be a concrete commitment to find the financial resources necessary to ensure the effective recognition of the right to legal aid.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i have listened carefully to the speech by mr zdechovski, who is in favour of the harmonisation of criminal procedural law, and i would like to ask him whether he thinks that in the future it would be appropriate to harmonise certain provisions of substantive criminal law and to consider a uniform european criminal code.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mr de jong and the shadow rapporteurs for the hard work they have put in over the past few months, and the hard work that has led to the text we are discussing today. the vote tomorrow closes the circle of measures for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings which were part of the roadmap launched by the commission in 2009, including the one for juvenile suspects and accused persons for which i had the honour of being rapporteur. i think i can understand everyone's feeling when i say that we can be satisfied with the work we have been able to do. we have added a further element to the harmonization of criminal law, to improve judicial cooperation within the european union and to strengthen the trust between judicial authorities necessary for the purpose of mutual recognition. beyond these purely technical aspects, however, i would also like to stress the particular political and social importance of this report, which helps to bridge the wide gaps between the legal systems. increasing the level of procedural guarantees will help to strengthen the sense of belonging to the union. the establishment of minimum standards for legal aid will enable those who are suspected or accused of having insufficient resources to cover the costs of the assistance of a lawyer through the intervention of the state, in accordance with a principle of justice which leaves no one behind. it is particularly significant that the scope has been extended to include all types of legal aid in criminal proceedings and that the right to legal aid has been guaranteed to persons subject to proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant, both in the member states issuing the warrant and in the member states where it is executed. in the light of my previous professional experience, i can only stress that effective legal assistance at all stages of criminal proceedings is an essential guarantee, not only for the protection of the rights of the suspected or accused, but more generally for the fair trial in all member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions requires that the member states cooperate more closely and that they strengthen trust in each other's criminal justice systems, starting with the way in which the rights of suspects and accused persons are protected. the commission's approach has the advantage of providing a guarantee of a minimum level of legal aid at the expense of the state in all member states, but its fragmented nature requires appropriate arrangements to give effect to the rights of the defence. first, guarantees should be provided as to the quality of the legal assistance provided. secondly, the preferences of the suspects, the accused and the requested person must be taken into account as regards the choice of the ombudsman. the same principle applies to the need to ensure continuity in legal representation. it is also important to provide for the possibility of replacing the lawyer of the defence if the accused or the defendant has lost all confidence in his lawyer and is able to justify this with verifiable reasons.
in writing. judicial cooperation in criminal matters faces many difficulties, first and foremost the differences between national legal systems and the jealousy shown by states in maintaining their balance between repressive and safeguarding measures. this also necessarily leads to difficulties in the recognition of the relevant judgments and a road map has therefore been identified which sets out certain basic rights valid throughout the union. the directive introduces the right to legal aid free of charge. the leveling is not done in an ambitious way, but the result obtained is nevertheless satisfactory. it is important that we continue along this path and that we increasingly aim at a homologation of rights that guarantees the highest possible levels of protection.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to approve an update of the regulation on the marketing of goods which can be used for capital punishment or torture, after a demanding trilogue with the council and the commission. i would therefore like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs schaake, for the excellent work she has done together with her office, the inta committee secretariat and parliament's legal service. this work has enabled us to reach a result which we regard positively and which contributes to improving a regulation, the 2005 regulation, which presented in its practical application some loopholes that had prevented its full implementation. we believe it is right and important that the union should ensure that instruments are not marketed which can be used for inhuman and degrading treatment, treatment which is harmful to human dignity. for this very reason, and because i consider it a sign of civilization to ban the death penalty and torture, i take this opportunity to recall the very serious incidents of torture and human rights violations that took place in my country 15 years ago, during the demonstrations against the g8 in genoa. i also remember because i was present in those days, in what amnesty international described as the biggest suspension of democratic rights in a western country since world war ii. fifteen years after these very serious acts, after the judgment of the european court of human rights in strasbourg, which in 2015 condemned italy for the conduct of the police during the raid on the diaz school at the g8 in genoa, where there was a real reprisal to prove the humiliation and physical and moral suffering of the victims, italy has still not adopted a measure that recognizes the crime of torture. i think that this is a very serious matter in this european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what is commonly believed, we europeans have not abolished the death penalty, we have only relocated it. in europe, in fact, people are no longer being killed, but products and medicines made in europe are being used to inflict torture or even the death penalty in unscrupulous countries. since 2005, there has been a regulation that seeks to curb this traffic, but it needed to be updated and, together with my colleagues and led by the rapporteur, mrs schaake, whom i thank, that is exactly what we have done. we have updated the definition of torture, strengthened controls, set up a system for the exchange of information and rapid updating, and even banned the transit of many of these instruments through our territory. the final result does not meet all our requirements, but it is certainly a step forward. to stop the death penalty and torture the 5 star movement votes yes. i wonder what the democratic party will do, which preaches well here in the european parliament but continues to export weapons and instruments of torture from italy to dictatorships.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the negotiations with the council and the commission is a political victory for parliament and the european union as a whole. the proposed legislation is a direct attack on one of the values of the union: support for human rights and the fight against the death penalty. there are two general principles that underlie the question. first, the european union, which is at the forefront of the fight against capital punishment, must be consistent. we are not credible if we claim to protect human rights in distant countries, while allowing our companies to market in those same countries some of the products which contribute to the perpetuation of abuses against human dignity. secondly, the text is consistent with the european trade strategy, a policy aimed at promoting sustainable development and growth, while imposing the principles of protection and social justice on globalisation. our aim is to provide global trade actors with a common rule base to correct and prevent the side effects of globalisation. it is essential that the european union be at the forefront of this battle of civilisations to prevent the changes that are accompanying our era from becoming weapons in the hands of a few, to the disadvantage of the weakest. the ban on the marketing, promotion and transit of these goods responds precisely to this need and i hope that the house will express itself in the most united way possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs to reiterate its leadership role in the international arena in the fight to abolish the death penalty, torture and inhuman and degrading practices that violate human rights. member states must not be complicit, even indirectly, in those who continue to commit acts of torture and ill-treatment in total disregard of the charter of fundamental rights. the european approach must be based on the right combination of prohibitions and authorization requirements for trade in the goods covered by the regulation. it is not enough to simply prohibit the marketing of products which can be used for the purpose of torture and the death penalty. it is also necessary to provide for a system of authorisation of articles intended for multiple uses, which could thus be misused. i think it is appropriate to put in place a strict multilateral export control regime in this sector. particular attention should be paid to medicinal products which can be used for the execution of capital punishment by lethal injection.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. the europe of today is finally the europe we want: the european union is not a europe closed in on itself, but a europe of the world that is faithful to its primary mission, which is to take care of people and the earth. europe must be a project for a better life and not a set of legal arguments. today we have a historic responsibility and we will honour it. but we must do more. we must also make new commitments, translate what is written, decided and agreed, and make even more ambitious commitments. our planet, the earth, was formed billions of years before human life manifested itself. the earth doesn't belong to us. we are the ones who own it and we have a duty to preserve it and pass it on to our children.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too welcome the ratification of the paris agreement by the european union. a necessary step, but still crucial and necessary. unfortunately, we believe that will not be enough. this is just the first step that must force us to keep up the momentum. a first step which must spur us to take new, concrete action to tackle the most important of the challenges for the next few decades. i would like to repeat the words of christiana figueres: "if we don't make a radical change in the next five years, we will have an unacceptable level of human suffering because of poverty". so we must have the courage to abandon an absurd model, based on unlimited growth with limited resources. we must have the courage to replace the word 'growth' with the word 'balance'. and let me quote my nine-year-old son for that, who a while back said to me, "dad, if we're gonna grow up forever, where are we gonna go and bang our heads?" perhaps that is all it takes, perhaps it is enough to look at the world through the eyes of a child, because it is to them that we leave it.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr secretary-general, europe is demonstrating today that it is capable of great things when it is able to combine its energies and strengths. but this paris agreement didn't fall from the sky; it took the best of us to do it. i would therefore like to pay tribute here to the president of the french republic, françois hollande, to the former foreign minister, laurent fabius, and to mrs royal, whose zeal and perseverance i would like to highlight here, since she has constantly reminded us of our work and our duty to ratify. it's a done deal now. a year ago i said in this house that the european union was not going to sign just any agreement and that this agreement should be ambitious, robust and legally binding. it's done today. we are therefore fortunate to be witnessing a movement that will go down in history. i'll tell mr. de graaff that this is not the first or last time you've missed your appointment with history. but history is progress because it is about dealing with, i would say - perhaps too pathetically - one of the great causes of humanity. we are taking our future into our own hands and we can be proud of what we have done. (applause) i would like to thank
council. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing our gratitude and appreciation for the leadership the secretary—general of the united nations has shown in our common effort to agree on this ambitious paris agreement. secondly, i would like to thank him for the ten years of his service to the international community as secretary—general of the united nations. today the european union is clearly reaffirming its commitment to continued climate action. let me thank, therefore, this house, the parliament and the commission for their contribution and exemplary cooperation and to you, president, for your determination and efforts to ensure a speedy ratification of the paris agreement. this commitment is also about our credibility and responsibility and about the role that the european union plays on the global stage. the eu worked hard for many years to shape the new climate action agreement and to make it possible last year in paris. at the extraordinary environment council meeting last friday we worked hard to secure the support of member states for the decision on the eu ratification of the paris agreement. i am glad that later today the council will formally adopt the decision on ratification. i want to assure this house, on behalf of the presidency, that, as of today, we will start vigorously with its implementation. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, as chair of the committee on the environment and rapporteur, i am proud to recommend to the house to give the largest support to the eu ratification of the paris agreement. almost twenty years ago, the kyoto protocol was buried in the us senate. since then, the eu has been leading the international action to fight climate change and has worked hard to make paris a success. today i want to underline that the paris agreement will secure its entry into force in the house of european citizens. it is an historic moment and it is the outcome of great work together: members of the european and national parliaments, the eu member states, the european commission and the council presidencies. in particular, i would like to recognise the work of commissioner arias cañete, with whom i have been in permanent contact during this process. today’s vote shows that the european union delivers on promises made. we must, and we can, hand over to future generations a world that is more stable and prosperous, a healthier and cleaner planet. today we are closer to it. today we can! (applause)
in writing. ‒ to date, only seven member states have ratified the paris agreement. this is why the european commission has pushed for an exceptional mandate to present a single instrument of ratification on behalf of the 28 member states. the extraordinary european council on the environment on 30 september voted on a text amended from the original, which re-assigns the responsibility for meeting emission reduction commitments to the member states and the union. the union's commitment to regularly verify, through legal means, the achievement of the reduction targets set by the member states under the paris agreement has also been removed. as i believe that the agreement is a starting point for dealing with such an important and sensitive issue as climate change, and therefore ratification by all member states is strictly necessary, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the paris agreement at the end of cop21 was a major step in the history of the fight against climate change, a decisive turning point towards effective, collective and global action on one of the most crucial challenges of our time. europe can only assume a leading role in this field, following the commitment already made in recent years and directing its efforts towards the creation of an economy that is both sustainable and competitive, and able to guarantee stability and social equity. i therefore voted strongly in favour of the la via report, which approves the conclusion of the paris agreement and allows the european union to join the 62 parties who have already ratified the agreement. with eu ratification, it will be able to enter into force in time for the cop22 climate conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report analysing the conclusion of the paris agreement under the united nations framework convention on climate change. i believe that with this agreement the eu has committed itself to providing large amounts of finance to developing countries without actually getting anything in return, either from an environmental or an economic point of view, and i am convinced that this will seriously damage the competitiveness of the productive fabric of our territories. at a time of grave economic and social crisis in europe, the union should not conclude agreements which cannot be maintained without demanding further sacrifices from our citizens. for all these reasons i did not support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased with today's vote and the ratification by the european union of the paris agreement, a historic moment because the ratification by the 28 eu member states allows the agreement to enter into force quickly (thanks to the achievement of the necessary quotas: ratification by at least 55 contracting parties representing at least 55% of total emissions). a first step, then, but still crucial and necessary. it is a first step which must now move us to take new, concrete action to tackle the most important of the challenges for the next few decades, otherwise all this may not be enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision to adopt the paris agreement signed in paris on the 12 december 2015, because i firmly believe that the eu is a world leader in fighting climate change. moreover, i think this decision strengthens the global role of the eu. indeed, the council now has the mandate from parliament to ask the member states to ratify the agreement simultaneously with the european union.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is a historically important achievement in the fight against climate change. it marked a turning point towards collective global action to achieve a climate-resilient and zero-climate global economy. it is necessary to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century. the decision to ratify the conclusion of the paris agreement will send a strong signal and underline the ongoing efforts of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level. the formal entry into force of the paris agreement is therefore a key priority for the european union.
in writing. ‒ parliament has sent a strong signal with today's positive vote. as the un secretary-general ban ki-moon, who is present in the european parliament today, said, 'we must seize the opportunity to make history for a better future by allowing the early entry into force of the paris agreement in order to stimulate a more environmentally friendly economy. we must show that we are united in the face of the climate challenge". i now call on the council to take the necessary steps for the ratification of the paris agreement as soon as possible, in conjunction with the parallel national ratification processes in the member states, so as to complete the eu ratification process and deposit the instruments of ratification with the un before the end of 2016. the process of ratification by the council and the member states must be completed, especially in view of the recent ratification by the united states and china and the imminence of cop22 in marrakesh in november. it would be embarrassing for europe to be left out of the decisions that matter in marrakesh and to participate only as an observer, because of internal disputes between member states. we must not weaken the eu's historic and undisputed role in protecting the environment and the planet.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave its consent to the eu ratifying the un climate protection agreement reached in paris nine months ago. the paris agreement on climate change, the first ever binding global climate agreement, will come into force next month, much earlier than expected, thanks to this historic vote. the agreement requires ratification by at least 55 countries representing at least 55% of global emissions to enter into force. while the first condition had already been met, this vote allows the second parameter to be met and thus trigger entry into force. tackling climate change is not only one of the most important challenges of our time, but also an opportunity to build a more sustainable and competitive economy and more stable societies. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the paris agreement is a historically important achievement in the fight against climate change and multilateralism. it guides global action to enable the world to avoid dangerous climate change. the agreement recognises the need to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century. i also share the rapporteur's view that he welcomes the draft proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the paris agreement, which has been tabled by the commission, and believes that it provides the necessary basis for the conclusion of the paris agreement by the eu and its member states. in addition, the implementation of the paris agreement will be an essential contribution to global efforts to combat climate change. for these reasons, i believe it is important that the formal entry into force of the paris agreement is a key priority for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this report on the paris agreement on climate change. the paris agreement is a copy of the failed kyoto agreement; both agreements are highly unfavourable to the industrialized countries and in reality are totally ineffective in combating climate change. the agreement masks behind important environmental issues the enormous amounts of finance given to developing countries, such as the arab oil-producing countries, and it severely penalizes our companies, which will be subject to binding regulations and related charges, in order to favour the emerging companies of other countries, thus provoking unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu's ratification of the paris agreement on climate change as a bold and collective move to definitively accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient, zero-emission global economy. in evidence, the agreements include long-term objectives to keep global warming below 2°c, including the submission of biennial gas inventories and the establishment of a global budget from 2023 to assess progress objectively against the commitments. packages of provisions on climate finance and on reducing the vulnerability of our systems are also planned. the parties are legally bound to adopt the domestic measures deemed most appropriate to achieve the agreed in conjunction with the european target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. the entry into force of the treaty is crucial, especially in view of cop22 in marrakesh from 7 to 18 november.
in writing. ‒ the european union concluded the paris agreement adopted at the 21st session of the conference of the parties (cop21) to the united nations framework convention on climate change held in paris in december 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that this agreement represents a historic achievement in the fight against climate change and, in particular, in multilateral and collective action at global level towards a climate-neutral economy. the eu had already set itself an ambitious target: reduce greenhouse gas emissions at national level by at least 40% by 2030. this objective is now reinforced in the paris agenda, which recognises the need to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century. the paris agreement not only sets important targets, such as limiting global warming to 1.5°c, but also contributes to ensuring transparency and accountability in emissions management through a strengthened mechanism that includes several binding measures. for example, the obligation for the parties to submit greenhouse gas inventories every two years and a system of technical expert review.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the paris agreement is a valuable step forward in safeguarding the planet, in drawing the eu's attention to its short and long-term climate decisions and in achieving the zero-emissions target for the next 50 years adopted by the paris agreement. this will also encourage investors, businesses and civil society to take measures to limit the rise in temperatures. for these reasons i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the european union's ratification of the paris agreement marks an important milestone in the global fight against climate change and allows the agreement to enter into force by the end of 2016. the paris agreement aims to keep global temperature rise well below 2°c and to continue efforts to keep it at 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels. although this is a crucial step, there are still many concerns about the real effectiveness of the agreement and the commitments of the parties. there is still a lack of serious commitment to tackling the climate impact of sectors such as agriculture and animal husbandry, and market instruments such as the ets remain a pillar of climate policies even at global level, despite the proven ineffectiveness of such a mechanism and the risk of only encouraging financial speculation. finally, there is a danger that technologies such as ccs could be promoted, diverting us from the real objective which should be the decarbonisation of our production systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft resolution because i share the aims of the agreement signed at the paris climate conference, in the context of combating dangerous climate change. there are two objectives which i think the resolution addresses appropriately: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because in my view it changes little compared to the previous agreement, which has proved to be a failure, and contains many points which are questionable also from an economic point of view.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change, because i consider the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the paris agreement by the eu and its member states to be of paramount importance. the paris agreement will enter into force as soon as at least 55 parties to the convention (representing an estimated total of at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions) have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with the un. there is now a growing national push for the paris agreement to enter into force in 2016. hence the importance of the eu as a whole ratifying the agreement, taking into account the union's leadership in the fight against climate change, its role in the kyoto protocol and its ongoing efforts for a universal treaty to follow. for this reason, i shared the strong signal of support for ratification and therefore the call to the council and to individual member states to take the necessary measures to complete the ratification process by the end of 2016.
in writing. the conclusion of the paris agreement was a historic day for europe and the world. an ambitious pathway was outlined in paris to limit global warming to well below 2°c by the end of the century and to make efforts to keep it within 1.5°c. this is an important decision because, as science shows us, global warming is having a negative impact on all regions of the world. glaciers are melting and sea levels are rising. in some areas, extreme weather events and precipitation occur more frequently, while others are affected by severe droughts and abnormal temperature increases. the agreement provides for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through national commitment plans to be monitored and reviewed every five years in the light of progress. it also provides for financing obligations to help poorer countries develop cleaner energy sources. europe has already done its part to meet the paris targets by putting concrete policy proposals on the table, while others are still being developed to meet the eu targets.
in writing. ‒ cooperation among eu member states is important in order to address climate change at an international level. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on eu conclusion of the paris agreement. the agreement is a basis for effectively combating climate change through the employment of sustainable methods and practices. limiting global warming is one of the main goals, and european union member states are showing their interest and involvement in the matter by having set an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% domestically by 2030.
in writing. ‒ whereas the devastating effects of climate change, a scientifically proven historical reality, would become irreversible once the threshold of two degrees celsius of temperature rise is exceeded; whereas the heads of government of 195 countries have committed themselves to limiting this increase to 1.5 degrees; demonstrated the unfoundedness of the theory that environmental measures are a drag on growth and, on the contrary, convinced that climate change mitigation and adaptation policies represent a long-term investment; whereas the fall in greenhouse gas emissions in europe over the last 30 years has been matched by an increase in gross domestic product; the european union is committed to the development of a sustainable and inclusive society, based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development. considering our responsibility to future generations; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the paris agreement is a political and diplomatic victory for the multilateral system itself, and a european victory, after 20 years of exhausting negotiations. the credibility of the united nations was threatened by the failures that preceded and followed the dismal outcome of the copenhagen conference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because i believe that ratification of the paris agreement is a prompt and effective response to the problem of climate change. the european union must ratify a plan for a better life, a plan that is capable of protecting and preserving our planet in such a way as to guarantee a future for future generations. the climate agreement is a major challenge and, in the light of global problems, a global response is needed, from which the european union cannot be exempted. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement aims to keep global temperature rise well below 2°c and to continue efforts to keep it at 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels. the agreement will enter into force on the 31st day following the date on which at least 55 parties to the unfccc representing at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification. today, the joint ratification of the 28 member states of the union is a historic and fundamental step towards the entry into force of the agreement. the agreement sends a clear signal to investors, business, civil society and the political class that the global clean energy transition is vital for future generations and that resources must therefore move further away from fossil fuels. i remain critical of attempts to leverage carbon-neutralizing technologies such as carbon capture and sequestration, not only because they are highly costly, but also, and most importantly, because they take us away from the real goal which should be the decarbonization of our production systems. anyway, today is a historic moment. i voted in favour of the eu ratification process and i hope that the member states will follow suit as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's approval marks the beginning of an important new chapter in the global fight against climate change. it will allow the eu to ratify the paris agreement and its subsequent entry into force before the end of the year. it is a landmark milestone that sets the long-term target to combat global warming and to limit the temperature increase to below 2°c above pre-industrial levels. i voted in favour of the agreement, hoping that the commitment made jointly by all parties will be translated into concrete and feasible strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. finally, i believe it is essential that all the world's economies take equivalent measures to achieve this important environmental and health objective, while ensuring fair conditions of competition for our global competing industries.
in writing. for us in the 5-star movement, the ratification by the european union of the paris agreement cop21 is a necessary, crucial and necessary act. unfortunately, it's not enough on its own. we'll have to go further. it is a first step which must force us to keep up our efforts, a first step which must encourage us to take new and concrete action. we must have the courage to abandon a model based on an absurd unlimited growth with limited resources. cop21 is a starting point for tackling and trying to solve the problems of climate change, it cannot be considered an end point. we have serious doubts about the management of co2 emissions that will be achieved through the use of financial instruments and we are disappointed that the polluting emissions from aircraft and ships have been excluded from the negotiations. we still do not understand why the agriculture chapter was excluded from the negotiations, considering that the business of the multinational food companies is causing disasters. however, i think it's important that the great people of the world have come to a compromise by actually admitting that there is a climate emergency. and it is to this first step that i have given my vote in favour so that i can move on quickly to work on the second.
in writing. ‒ the commission is requesting the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 1 651 834 following an earthquake which struck the ionian islands in greece. the earthquake reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale causing significant damage to homes and rendering 20 of them uninhabitable. i think it is very important to provide the necessary help in situations like this, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, the ionian islands of greece were struck by a violent earthquake with a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. the extensive damage caused by the earthquake, particularly in the islands of leucade, ithaca and kefalonia, damaged more than 120 houses, destroyed beaches and bathing establishments, compromised infrastructure networks and cultural sites. the hellenic republic therefore asked the eu to activate the european union solidarity fund, an instrument which aims to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations, supporting the population of regions affected by natural disasters. i voted in favour of the kyrtsos report because i believe that european intervention in such situations is essential. the aid and resources provided, amounting to eur 1,65 billion, will enable infrastructure to be restored, the costs of emergency measures to be reimbursed and some of the costs of clean-up operations to be covered.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, greece was struck by an earthquake which affected the ionian islands, in particular leucadia, the northern areas of ithaca and the island of kefalonia. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide eur 1 651 834 for reconstruction and support for the affected populations. i believe that the solidarity fund continues to be an important instrument of support which europe provides to the member states affected by major natural disasters, although i hope that its activation will be made more and more rapid, because this will greatly increase its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this resolution concerning the allocation of more than eur 1.5 million to greece following the earthquake of november 2015, because i strongly believe that european solidarity is the right political answer, especially during hard times.
in writing. ‒ in the autumn-winter period of 2015, the ionian islands of greece were affected by an earthquake and several local floods. the damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, homes, agricultural holdings and environmental assets in the affected areas has been severe, both in economic and human terms, causing casualties and material consequences that are difficult to resolve in the short term in a country already badly affected by the crisis. events which can be attributed to a single adverse natural phenomenon must be regarded as a single major natural catastrophe. the overall direct damage, estimated at several million eur, has to be added to the large indirect damage under the regional disaster criteria, since several nuts 2 regions are affected and the damage in the affected areas represents a significant part of greek gdp. the european parliament must therefore immediately mobilise the european union solidarity fund in favour of the affected areas by allocating them sufficient resources to deal with the damage suffered and to enable the damaged sites to be secured.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance in connection with an earthquake in greece on 17 november 2015. widespread damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites was recorded. on the island of leucade, some of the most important tourist beaches have been destroyed. the total direct damage caused by the disaster in greece is estimated at eur 66 073 345. in italy, the eu solidarity fund was used for the 2002 molise earthquake, the 2009 abruzzo earthquake and the 2012 emilia romagna earthquake. the european union expressed its readiness to activate the solidarity fund also in support of reconstruction in the areas affected by the earthquake of 24 august 2016 in lazio and marche. the fund's resources can be used to cover non-insurable damage, which is therefore attributable to first aid, infrastructure and cultural property. the fund will also make it possible to restore roads, water pipes, electricity, gas and telephone lines or transport networks.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in relation to a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015. the greek authorities estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at approximately eur 66 million. the total amount of the assistance proposed by the eusf is eur 1 651 834. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, a magnitude 6.1 earthquake struck some islands in western greece, damaging infrastructure networks, public and private buildings (including a hospital) and cultural sites. the damage estimated by the local authorities is over eur 66 million. i am convinced that the scale of the natural disaster which has struck one of the least developed regions of the country requires us to mobilise the european solidarity fund (esf) to provide the financial assistance requested by the greek government. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of the decision to allocate some eur 1.7 million to help cover the damage. i hope that the decision will be implemented quickly, so as to show the solidarity and closeness of the european institutions to the people of the areas affected by the earthquake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as the commission proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance in relation to a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (an earthquake that affected the ionian islands, in particular the island of leucadia, the northern areas of ithaca and the island of kefalonia). the earthquake reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale and caused two deaths and eight injuries and damaged 120 housing units, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. widespread damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites was recorded. on the island of leucade, some of the most important tourist beaches have been destroyed. on 18 march 2016, at the request of greece, the commission granted an advance of eur 164 798, corresponding to 10% of the financial contribution from the fund, in line with article 4a (2) of the eusf regulation. the proposed mobilisation would not require any amendment of the 2016 budget or a draft amending budget. this is the first mobilisation decision of 2016 and the total amount of the proposed aid respects the ceiling for the eu solidarity fund as set out in the regulation establishing the mff.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the tragic earthquake that struck italy on 24 august, i can only vote in favour of the support to be provided to the greeks. the earthquake that shook the ionian islands on november 17, 2015 had a magnitude of 6.5 and was also felt in puglia and calabria. if the casualties were limited, the damage was unfortunately not. the application for financial assistance which greece has promptly submitted within the 12 weeks following the first damage was made will result in the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 1 651 834. i hope that the italian government will have the capacity to provide similarly as soon as possible, since the damage in our central italy is estimated at a total of around 4 billion. we are all well aware that certain tragedies cause losses far greater than the monetary damage. i would therefore like to remember the 297 dead whose death has caused the entire nation to mourn, as was also recently observed during the september plenary session in strasbourg by the minute of silence observed by the entire european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report that the european union should support greece in the tragic events of the 17 november 2015 earthquake in the ionian islands, through the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, to help the most affected areas, such as leucade island, the areas north of ithaca and the island of kefalonia, in rebuilding homes and in securing the citizens themselves. the european commission will apply a rate of 2.5% of the total direct damage amount for all damage up to the threshold, granting greece a financial contribution of eur 1 651 834.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is the main instrument for demonstrating the union's solidarity action, providing significant financial support to member states or regions affected by major disasters. in the light of these considerations, i welcomed the aid to greece following the earthquake in the ionian islands.
in writing. ‒ i am particularly in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund as i come from a region in italy with strong seismic activity and therefore i believe that it is an important initiative to help the population of the greek islands affected by the earthquake of november 2015. i therefore hope that the commission will give its approval quickly for the allocation of the necessary financial aid. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the commission's proposal to mobilise the european solidarity fund (esf) to provide financial assistance to greece following the disaster on 17 november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of aid for the greek people affected by the earthquake in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, as i believe that offering support to the greek authorities and the people affected by the earthquake of 17 november 2015 is a great proof and demonstration of solidarity. the earthquake that struck the islands of kefalonia and leucadia and the northern area of ithaca in 2015 caused huge economic damage and unfortunately also tragic fatalities in an area with an economic and social fabric already badly tested by the economic crisis. the eu's decision to provide financial assistance to the affected areas is therefore a step in the right direction. the decision also does not require a revision of the financial forecasts for expenditure and allows the eu to continue to have the necessary resources to support the affected territories in the event of new natural disasters. this is an important sign of how the peoples of europe are and can be in solidarity with each other and i hope that these support instruments will be further strengthened in the future, given the many natural disasters which unfortunately continue to occur in italy too.
in writing. in november 2015, greece was struck by a terrible earthquake that caused considerable damage on some islands. as we know, this has caused and will continue to cause a great economic predicament for greece and for the region in particular. we have therefore approved the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to support greece with a total of eur 1 651 834, of which 10% has already been paid to the greek authorities. it is in times of crisis like these that we must show our solidarity and help those who are affected by serious tragedies. for these reasons i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece.
in writing. ‒ the proposal of parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund stresses that such fund will enable the european union to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to show solidarity with the people affected by natural disasters. hence, my vote in favour. the report numbered the casualties, the wounded, and the damages left by the earthquake in greece. however, with the following mobilisation of funds, greece can look forward to rebuilding infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites that were reported completely damaged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure proposing to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in relation to a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (an earthquake that affected the ionian islands, in particular leucade island, the northern areas of ithaca and the island of kefalonia). the earthquake reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale and caused two deaths and eight injuries and damaged 120 housing units, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. widespread damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites was recorded. on the island of leucade, some of the most important tourist beaches have been destroyed. the region concerned is in the category of 'less developed regions' under the european structural and investment funds (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration, as i fully agree with my colleague that the european union solidarity fund should be used to provide assistance to the greek islands affected by the 2015 earthquake. the creation of this fund is aimed specifically at sensitive and emergency situations such as the one under consideration. the european union aims to provide assistance to member states in situations of particular difficulty. i therefore believe that there must be a united and unambiguous response from the union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in relation to a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015. this earthquake affected the ionian islands, particularly leucade island, the northern parts of ithaca and the island of kefalonia. on 18 march 2016, at the request of greece, the commission granted an advance of eur 164 798, corresponding to 10% of the financial contribution from the fund. earthquakes are natural phenomena which have caused death and destruction too many times, including in italy. i am convinced that more needs to be done in terms of prevention and the safeguarding of the most vulnerable homes and settlements and that in any case solidarity with the people affected by earthquakes must be one of the priorities of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of financial support for greece.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, greece was struck by a terrible earthquake, which particularly affected the ionian islands. at the request of the same country, the european commission granted an advance of 10% of its solidarity fund contribution. the payment of the remaining money requires the assent of the european parliament, which we have granted today.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in connection with a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015, an earthquake that affected the ionian islands, in particular leucade island, the northern areas of ithaca and the island of kefalonia. the earthquake reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale and caused two deaths and eight injuries, damaging 120 housing units, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. this is coupled with widespread damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. the greek authorities estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at approximately eur 66 million; the total amount of aid proposed by the eusf and approved in plenary today is eur 1 651 834.
in writing. ‒ the application submitted by finland concerns 2161 redundant workers at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream manufacturers. in finland, employment in the technology sector has declined sharply in recent years, following a european trend, in contrast to the us and china. i think it is important that finland should receive these funds, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the major changes in the structure of world trade, particularly in the ict sector, in recent years have led to a loss of european positions, which nokia had led in the early 2000s, to china and the united states, which have benefited from the introduction of operating systems such as android and ios. the decline of nokia and consequently of finnish electronics as a whole has led microsoft to announce plans to restructure the company's telephony activities, with the loss of 2 300 jobs in finland. my vote in favour of the sarvamaa report is based on my agreement with the need to mobilise the egf to provide assistance to the 1 441 workers made redundant by microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland. this measure will provide a coordinated package of instruments, including training and mobility allowances, as well as start-up grants and training, retraining and vocational training programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of eur 5 364 000 from the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for the benefit of 1 441 redundant workers at microsoft mobile in finland. the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument to support european citizens in this time of crisis. however, the eu should put employment policies in europe at the top of its priority list, rather than running to the shelter of workers who have lost their jobs because of its own foolish choices.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), because the european union has the duty to alleviate the situation of people facing negative effects caused by globalisation. the egf has the aim of providing support to workers who are suffering negative consequences of the phenomenon. finland asked for an intervention after the redundancies made by microsoft mobile and i supported the eu’s financial aid to finland.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or as a result of a new economic and financial crisis of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market, updating their training and providing them with financial support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance to workers in undertakings which have suffered serious loss of employment as a result of the change in the international it market and the new corporate strategies of microsoft and its partner companies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the application was made by finland in respect of 1 441 redundancies at microsoft, which are mainly attributable to the decline in the market share of its mobile phones. i note that the reductions in the finnish electronics sector are related to the decline of nokia, which sold its mobile phone operations to microsoft. i regret, and i will repeat this in every statement of my vote, that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions. between 2007 and 2015, italy submitted only 15 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund, 3 of which in 2007, only one in 2008, zero between 2009 and 2010, 7 in 2011, 2 in 2012, zero in 2013, one in 2014 and one in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. finland has submitted an application for an egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland operating in division 62 of nace revision 2. as economic growth should be used to alleviate the situation of people affected by the negative effects of globalisation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland, operating in division 62 of nace revision 2. the commission has concluded, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. the finnish authorities argue that the shortfalls in microsoft are mainly due to the decrease in its mobile phone market share due to the increase in chinese and us market share. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission submitted to the budgetary authority a request for a transfer of a total amount of eur 5 364 000 from the egf reserve. in the event of disagreement, a trilogue procedure will be initiated as provided for in article 15 (4) of the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to mobilise eur 5 364 000 for the 1 441 redundant workers at microsoft mobile in finland. the reductions in staff in the information and communication technology sector are due to the significant changes in world trade caused by globalisation. it is worth noting that in the same technology sector, the eu's share of employment is falling while that of china and the us continues to rise.
in writing. ‒ i have to vote in favour of this measure because the use of the egf is clearly necessary. it is urgent to ensure that the 2 035 employees laid off by the us it giant receive the best possible care, as we hope will be the case with the eur 1 365 000 we voted for. the report proposed by my colleague clearly shows that the crisis at microsoft is caused by a sharp drop in sales of its products and it is commendable that finland has already taken measures to prepare former microsoft employees for new jobs. it is, however, emerging forcefully once again, not only how global competition in the it sector can generate turbulence in national labour markets, but also the decline in competitiveness that the union is facing even in countries that have always been known to be at the forefront. this framework can only serve as a stimulus for my work in fighting for the development of effective regulatory strategies to achieve, in the not too distant future, a peak in european productivity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the changed economic and mobile telephony market conditions have led nokia to lose around 45% of its market share and to make staff cuts at its helsinki-uusimaa, etela-suomi and lansi-suomi sites, leaving around 2 000 workers unemployed. through the use of the egf, in conjunction with the activities of the finnish public employment service, six types of measures will be offered, ranging from mentoring to vocational training, which will allow former employees to have ongoing support and reintegration into the labour market. the financial contribution from the egf will cover 60% of the total costs and amount to approximately eur 5 million.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by microsoft. finland argues that the distribution of ict employment between the eu and other economies has shifted in recent years to the detriment of the eu's share. these effects have been particularly felt in finland, where the ict sector plays a key role in the economy. in particular, the finnish authorities argue that the losses at microsoft are mainly due to the decline in the market share of its mobile phones, due to the introduction of the android system. i voted in favour because i believe that this instrument is the fastest way of offering practical help to workers, showing europe and its face of solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not consider the measure in question to be a useful tool for developing policies to promote growth and job creation, nor to provide a comprehensive answer to the question of redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of aid for the 1 441 unemployed workers in finland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 5 364 000 submitted by finland in relation to the 2621 redundancies of the company microsoft mobile oi because i believe it is necessary to support finnish workers, already heavily affected by the closure of nokia plants, in the long process of vocational re-employment. we are talking about a sector, the information technology sector, in which the eu is suffering heavily from the large international competitors and in which mainly young engineers under 50 years of age, highly qualified, are working who would not have any difficulty in normal employment conditions. i therefore think that the financing of personalised services such as tutoring services, vocational training services, employment services, recruitment incentives, start-up grants and allowances for travel, accommodation and relocation expenses is very important and that the choice of the finnish authorities to combine these interventions with other measures already provided for in the spending of the structural funds is a step in the right direction. i think it is important, however, that the commission monitors the use of these incentives and in general the various sources of funding for employment programmes, in order to avoid speculative behaviour by companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr sarvamaa's report. the reason for my agreement is that this measure is: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the measure involves the mobilisation of eur 1 365 million for finland. it concerns 1 441 of the 2 161 workers laid off by microsoft. this is a concrete measure to help us deal with the emergency, which is now taking on the connotations of ordinary administration, and to support workers who need help and retraining.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed a favourable vote towards the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation fund, for this has been created with the aim of providing additional assistance to workers suffering from the impacts of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in general, i consider that the report includes a set of advantages and benefits for the economy and citizens involved.
in writing. ‒ to make the most of the great opportunities offered by globalisation, we must first of all be able to mitigate its effects. this is why we welcome the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the fund has proved to be an important instrument of solidarity for workers who have suffered mass redundancies as a result of structural changes in world trade, through assistance, retraining and reintegration, and the promotion of entrepreneurship. the report also stresses the need to pay attention to the impact of trade policies and agreements on the european labour market, stresses the importance of social dialogue and urges the commission to ensure that job losses are only a last resort. the response to globalisation cannot and must not be one of suspicion and closure, but must be seen as a great opportunity which requires active adaptation to reap its benefits, keeping the achievements of the european social model and the protection of workers as firm reference points.
in writing. ‒ on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland, operating in division 62 of nace revision 2. the finnish authorities argue that the shortfalls in microsoft are mainly due to the decrease in its mobile phone market share due to the increase in chinese and us market share. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i thought it my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. the effects of globalisation can, in certain circumstances, be negative and therefore solidarity action by the institutions is necessary. the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the union therefore undertakes to alleviate any such effects by immediate and effective financial support. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ for the seventh time in 2016, we are voting on a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. this is the case of finland, which has asked for eur 1 365 000 from europe to help 2 61 workers who have been made redundant. i voted in favour of the report because it also shows the importance and the greatness of the real european union.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation request we approved today was submitted by finland and concerns 2 161 redundant workers from microsoft (microsoft mobile oy) and eight suppliers and downstream manufacturers. the main company operates in the sector defined as 'programming, computer consultancy and related activities'. the redundant placements made by microsoft are mainly concentrated in the regions of helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and länsi-suomi. the present application follows a series of previous applications submitted by finland, all of which were caused by the decline of nokia in its home country. as an example, in 2014 the number of employees in finnish technology companies decreased by 2% compared to the previous year and in 2014 the sector employed 285 000 people in finland compared to 326 000 in 2008. in the same period, the share of ict staff from developed countries simultaneously increased for china and the united states, while it decreased for europe. the total financial contribution requested from the egf amounts to eur 5 364 000, representing 60% of the total costs. i am generally in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ the application submitted by sweden concerns vacancies at ericsson. the origin of these redundancies is the closure of production lines in various ericsson plants and also the closure of an entire plant in katrineholm. the reasons for the closure of ericsson's plants and production lines are stagnant growth and fierce competition with asian products. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the major changes in the structure of world trade, and in particular in the global ict sector, in recent years have seen europe lose ground to china and the united states. in this context, ericsson, while still recruiting in europe, is expanding its activities in asia, deciding to focus on the growth of the software sector at the expense of the hardware manufacturing and development sector. my vote in favour of the gonzález pons report is based on my agreement with the need to mobilise the fig to provide assistance to the 918 workers laid off by ericsson in sweden, particularly in the stockholm, östra mellansverige, sydsverige and västsverige areas. this measure will provide a coordinated package of instruments comprising training and mobility allowances as well as start-up grants and training, retraining and vocational training programmes.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report authorising the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for an amount of eur 3 957 918 in favour of 1 556 redundant ericsson sweden workers. the egf remains a practical and indispensable instrument to support workers and businesses affected by the crisis and the malfunctioning of the internal market, although i will continue to fight for it to become less and less bureaucratic and for its activation to be more streamlined and flexible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund following the application by sweden after several redundancies in the economic sector. indeed, i am confident that this instrument will provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes. the european union has the duty to help its people when globalisation penalises them.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or as a result of a new economic and financial crisis of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market, updating their training and providing them with financial support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance to workers in undertakings which have suffered serious redundancies as a result of the change in the international it market and the new business strategies of ericsson and its partner undertakings.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the application in question was submitted by sweden in relation to 918 redundancies at ericsson, which unfortunately does not recruit workers with skills in hardware production and development. in fact, today the growth of society is based mainly on software development. although some of the software is developed in europe, the growth of the sector is mainly in asia, where ericsson is expanding its activities. i regret, and i will repeat this in every statement of my vote, that italian companies are not able to benefit more from this fund because of the lack of support from local and national institutions. between 2007 and 2015, italy submitted only 15 applications to the european globalisation adjustment fund, 3 of which in 2007, only one in 2008, zero between 2009 and 2010, 7 in 2011, 2 in 2012, zero in 2013, one in 2014 and one in 2015.
in writing. ‒ faced with both stagnating growth and increased competition from asian manufacturers, ericsson has gradually reduced its production of telecommunications hardware. on 31 march 2016, sweden submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundant posts in the company telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson. the financial contribution requested under the egf for this proposal is just under eur 4 million. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. on 5 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, which is active in nace revision 2 division 26 (manufacture of computers and electronics and optical products), mainly in the nuts 4 level 2 regions of stockholm, östra mellansverige, sydsverige and västsverige. the commission has concluded, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf.
in writing. ‒ in this case i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of eur 3 957 918 for the 1 556 redundant workers at ericsson sweden. the redundancies were the result of the closure of the plant in the town of katrineholm and of several branches in the country.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the use of tools to provide additional support to workers who are suffering the consequences of tumultuous structural changes in the world of trade or the global crisis and to assist them in their new and beneficial job affirmation. therefore, the contribution of eur 3 957 918, i.e. 60% of the total cost of the proposed measures, to facilitate the reintegration of 918 former ericsson employees into the world of work is a suitable response, inter alia, for the implementation of training programmes to enrich specific skills and to enable them to reach new quality positions despite the different basic preparations. ericsson, a communications technology and services provider, is laying off employees in the hardware sector in europe, but is also hiring in the software development sector. at the same time, the swedish multinational is moving its production to asia, a key destination for global outsourcing thanks to its low-cost manufacturing and its growing it expertise. stagnant growth and increasingly fierce competition with asian markets are weakening the union deeply. i hope, therefore, that we can get rid of these toxins as soon as possible, which are weakening an increasingly polluted social environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to cover 60% of the necessary costs will help ericsson's redundant employees to be reintegrated into the labour market. a joint project between the swedish public service and the european fund will accompany workers in a personalised training programme to acquire new skills required by the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at ericsson. sweden argues that the overruns occurred in the operational sphere of ericsson's telecommunications hardware production. in recent years, ericsson has outsourced some of its manufacturing and development activities in asia. furthermore, according to the swedish trade union union, the company does not reintegrate workers with skills in hardware production and development, as the company's growth is mainly based on software development. i voted in favour because i believe that this instrument is the fastest way of providing practical help to workers and of showing the true face of europe in solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not consider the measure in question to be a useful tool for developing policies to promote growth and job creation, nor to provide a comprehensive answer to the question of redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of aid to 1 556 swedish workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to mobilise a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 3 957 918 submitted by sweden in relation to the redundancies of ericsson, which will benefit some 900 workers. the closures decided by ericsson in different regions of the country represent a very serious event for sweden as they affect different professional profiles, whether workers or clerks and engineers, young and/or elderly, difficult to re-locate in traditional industry. workers are thus once again paying the price of the crisis in the sector and the various relocations of production to china and other countries with low labour costs. the egf financing of personalised career and vocational guidance services, safe and assisted work and rehabilitation measures, education and training services and job search allowances is important and necessary but not sufficient. the eu must go further and tackle the problems of the european information technology industry in a holistic way, with a clear and effective strategy for the revival of a sector that is crucial for the future of the continent.
in writing. as we all know, the major structural changes in world trade and the economic crisis are having an impact on workers and the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) plays a key role in this context. sweden has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of 918 redundant workers at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson. in view of the fact that the application for assistance meets the eligibility criteria laid down by the egf regulation, i have decided to vote in favour of the report, which offers practical help to these workers in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ regarding the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour as it emphasises that citizens will have access to a personalised package of training programmes and coaching that will allow them to find new high-quality jobs. on the other hand, the report also focuses on recognising that skills and competences gained throughout a worker’s professional career are of great importance to improve the employability of all workers. with that being said, i believe that many workers will benefit from the list of favourable aspects listed throughout the report.
in writing. ‒ on 5 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, operating in division 26 of nace revision 2 (manufacture of computers and electronic and optical products). the application concerned 918 redundant workers. i voted in favour of the measure to allow the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up specifically to provide additional support for workers who suffer from the consequences of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ in view of the possible effects of globalisation in sweden, i believe that a joint response by the union is needed by mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund. the institutions have specifically set up the use of these tools to support and repair workers from what we can consider to be the negative consequences of globalisation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in order to provide additional support to swedish workers who are suffering from the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis, it is necessary for parliament to approve this proposal. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. it is a very important instrument which can provide practical help to those in difficulty. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ with this report, for which i voted in favour, the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by sweden. the case in question concerns the redundancy of 918 workers for which sweden has requested eur 3 957 918 and, thanks to the approval of the european parliament, these funds will be allocated as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ in march, sweden submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundant placements at ericsson. the events that led to just under a thousand redundancies are the partial or total closure of production lines for wireless telecommunications hardware at various ericsson sites in sweden, as well as the closure of an entire plant in katrineholm. faced with both stagnant growth and increased competition from asian producers, ericsson has gradually reduced its production of telecommunications hardware in a process that began almost 20 years ago. in 2012, the company also sold its entire mobile phone development and production line to competitor sony, which decided to concentrate its production lines mainly in asia. the financial contribution requested under the egf for this proposal is just under eur 4 million. i am generally in favour of mobilising this fund, although i am aware that it is probably not the instrument that can best help redundant workers, but in the absence of viable alternatives i still believe it should be supported. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis in relation to the prosecution of an alleged offence. since the criminal proceedings do not concern opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of the functions of a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of bringing this lengthy judicial procedure to an end.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i took part in the vote on the marinho and pinto report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis. the same, long before becoming an mep, had been involved in student demonstrations for which a trial had been opened which ended with the acquittal of all the accused. he himself wants his immunity lifted so that the trial against him, which had been blocked, can be brought to a conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in view of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, sent on 1 april 2016 by the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of the hellenic republic in relation to the action brought by the prosecutor of rethymno, for the offence of breach of trust in the exercise of his functions, committed in competition with others in rethymno, crete, in the period 2000-2002. the proposed action relates to a discussion held on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private collective insurance policy, in addition to the compulsory insurance policy, for all employees of the university of crete, and to alleged illegal payments made in succession during the period 2000-2002. the proposed action is clearly unrelated to the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, as it relates to his previous position as president of the academic senate of the university of crete.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of mr grammatikakis, which the member himself has requested, so that the judicial proceedings in which he has been involved for a long time can be brought to an end.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis, considering that the member has waived his right to be heard, in accordance with rule 9 (5) of the rules of procedure, and in the light of the previous judgments of the court of justice of the european union, i am following the line of my group. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the directive on temporary access to legal aid is the last of six directives implementing the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings adopted by the council in november 2009. the proposal for a directive lays down minimum rules on the right to legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings in which they are deprived of liberty, and in certain other situations. it shall also ensure that legal assistance is made available in the context of a procedure for the execution of a european arrest warrant, at the time of the arrest of the requested person in the executing state. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the de jong report on the protection of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and of persons wanted in proceedings for the execution of a european arrest warrant. this is a particularly important issue and one of the cornerstones of the rule of law. the right to a lawyer must be guaranteed to those who lack the necessary financial means, through legal aid at the expense of the state. the text adopted is a concrete step forward in overcoming the differences in interpretation of the right to a fair trial by ensuring a minimum level of legal aid at the expense of the state in all member states. despite some provisions which may be too timid to overcome the differences in the quality of legal aid, the text proposes a fair line for judicial cooperation in criminal matters which is really fair and effective.
in writing. ‒ mr de jong's report is well structured and free of criticism. i think that the text is acceptable and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a directive aimed at ensuring the right of access to a lawyer for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for requested persons who are the subject of european arrest warrant proceedings. i voted in favour of this proposal, because i think it is needed to strengthen the trust of member states in each other’s criminal justice systems.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i voted in favour of the directive in question, which harmonises at eu level the institution of free legal aid for suspects and accused persons deprived of their liberty or involved in proceedings for the execution of a european arrest warrant. the scope of the directive covers admission to legal aid, both provisional and definitive, and provides legal certainty to the suspect, accused or requested person as regards the eligibility criteria. the differences in income and cost levels between member states preclude the possibility of providing detailed rules on the level of fees. however, the directive includes minimum guarantees concerning the quality of legal aid provided. specific provisions are also provided to take account, as far as possible, of the preferences of the suspects, accused and requested persons as regards the choice of the ombudsman. the same applies to the need for continuity in legal representation and the replacement of the lawyer of the defence if the accused has lost all confidence in his lawyer and can justify this with verifiable reasons.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive on provisional access to legal aid is the last of a package of six directives aimed at implementing the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. since it has direct implications for the state budget, the question of free legal aid is not a simple one. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to this effect. however, it is worth noting the contribution of parliament, which has succeeded in extending the scope beyond the provisional period, thus guaranteeing ordinary legal assistance. this is an important measure aimed at guaranteeing a minimum standard of procedural rights, which is also useful for the mutual recognition of criminal decisions. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as on 27 november 2013 the european commission adopted a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional admission to legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on admission to legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. the commission proposal is a positive step towards guaranteeing a minimum level of state sponsorship in all member states. however, it is limited to the right to provisional admission to legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings involving deprivation of liberty and to the right to provisional and definitive admission to legal aid for wanted persons in proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. the rapporteur is also aware of the differences between member states in the quality of legal aid provided. this depends, among other things, on the fees paid to lawyers for legal aid at the expense of the state. however, it is therefore all the more important to include at least some guarantees concerning the quality of legal aid offered in the directive.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report which seeks to regulate the representation at the expense of the state of suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and the admission to representation at the expense of the state in proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. the italian legal system currently provides for more extensive safeguards than in many other eu countries. this guarantee, which has been provided for in article 24 of the constitution, has been implemented over the years by our case law. i therefore support the inclusion of this measure in the european arrest warrant procedure.
in writing. ‒ a subject of such complexity requires support: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission had provided for provisional assistance for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons wanted on a european arrest warrant, but it was possible to extend it to be ordinary and definitive. the aim is to increase the effectiveness of the right of access to a legal adviser at the expense of the state for those who do not have sufficient means to cover legal costs. reasonably, means-testing and merits checks will also be provided in order to assess with objective tools the actual unavailability of resources by the accused and, at the same time, the urgency, complexity, seriousness of the case and the severity of the applicable penalties. i think it is essential to stress that the quality and independence of legal counsel must be guaranteed in every country, as well as the right of the accused to request the replacement of a lawyer if he does not prove to be professional. i hope that the votes will allow for fair and prompt proceedings. i also take this opportunity to remind you of the disastrous situation in our prisons and to call for solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it represents a positive step towards guaranteeing a minimum level of legal aid at the expense of the state for nationals of the member states, while limiting it to the provisional level for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings deprived of liberty and to the provisional and final level for wanted persons subject to proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. i consider the amendments to the final text to the original proposal to be important in order to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to legal aid and not just to provisional legal aid, thus including support for the accused at all stages of the proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to put an end to the divergences between member states on the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, as this situation is contrary to judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union established by article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). parliament voted in favour of a minimum level of public sponsorship in all member states. parliament believes that the approach can be improved by clarifying those elements which remained uncertain in the commission proposal, such as the level of quality and costs of legal aid, and the criteria for eligibility for legal aid at the expense of the state. i am convinced that establishing common minimum standards for the right to legal aid for suspects, accused persons and wanted persons will serve to strengthen cooperation and trust between the criminal justice systems of the member states and, with them, the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report: agree that the european level should also regulate the representation at the expense of the state of suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and the admission to representation at the expense of the state in proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant.
in writing. ‒ i express my support for the agreement at first reading on the text negotiated by my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which introduces common minimum standards for legal assistance to suspects and accused persons in criminal cases or subject to a european arrest warrant. with the adoption of this important legislative measure, europe is taking a further step towards strengthening cooperation and mutual recognition in the field of criminal justice. i think it is very important to emphasize this point: the guarantees provided for in the directive provide for adequate protection in all european countries and set standards for the quality of legal aid for accused persons, ensuring equal treatment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional admission to legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on admission to legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings because i am firmly convinced of the need to strengthen the rule of law and legal and procedural safeguards at a particular historical moment such as the one we are living in, characterised by terrorism and the increase in cross-border crime. for the poor, legal aid at the expense of the state is the only way to guarantee the right to a defence and a fair trial. i therefore welcome the s&d group's efforts to introduce uniform rules at european level to ensure that suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty receive free assistance without risk of reimbursement of costs incurred, and not only in the provisional stages of the proceedings as originally requested by the commission. i believe that this legislation, although limited to the situations listed therein, is an important first step towards bringing the quality of legal aid in the various member states closer together, taking into account the differences in professional fees and costs.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to guarantee a minimum level of legal aid in all member states for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings deprived of liberty and the right to provisional and even definitive admission to legal aid for wanted persons subject to proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. the implementation of this principle requires greater harmonisation of each other's criminal justice systems, including provisions to protect the rights of suspects and accused persons. it is also important to emphasise the possibility of replacing the ombudsman by a trusted one.
in writing. ‒ to comply with the union’s core values, i voted in favour of the report on provisional legal aid for suspects, which grants the suspects with the right to request aid, for example, access to a lawyer in case a european arrest warrant has been issued. the commission made the decision of proposing a step that ensures a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. the parliament looks forward to cooperate with the commission to make sure that certain measures be adopted as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure concerning the protection at the expense of the state of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and of persons wanted in proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. the commission proposal is a positive step towards guaranteeing a minimum level of state sponsorship in all member states. although there are differences between member states as regards the quality of legal aid provided, in particular as regards fees, the directive provides for safeguards to protect it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is essential to guarantee the effectiveness of the right to a lawyer, thus ensuring that member states provide the necessary assistance to persons deprived of their liberty from the initial stages of criminal proceedings or in the case of proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. the european union has always been at the forefront of protecting human rights, which, in order to be defined as such, must necessarily be guaranteed even in the presence of a procedure. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of minimum standards for legal counselling for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons subject to a european arrest warrant is a key step forward. by helping to strengthen mutual trust and, consequently, mutual recognition in criminal matters, the directive complements the current package on procedural rights, a key element in the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice. the good final text is also the result of the work of the s&d group, which succeeded in extending the scope of the directive by extending legal aid to all cases and not just, as the commission wanted, to provisional admission to legal aid at the expense of the state. in addition, it has been possible to assert the right of a person subject to a european arrest warrant to legal counsel in both the issuing and executing member states. at a time when there is a proliferation of legal instruments to combat terrorism and other forms of crime, a union based on the rule of law needs procedures and rights for all. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 27 november 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal for a directive on provisional admission to the state's legal representation of suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and on admission to the state's legal representation in european arrest warrant proceedings. judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union, based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions, is in my view one of the most important aspects of the european area of freedom and justice. this report addresses several issues relating to the scope of the directive. the commission proposal is a positive step towards guaranteeing a minimum level of state sponsorship in all member states. i therefore voted in favour of its approval.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we have approved the provision of legal aid at the expense of the state in all member states for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings deprived of personal liberty. more specifically, it is a provisional admission to legal aid because the states in the council have not wanted to grant more rights for purely economic reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the representation of suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and on the representation of persons in proceedings for the execution of the european arrest warrant. one of the main objectives of the report is to establish common minimum standards for legal aid for suspects in criminal proceedings and for persons subject to a european arrest warrant with the aim of strengthening mutual trust and thereby mutual recognition in criminal matters, which is essential for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to introduce catch-all and end-use clauses to prohibit the export of goods intended for torture and of medicines used in capital punishment. as i believe that a common approach is needed between all the member states, which would allow for necessary and proportionate controls on medicinal products, but which would not entail additional costs which could restrict trade in goods with legitimate end uses, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ at a time when the international context is witnessing a proliferation of human rights violations, the european union's action in this field must prove even more decisive. the schaake report, which i supported with my vote today, sets out some important provisions to overcome the difficulties that have been identified in the application of the 2005 'anti-torture' regulation, a regulation which prohibits the export of goods which have no practical use other than for capital punishment or torture. chains to immobilize people, instruments of torture and medicines for lethal injection must not be sold by european companies to third countries. the text adopted defines some of the key points of this strategy: the commission is also proposing to introduce a ban on the sale and purchase of online advertising services for prohibited goods which have no practical use other than for capital punishment or torture, a ban on their transit through eu territory, rapid action to add new products to the list and finally the establishment of an anti-torture coordination group, with parliament's experts, to monitor the application of the rules.
in writing. ‒ while i fully share the aims of this legislative proposal, i believe that there are some unclear passages in it which could open up criticism, so i preferred to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ the global abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of the european union's human rights policies. it is precisely through the revision of this directive that community action aimed at protecting human dignity, the right to life, and the prohibition of torture and other inhuman and degrading punishments could be brought to fruition. with this new procedure, the european union is not only putting a stop to the marketing of all those instruments which, in some states, could be used to carry out torture or capital punishment, but is also prohibiting the advertising and transport of these throughout the european territory. the flexibility and precision of the 2005 regulation are also to be noted: an updated version of the 'black list' has been drawn up, listing all objects whose sole function is to torture or cause death, in order to respond to the development of new technologies in the field. i therefore welcome this review as a concrete example of a trade policy which can promote community values.
in writing. ‒ a clearer regulation on trade in goods used for capital punishment and torture is needed. thus, i voted in favour of this resolution mostly with the idea that the union has abolished capital punishment for all crimes and has made an international commitment on that issue. then, stricter authorisations to the supply of brokering services and technical assistance in respect of goods that are used for the purpose of capital punishment have been approved with this vote.
in writing. ‒ the 'regulation against torture' is a unique instrument that serves to ensure the protection of human rights by controlling goods and activities that could be used to practice the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the 'anti-torture regulation' is part of the eu's policy to abolish the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. it is important to ensure the right combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods for the purpose of torture and to effectively control items with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. export control regimes need to be long-term and flexible to adapt quickly to technological change and developments in the world. the effective implementation by national authorities of controls, checks, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions is also of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because i believe that europe needs to reiterate its leading role in the international arena in the fight to abolish the death penalty, torture and inhuman and degrading practices that violate human rights. the 'regulation against torture' (regulation (ec) no 1236/2005) is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are or could be improperly used for the purpose of capital punishment or torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is therefore essential to ensure uniformity in eu export controls, including on military dual-use firearms and items classified as instruments of torture. the strengthening of controls on instruments of torture involves the introduction of a specific annex iiia. the purpose of that annex is to prevent controlled medicinal products from being used for capital punishment by lethal injection. the eu should also establish a general export authorisation for countries which have made strict international commitments, in particular ratification of protocol 13 to the european convention on human rights.
in writing. ‒ this regulation makes it possible to eliminate some of the shortcomings in the 2005 regulation by introducing clauses that will prohibit the export not only of goods intended for torture but also of medicines used in capital punishment or for other treatments. prohibiting the death penalty and torture are key objectives of european trade and foreign policy and it is essential that eu businesses do not contribute to these practices. the five star movement is firmly opposed to the death penalty and torture. i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ torture and the death penalty are still some of the most serious and heinous forms of human rights violations. the european union, which is founded on the principles of the rule of law and respect for human dignity, must therefore consolidate its role as a world leader in combating such cruel treatment, also through its foreign and trade policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial offence' to include offences against the person or property of the person concerned. in the light of rapid technological developments and the development of new products, the possibility of activating emergency clauses to update the list of goods prohibited from trade will make the regulation even more effective and immediate. the procedure will have a real impact only if there are no disparities in the performance of controls by the customs authorities of the member states. it is therefore important that a special coordination group be set up, which already exists for other categories of exports, and which will regularly examine the application of the regulation. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the review of the regulation which aims to further strengthen the eu's role as a leader and responsible global actor in the fight against the death penalty and for the elimination of torture. the measure is designed to strengthen the provisions on ancillary services related to the transfer of goods, as well as transit, technical assistance and trade promotion. in line with parliament's repeated position, it aims to introduce end-use clauses for member states to prohibit or suspend the transit of security-related items not listed in annexes ii and iii which are clearly usable in practice only for capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment, or for the transit of which there are reasonable grounds to believe that capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment would be facilitated or carried out. it also proposes the creation of a coordination group on equipment and the introduction of a periodic review mechanism and a more systematic information sharing and reporting regime in order to strengthen the monitoring of the regulation and its effective implementation.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report. the issue of trade in products that could be used for capital punishment and torture is a very sensitive one. while i share the aims of the legislative proposal, i believe that its adoption should not place an undue burden on businesses that legitimately trade in products that are not related to acts of torture or the death penalty. i also think it is useless to exploit issues of this importance.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this measure with the hope that in the future it will be possible to eliminate all forms of repression and the eradication of human dignity, as envisaged by the eu's founding values. in this connection, the policies adopted with regard to the transit of goods which can be used to commit cruel treatment are commendable: it must be monitored and redirected through a timely exchange of information between customs authorities, made even more efficient by the establishment of a coordination group against torture. in view of the times in which we live, it is also important to prohibit advertising and any form of promotion, including via the internet, of the sale and use of the goods in question, as the document states. i also voted in favour of amendment no 41 tabled by mr lange, which would have regulated exports of medicines or other goods which could be used for torture or killing, especially to countries which have not abolished the death penalty. i welcome, as provided for, the adoption of the urgency procedure for possible amendments to the various annexes to the regulation in order to ensure immediate responses to the destabilising climate of foreign fighters and isis affiliates pervading the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation in question as i welcome the updating of the lists of goods subject to controls as it is important to ensure the right combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods for the purpose of torture and to effectively control articles with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. i also think it is important to have the provision to extend restrictions to technical assistance and brokering services in relation to any prohibited goods if the broker or technical assistance provider has knowledge that the goods in question are or may be intended for the use of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ the 'regulation against torture' is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are or could be improperly used to carry out the death penalty or inflict torture or other treatment. its revision is an important example of the european union's work to define global standards for the eradication of torture and is a strong signal also to the eu's partners. i therefore welcomed the amendment because i believe that trade instruments can help to overcome, at least in part, the absence of multilateral export control regimes in the field of goods which can be used for torture.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the 2005 revision of the regulation allowed the necessary updating of products whose marketing is prohibited within the european union, as well as the inclusion of a ban on advertising and promotion of these products, including online, and on their transit through the eu. it also provides for an 'urgent procedure' to include new products that could be considered risky in a timely manner and a review clause to verify the effectiveness of the legislation and review it, if necessary, by 2020. the provisions introduced by the revision are intended to increase the effectiveness of a regulation whose wider objective is to reaffirm the direct commitment of the european union to the defence of the right to life and the dignity of the person: the european union is also a very positive example of how european trade policy can increasingly be a means of strengthening the protection of human rights within and beyond the union's borders.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the european parliament and as a european, i am against the death penalty and all forms of torture. i would like to see closer cooperation between the national authorities of the eu member states to improve controls and raise awareness. i therefore support the revision of the legislation to stop the export and promotion of goods which can be used for capital punishment or torture, such as medicines for lethal injection or instruments of torture. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i can only support any measure aimed at preventing and prohibiting the production, trade and use of goods for torture and at effectively controlling articles with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. the regulation will eliminate some of the shortcomings in the legislation and ensure greater uniformity in eu export controls. the fight to abolish the death penalty and to oppose all forms of torture and other inhuman treatment or cruel punishment is a battle of civilisation to be fought in accordance with an all-encompassing approach which does not exclude the prohibition of harmful commercial practices. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it prohibits the export and import of equipment or goods intended solely for the purpose of torture and the death penalty and introduces a further restrictive regime, based on specific authorisations, for exports of equipment/goods potentially used for such purposes. the same report also allows member states to adopt or maintain additional national measures restricting the exercise of certain ancillary services linked to such exports.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report because i agree with the need to restrict trade in certain goods used for capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment, but i would not like to risk imposing excessive bureaucratic costs on the manufacturing companies.
in writing. ‒ i find it essential to express my full support for the identified agreement on trade in goods that could be used for the death penalty, torture or other punishments. i believe that the european union should intensify its monitoring of the legal and illegal channels of trade in instruments which could be used against people and cause death or the destruction of life. the protection of the health and safety of citizens must be the highest priority in our political and human endeavours, and we must implement, with the utmost severity and tenacity, the most decisive measures for scrupulous checks on the transit and sale, including online, of goods that could be used against persons, and we must firmly pursue europe's concrete and solid commitment to combating capital punishment, where it is still recognised.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this measure, the eu is further demonstrating its role as a responsible global leader and actor in the fight against the death penalty and for the elimination of torture. the regulation we have amended has too many shadow areas and leaves some loopholes which have allowed, in the past, the trade, the intermediation and the advertising of these instruments of death. thanks to today's vote and the agreement reached with the council, it will not only be illegal to buy and sell these instruments online, but also to export, advertise and display them. none of these goods will be allowed to circulate in europe, and we have also foreseen the ban on intermediary services and technical assistance. the list of prohibited products is not closed. today's vote will enable the commission to add new products to the list of prohibited or controlled products quickly. it is essential, however, that member states do their part through a secure and encrypted communication and information exchange system.
in writing. the schaake report is a tool that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and assets used (or that could be improperly used) for the death penalty or torture, combining prohibitions with authorisation requirements for the trade in goods covered by the regulation in question. this action should include not only confidential and bilateral approaches, but also explicit statements and initiatives, to ensure concrete, preventive and meaningful responses to persons at risk of or suffering from torture. i have therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu is currently working on its policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide and preventing torture. to accomplish this goal, the rapporteur highlights the need for effective enforcement of controls, verifications, penalties, guidance and outreach carried out by national authorities to prevent the misuse of trading goods for crimes against humanity (i.e. capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment). therefore, i voted in favour in order to take action on the matter.
in writing. ‒ the 'regulation against torture' (regulation (ec) no 1236/2005) is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are or could be improperly used for the purpose of capital punishment or torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. in this connection, i thought i would vote in favour of the amendment to the regulation, which aims to further strengthen the european union's role as a responsible leader in the fight against the death penalty and for the elimination of torture by strengthening the provisions on ancillary services related to the transfer of goods, as well as on transit, technical assistance and trade promotion. it is important to ensure the right combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods for the purpose of torture and to effectively control items with potentially lethal and inhumane uses.
in writing. ‒ whereas there is a need for new european rules to prevent trade in goods and services which can be used for torture or the death penalty; that the prohibition of these goods and services is aimed at protecting public morals and respecting the principles of human dignity which underlie european values, as enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union; the european union has always been at the forefront of the fight against torture and the death penalty, and it is essential that the export and import of goods used for such purposes be regulated in a precise and careful manner. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for a regulation aims to amend the previous regulation of 2005 on goods which can be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. the commission proposes to include in the new regulation an annex to prevent the goods in question from being used for capital punishment by lethal injection, to extend the restrictions to technical assistance services and to include the possibility of an emergency procedure to amend annexes ii, iii and iiia. the european parliament voted in october 2015 a series of amendments which amended the proposal, subsequently opening the informal trilogue with the council, which was successfully concluded on 24 may 2016. i am firmly against the death penalty and i consider this proposal for a regulation to be very important in order to protect the right to life of every human being. that is why i voted in favour of its approval.
in writing. ‒ strengthening the 2005 regulation will allow for better control of trade in goods that are or could be improperly used for capital punishment or torture. i voted in favour of this legislative update as it aims to close the loopholes in the basic text, ensuring the right combination of eu legislative, administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of tools with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. more restrictions on marketing, promotion and transit within the union have also been introduced, as well as a system of prior authorisation for intermediation and technical assistance in respect of controlled goods. i hope that this approach will ensure effective controls and checks without any unnecessary burden that hampers legitimate business activities.
in writing. ‒ the following strategic agreement covers the exchange of information in the following areas: expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations. the new europol regulation will enter into force in the european union in 2017, providing for a new procedure in which the role of the european parliament is strengthened. the procedure is that parliament gives an opinion and not just its approval, as is the case at present. for the reasons described above and in line with my views on international agreements with third countries, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the people's republic of china is playing an increasingly important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against organised crime. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the moraes report approving the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. it will enable a wide exchange of information on expertise, reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and training activities. given the presence of several high-impact organised criminal groups in the asian country, cooperation on issues such as illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, cybercrime and money laundering could prove particularly fruitful, strengthening the action of both sides in the area of justice and security. it should be noted that the agreement does not provide for the exchange of personal data, thus ensuring the protection of the rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for an agreement on strategic cooperation between the people's republic of china and europol. i believe that greater cooperation between this country and europol will ensure more effective policies and action in the fight against crime, and i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and the chinese ministry of public security because i share the strategic goal of increasing our effectiveness in preventing serious forms of crime. only the cooperation between global actors in security matters can improve the prevention efforts we carry out.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the member states share responsibilities for maintaining the security, justice, freedom and fundamental rights of the citizens of the union: this requires the creation of an effective level of data protection in the judicial and police activities of the eu and its member states. pushing for the creation of common institutions harmonising activities, by implementing genuine cooperation between supervisory authorities at national and union level, on the one hand, and increasing cooperation with police forces in third countries, on the other hand, is essential to improve strategic and operational cooperation between the member states of the european union and their trading partners, with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, mafias, smuggling and international crime, thus increasing the security of both eu citizens and those of partner countries.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the europol-china strategic cooperation agreement because it is clear that europol has an operational need to work with china. china is playing an increasingly important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against organised crime, facilitation of illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, cybercrime and money laundering-related activities. it also appears that china is home to several organized crime groups. i am therefore in favour of concluding this strategic cooperation agreement with china, because i believe that it can be a valuable aid and support in the fight against organised crime and help to strengthen international cooperation in the field of law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement between europol and china covers the exchange of information, but excludes personal data. the information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations. however, it cannot be said that these are not sensitive data and, moreover, the new procedure which sees a strengthened role for parliament in the conclusion of agreements with third countries is not yet used. i therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ organised crime and terrorism do not stop at the eu's borders to counter its activities. given their transactional nature, coordinated action and exchanges of information are also necessary with non-community countries. europol has an important role to play in making europe safer, including through strategic cooperation agreements with third countries such as china. the people's republic of china is playing an increasingly important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against international crime. i voted in favour of this because good international cooperation is an indispensable condition for combating organised crime effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration which concerns the idea of approving a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. this strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data and therefore the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities. there appears to be a clear operational need for europol to cooperate with china. according to europol, china plays an important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitation of illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, cybercrime and money laundering-related activities. china is home to several major organized crime groups. the rapporteur is in favour of concluding this strategic cooperation agreement with china, as it would help and support the fight against organised crime and help to strengthen international cooperation in law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ endorses the resolution on europol's strategic agreements with china. it is recalled that europol is the european police office and that its purpose is to improve cooperation between the police forces of the member states in order to combat terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and other serious forms of international organised crime. these are therefore strategic agreements relating solely to the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information and not to operational cooperation agreements. this agreement therefore excludes the exchange of personal data with china.
in writing. ‒ in the name of the fight against international crime, i can only express my full support for the close strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the people's republic of china. the agreement includes the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information and, while excluding the exchange of personal data, provides for synchronisation of the specific knowledge required, the results of strategic analyses, investigative procedures and prevention methods, as well as training and support in specific cases. the newly approved strategic alignment will make it possible to combat organised crime in a more modern and aware manner, and to achieve much closer international cooperation, given that china is now the source, destination and transit point for illegal immigration, human trafficking, counterfeiting and corruption. as a 2011 cnel report showed, chinese organized crime has long been present in our territory and is mainly engaged in human trafficking, prostitution, gambling, extortion and, above all, counterfeiting of our brands and textile products. i therefore hope that these phenomena will be gradually reduced by the cohesion of as many states as have access to strategic agreements of the same size.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because a strategic cooperation between europol and china can lead to the conclusion of important operational cooperation agreements with the police in order to prevent and combat organised crime, also reducing the transit of terrorist groups through the exchange of strategic and technical information. it is important to develop a common strategy to combat those criminal phenomena which are still particularly present in china, such as facilitating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as cybercrime and money laundering activities.
in writing. ‒ china is playing an increasingly important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against organised crime. i therefore welcomed its inclusion in the list of countries with which europol can open negotiations to conclude a draft cooperation agreement. i believe that this is an important first step towards more structured support in the fight against organised crime. strategic cooperation, through the exchange of information, can only give impetus to strengthened enforcement initiatives, thus contributing to a significant strengthening of cooperation in the fight against cross-border organised crime.
in writing. ‒ china today can play an important role in the international fight against organised crime as a country of origin, transit and destination for illicit proceeds from such activities as human trafficking, drug trafficking, violations of intellectual property rights, cybercrime and money laundering. the strategic cooperation agreement with china is a key element in the fight against these phenomena. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ chinese organised crime in the eu is a growing security problem for member states in areas such as human trafficking, drugs and money laundering. i voted in favour of the report to improve cooperation between europol and china in the fight against organised crime and to strengthen international law enforcement cooperation. better control will also lead to greater transparency in political and economic relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the conclusion of the agreement between europol and china on the exchange of information, excluding personal data, in the field of strategic cooperation. the vote was justified by the growing role china has assumed as a country of transit and destination in the fight against organised crime and by its fulfillment of the requirements for the conclusion of the agreement. this agreement includes, among other things, the exchange of information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i support the need for the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information between different actors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution tabled by the european parliament on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol, because i am firmly convinced that cooperation between europol and china is, at this historic moment, useful and even necessary. i believe that the transmission and exchange of information between the eu and china is essential, particularly in the fight against the facilitation of illegal immigration and human trafficking. i also believe that cooperation between the various authorities should also extend to other areas, such as infringement of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, cybercrime and money laundering, given the increasingly important role that china has to play at global level in the fight against organised crime. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement because it will certainly help to strengthen international cooperation in respect of human rights, the rule of law and the rule of law. i hope that we can start working together on projects and strategies right away.
in writing. the proposal under consideration concerns the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. according to europol, china plays a very important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against organised crime, as well as against the facilitation of immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, money laundering and the infringement of intellectual property rights. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt the draft decision authorising europol to conclude the agreement with china. i believe that this agreement will be a great help in the fight against organised crime and will also help to strengthen international law enforcement cooperation; i therefore give my assent.
in writing. ‒ my vote was positive for the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the prc and europol. such cooperation will benefit both sides not only in their fight against organised crime but also by contributing to enhancing international law enforcement cooperation. on the other hand, the international cooperation agreements with third countries, in this case china, will bring a handful of benefits that will result in limiting the harm and side of effects of problems such as illegal immigration, human trafficking, drug related crimes, cybercrime and money laundering activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure concerning the proposal to approve a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case as this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data while it could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods. china is playing an increasingly important role as a country of origin, transit and destination in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related offences and counterfeiting of the euro. it is therefore strategic and crucial for europol to start a partnership with this country.
in writing. ‒ i thought it necessary to express my support for the proposal under consideration. the global dynamics require a collaborative relationship between the different intelligence and security agencies. whereas the proposal covers a strategic agreement aimed at exchanging information, general situations, methods of crime prevention and the provision of advice and support in the context of specific criminal investigations; whereas the conclusion of this agreement would help in the fight against organised crime by sharing knowledge with a state such as china, which is increasingly active in combating such types of organisations; since this type of cooperation does not involve the exchange of sensitive and personal data which could in any way harm the persons directly concerned, i feel i must express myself positively. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure greater support for the fight against organised crime, the council approved the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the minister of public security of the people's republic of china. in particular, the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations. the rapporteur is in favour of concluding this strategic cooperation agreement with china. i believe that it would help to strengthen international cooperation in law enforcement and therefore i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament approved the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and the european police office (europol). recent studies have found that over the past decade, chinese organised crime has entered the crime landscape of a number of eu countries. criminal activities include extortion, trafficking in human beings, the production and trafficking of illegal drugs, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, illegal gambling, counterfeiting of consumer goods, as well as cybercrime and money laundering-related activities. there is therefore a clear operational need for europol to cooperate with china. the key to success in the fight against organised crime lies in the exchange of information and expertise on criminal groups at eu level and with the countries concerned, such as china. europol can play a key role in this context in order to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of concluding this strategic cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the europol-china strategic cooperation agreement. this agreement between europol and the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china provides for the exchange of information, but not personal data, as china has not yet adapted to the high standards proposed by the european union on data protection.
in writing. ‒ the eu-acp relations date back to the postcolonial period, and were institutionalised through the first lomé convention. today, the eu-acp partnership is governed by the cotonou agreement, which is based on three fundamental pillars: aid, trade and economic cooperation. despite the positive results achieved so far, there is still much work to be done and the focus of the partnership in the future should be on the growth of the acp countries, the new geopolitical realities, globalisation and regionalisation.
in writing. ‒ 80% of the world's least developed countries are in the african, caribbean and pacific regions; the acp countries have been able to take advantage of the new opportunities offered by the lomé convention and, since 2000, the cotonou convention. the objective of the latter agreement was to reduce and eliminate poverty, pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of these countries into the world economy. the expiry of the agreement in 2020 requires fresh thinking within the eu, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the neuser report which outlines some prospects for the future of relations between the two regions. a new structure should be created that preserves the parts of the acp-eu acquis that are universal in nature, such as the commitment to human rights, good governance and democracy, but at the same time allows the main activities to be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. political dialogue, the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda must be at the heart of new agreements, including the establishment of monitoring, accountability and peer review mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the targets on a regular basis.
in writing. ‒ the text acknowledges that the acp-eu partnership agreement has so far been ineffective in combating poverty in africa, the caribbean and the pacific, which represent 80% of the world's least developed areas. however, instead of thinking about a better use of the resources already available, the text insists on the creation of new funds for migration. i therefore believe that the resolution is unbalanced in favour of the usual good-natured rhetoric which does not lead to any concrete results for the acp countries. for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020 because a new structure of cooperation must be adopted and a new commitment to human rights and democracy needs to be approved. moreover, i believe the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals have to be the focus of the new agreement and its implementation has to be monitored. last but not least, i share the call on all the parties to the agreement to give to local and regional governments a greater autonomy in order to enable them to play a significant role in the development of acp countries.
in writing. ‒ it is important to rebuild the acp-eu relationship on a new basis, creating a partnership that promotes strategic interests and shared values. it will have to pursue the objectives of sustainable development and ensure respect for human rights. it is essential that the acp countries participate fully in the review process, which should also take into account the growing importance of regionalisation. it would also be appropriate to carry out a thorough analysis of the past achievements and failures of the existing framework before taking decisions on the future of acp-eu relations. cooperation will need to be stepped up, particularly in areas of common interest, in order to address today's global challenges more effectively. this new partnership will have to be based on the principles of mutual growth and development between the eu and africa; facilitating the industrialisation of the african continent and the development of agriculture and encouraging investment in innovation and sustainable development policies. the future partnership should also provide for more effective joint action on conflict prevention, as a stable security environment is an essential condition for achieving the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the cotonou agreement has been a valuable platform for cooperation between the eu and the acp countries for many years now, given the large number of countries that are parties to the agreement and the links established between their peoples and parliaments. however, it is noted that half of the acp countries are still among the least developed countries in the world, and that together these countries account for less than 5% of world trade and about 2% of global gdp. the mobilisation of national resources in the acp countries and the funds of the diaspora can be an important source of development finance. the new cooperation agreement will have to provide for a stronger parliamentary dimension, through the much-desired joint parliamentary assembly (jpa). the main objective of this will be to facilitate an open and democratic parliamentary dialogue. further efforts will also be needed in the field of development cooperation, the promotion of democracy and human rights. the new agreement will therefore have to reflect an ambitious political project and make good governance a cornerstone, leaving behind, as the report rightly points out, the harmful donor-recipient mentality.
in writing. ‒ convinced of the importance of relations between the acp countries (africa, caribbean, pacific) and the european union, i voted in favour of this report on the future relations between the eu and the 79 acp countries, whose partnership is currently governed by the cotonou agreement, which will expire in 2020.
in writing. ‒ over the past 40 years, the partnership between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries has been a valuable tool for strengthening development cooperation and trade. i believe that the new agreement must be primarily a political project based on sustainability and reducing disparities. only sustainable and lasting development can ensure an effective fight against poverty, which is the primary objective of eu-acp cooperation. we need to move beyond the donor-recipient mentality to build a strong partnership with reliable monitoring mechanisms and a peer review system that periodically monitors the implementation of common objectives. finally, it is important to involve civil society, in particular the local groups directly concerned, in the negotiations for the new agreement, and to give a voice to the most vulnerable groups such as minorities, young people and women, who are too often not given the opportunity to make their demands known. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report which examines a number of proposals for the renewal of the acp-eu agreement (partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part). the agreement has so far not brought any benefit in reducing poverty in the acp areas. the proposal also includes the establishment of a joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) which would become yet another useless political instrument.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the future of relations between the african, pacific and caribbean countries and the union as it strengthens the spirit of cooperation between our nations, giving new life to common areas and interests. in particular, i am pleased that the new objectives proposed correspond to the needs that have been identified in the wake of demographic and structural change and the most significant institutional changes. while the report remains in line with the principles set out in the cotonou agreement concerning the eradication of poverty, democratic principles, the assertion of the rule of law and support for more sustainable development, it does add a number of points on the principle of subsidiarity and respect for cooperation, including at regional level. the monitoring, reliability and review mechanism between countries aimed at periodic monitoring of the implementation of the sustainable development goals is one of the aspects to be highlighted. the establishment of a joint parliamentary assembly will also create a new forum for dialogue and debate that is as open, democratic and fruitful as possible. this is accompanied by economic partnership agreements, which are milestones for integration and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is useful to improve the effectiveness of acp-eu cooperation and to adapt it to the new challenges resulting from the political, structural and demographic changes of recent years. the new structure should also maintain the commitment to human rights, good governance and democracy, while the main activities should be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. they should be based on general agreements adapted to specific regional needs and mutual interests between the union and the respective region. it is also important that the private sector can be heard during the policy-making process of programming so that it can play a key role in the development process and can then help to finance it, provided that investments are made with respect for people, property, the environment and in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. i also hope that the new partnership will give greater attention to local small-scale producers and farmers and create a favourable environment for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
in writing. ‒ more than 80% of the world's leastdeveloped countries are in acp regions. the acp-eu partnership remains an important scenario in the light of the sustainable development goals, the main objective of the cotonou agreement identified as poverty reduction and eradication and the values on which eu external action is based, such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that economic partnership agreements remain a fundamental instrument for promoting the integration of the acp states into the global economy, making full use of the potential of regional integration and promoting peace and security at local and cross-border level. the new cooperation agreement introduces interesting new features, such as the joint parliamentary assembly, which will be involved in all relevant discussions concerning the post-2020 acp-eu partnership, thus ensuring inclusive and multilateral participation of stakeholders. the report also stresses the need for a dedicated instrument for security expenditure linked to development cooperation, overtaking the approach of the european development fund (edf) as the main source of funding for the african peace fund.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this measure by which the european parliament calls on the commission to review and strengthen relations between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the report is parliament's contribution to the follow-up of the cotonou agreement, launched in 2000 and due to expire in 2020, which regulated the eu's political and trade relations with the acp countries, including financial aid. high-profile international issues such as the fight against poverty, climate change, the management of migration flows and the fight against terrorism need a common platform for the eu and the countries concerned to cooperate in solving problems that can only be solved jointly. the cotonou agreement has helped to strengthen relations with the acp countries and to develop a framework for doing so. however, much has changed since the agreement came into force, and its updating is a good opportunity to review and improve the arrangements for political and economic cooperation with our acp partners.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report because i believe it is important to outline the future of acp-eu relations after 2020, the date on which the cotonou agreements expire. the report identifies as its cornerstones the promotion of human rights and the rule of law, as well as economic and trade development between the areas concerned, encouraging the private sector to invest in such cooperation in accordance with un principles.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report, which in my view is insufficient and risks being another highly political and ineffective instrument.
in writing. ‒ the report by the committee on development gives a very comprehensive overview of the cooperation agreements with african, caribbean and pacific countries which have been the most important form of eu-developing country relations for over 40 years. i think it is very important to remember the political success of this report. the cotonou agreements now include more than 100 countries, with a framework of cooperation in various political, economic and trade fields that is highly advanced and with a large budget financed by the european development fund. i particularly support the report by the committee on development on the need for an even more ambitious review of these agreements, in view of the changes in the global political and economic landscape, and to provide for more effective forms of achieving the objectives of the agreement, particularly in terms of poverty reduction and the strengthening of democratic standards. as an elected representative of europe, i too would like to stress the importance of interparliamentary cooperation between these macro-regional areas, which operates through the acp parliament, the largest interparliamentary assembly in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 because i believe that the time has come to update relations with these countries, based on the cotonou convention and its predecessors. the strength and the acquis of the cotonou agreement are based on its unique characteristics: the european union is a legally binding document, with an unprecedented number of countries joining (79+28 member countries), based on three pillars of development cooperation, political and economic and trade cooperation, and above all with a common institutional framework and a substantial budget (european development fund). i hope that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) will become the focus of a new agreement and that robust monitoring mechanisms will be established to ensure that the implementation of the agreement contributes to the achievement and promotion of the sdgs. the post-cotonou agreement should be a framework political agreement, setting binding minimum requirements for epas (economic partnership agreements), in order to ensure continuity of constraints on provisions on good governance, respect for human rights, including of the most vulnerable persons, and respect for social and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, more than ever, relations between the european union and the acp countries need to be reviewed in the light of all the elements of cooperation based on the donor-recipient logic, which has not produced much in the last few years. the new cooperation no longer speaks the language of assistance: with the new investment plan for africa, we really have an opportunity to create economic development and just societies. and this development path can only be linked to the pacification of an area that has already been the scene of too many tragedies. investment must be accompanied by controls and constraints. it is a path of institutional cooperation that focuses primarily on building more just societies, with great attention to respect for human rights. the joint parliamentary assembly must strengthen its role. the work must focus on regional focuses, analyze specific contexts, solve problems, develop strategies that serve in the context also as best practice for other similar situations. europe must help africa to become an equal partner and the commitment must be maximum.
in writing. the report under review aims to highlight the need to create a new structure, which retains its commitment to human rights, good governance and democracy. the main activities should be carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the principle of determining regional agreements adapted to the specific regional needs and mutual interests between the european union and the region. acp-eu cooperation is therefore a valuable achievement which, over the last 40 years, has strengthened the links between the peoples and countries of the acp and the eu and between their respective parliaments. at the same time, a monitoring, accountability and audit mechanism is required to ensure the implementation of the sustainable development goals in the member countries on a cyclical basis, with the relevant participation of acp and eu representatives from central government institutions, parliaments and regional and local authorities. i therefore support the report in the light of the foregoing.
in writing. ‒ in regard to the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020, i expressed a favourable vote given the fact that the partnership has been crucial in making progress towards achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs). the report also encourages engagement with other partners around the globe such as the united nations or the african union to tackle the challenges of wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition. finally yet importantly, the report calls for all international actors to come together to fight and eradicate poverty and inequalities while promoting sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ given the renewed centrality of relations between the european union and acp countries and the expiry in 2020 of the legal framework established by the cotonou convention, we strongly support the neuser report. since its foundation, the european union, recognising its historic responsibility and the need to promote a model of sustainable development in areas with high levels of poverty, has pursued policies of assistance and cooperation. the cooperation, which is characterized by a holistic approach, has been based on three pillars since 1975, the year of the lomé convention: the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the opening of negotiations to civil society and national parliaments, together with asymmetric trade facilitations, has led to a fruitful dialogue on human rights. however, looking ahead to 2020, we believe that the effectiveness of measures to support economic development and the rule of law must be reinforced, including through stricter legal clauses that make trade facilitation conditional on respect for fundamental rights. finally, we cannot fail to stress the importance of africa and the need for a broad european policy which considers migration as part of a complex phenomenon and which is able to recognize its remote causes.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to express my support for the proposal under consideration. i believe that the acp-eu partnership is of great importance, given that over 80% of the world's least developed countries are in acp regions. the european union, as a major player on the international scene, cannot fail to establish agreements aimed at promoting economic growth and welfare in these areas. the aim is to reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty in such a way as to achieve the development of a lasting and progressive integration of the acp countries, while safeguarding a set of values and principles which include respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ over the past 40 years, acp-eu cooperation has strengthened the links between the peoples and countries of the acp and the eu. however, progress in the objectives of poverty eradication and the integration of the acp countries into the world economy has so far been insufficient. half of the acp countries are among the least developed countries and together these countries account for less than 5% of world trade and about 2% of global gdp. to improve the effectiveness of cooperation and make it fit for the challenges of today, it is necessary to rethink its structure, while maintaining the general principles of a universal nature (human rights, gender equality, human development, democracy, the rule of law, etc.) and organising the main activities on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity (favouring regional agreements and the participation of local actors and civil society). at the same time, a formal right of control over the programming of the european development fund (edf) by the european parliament should be guaranteed. budgeting the edf would allow for democratic control, enhance visibility and increase transparency and effectiveness in the use of eu development funds. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, through this report, underlines the importance of cooperation between the acp countries and the eu. the text stresses that, in order to enhance their effectiveness and avoid overlaps, regional agreements with african, caribbean and pacific countries should be designed to take account of existing regional organisations, such as the african union, and existing regional agreements, such as economic partnership agreements (epas). given the changed political and economic landscape in which the acp states operate following the signing of the cotonou agreement, i believe that the key to improving cooperation with the eu must be sought in the private sector, through the promotion of public-private partnerships. i am convinced that the fight against poverty and, in the long term, its eradication must remain the main objective of the new acp-eu agreements. for all these reasons i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ since 2000, the cotonou agreement has provided the framework for development finance cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and political dialogue between the 28 member states of the european union (eu) and 78 african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. since that agreement will expire in february 2020, it is necessary to define a new partnership taking into account the achievements and shortcomings of the agreement. over the past two decades, acp-eu relations have developed substantially. however, the effectiveness of cooperation needs to be improved and adapted to new international challenges that have an impact at all levels in the eu member states and the acp states, such as climate change, water, energy and food security, migration, health, security and financial issues. i voted in favour of the report, which is a good starting point for the forthcoming discussions on the future post-cotonou agreement. in particular, i welcome the fact that the report stresses the key role that the private sector can play in the development process and the importance of creating a favourable environment for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the new partnership.
the greek crisis has been one of the most difficult, dramatic and important tests for the european union. the unity and irreversibility of the eurozone have been at risk, while the greek people have suffered the hardships of a crisis that has hit them very hard. the consequences of the recession of recent years continue to bite, but today we can finally say that we see light at the end of the tunnel. greece's membership of the euro area is no longer in doubt and, after a year of better-than-expected results, the estimate of significant growth for 2017 appears realistic, as does the achievement of a primary surplus slightly above the target of the memorandum of understanding. we must acknowledge the commitment and courage of the greek government which, after the referendum, was able to make difficult choices and correct its course, rescuing the country from the abyss and negotiating a challenging programme which involved painful choices but which contains new elements of social equity which were absent from previous programmes. at the same time, it is also necessary to acknowledge that the european commission has always opposed the prospect of grexit and has played a valuable role in mediating certain excessively closed and selfish positions of certain creditors. it is now essential that we do not lose momentum and seize the opportunity for a real breakthrough. first, you need to complete the milestones and have the second tranche paid off so you can start the second review. we know that this review will be demanding and must be conducted with balance, especially on the labour market reform side. in this context, it would be good if the monetary fund would refrain from adding fuel to the fire in a delicate budgetary procedure by airing out additional measures which are not necessary. at the same time, creditors need to seriously address not only the issue of the implementation of short-term debt relief measures, but also the more concrete definition of medium-term measures. it is clear that even if the figures are better than forecast, a prolonged primary surplus of 3.5 does not appear to be sustainable. we do not ask for an immediate and precise quantification of all these measures and we respect the political needs of some member states, but this must not be an alibi to avoid giving substance to the conclusions of the eurogroup and overcoming an ambiguity which would be an obstacle not only to the participation of the monetary fund in the programme but also to the credibility of the recovery prospects for greece and the possibility of finally associating greece with the qe of the ecb. this parliament will continue its role of monitoring and enriching the democratic dimension of the economic adjustment programmes for greece and the union as a whole. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i'm not sure i understand. frankly, more than a question, it seemed to me a respectable but unshared statement. i am a firm believer in the prospects for growth and development in greece in the euro area and we must, on the one hand, encourage reforms and, on the other, support a policy of growth, investment and social equity in greece and throughout the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i find myself today in extreme difficulty and embarrassment because i am hearing, for the umpteenth time in all these years, the same speeches about solutions, recovery, structural reforms and growth. we are in a paradox, because everything you have proposed so far has been a failure. you don't want to admit it, and instead you go on, persevering in your mistakes. i have seen greece in the last few months and i have seen with my own eyes what the real situation is. we can talk about figures and percentages, but it all becomes superfluous and annoying when poverty is on every street corner, when even the so-called middle class is starving. you destroyed a people and a nation to save two banks and a single currency. but are you satisfied with your result? commissioner moscovici, what does europe mean to you? is it more important that families survive in dignity, that children no longer suffer from hunger, or that the stability of the eurozone is preserved? because in the name of this phantom stability of the eurozone, you have turned the cradle of europe into a tomb. europe died in greece and now you want to send your emissaries to collect the ashes of what you destroyed, just like that, to complete the work. greece should close the door to it, take back its sovereignty and pride, because this european union has behaved criminally towards it, trampling on the rights and dignity of millions of greek citizens, but also of europeans. greece is a clear example of the failure of the single currency and the european union, in which the interests of the strongest are at stake and the weakest are crushed. we want to reverse this and the peoples of europe must be made aware that their dignity is worth more than any criminal agreement imposed by brussels.
i'm asking for a blue card. i agree with a lot of what the honourable member has just said, but i would like to understand. in your view, then, does the problem remain only austerity, as tsipras thought, or should it be called by its real name, namely economic and monetary union and therefore the euro? do you think that it is in the interest of the greeks to defend this political instrument religiously at this time, or do you think that we should start talking about getting out of this instrument in order to bring growth and development back to a country that will not find a solution otherwise?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you can talk all you want about the economic recipe for getting out of the crisis, but as long as it is brussels which decides what the states can and cannot do, nothing will change. in greece, unemployment is rampant and families are starving, just as in italy where there are 4 million poor people. citizens so poor that they can afford only one meal a day, or lunch or dinner. greece and italy suffer from the same disease, a disease that is destroying our economy and the lives of our citizens. all this disaster has been caused by this wrong europe, by the wrong treaties, by the wrong currency. either we cure this disaster, this cancer, or else we prepare ourselves for the end of the european dream and the funeral of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate is 'conflicts of interest in the european union'. i am laughing, but we should be crying about this, because we are also starting from the assumption that we have a president of the commission, who has been supported by all the other groups, who is in charge of a de facto tax haven, which has seen more bank ceos in the last 18 years than european citizens. this is president juncker right now. then we have barroso, the previous president, who now finds himself working for goldman sachs, which happens to be another bank, another elite, another potentate. let's see if these banks are based in tax havens and what the european commission is doing and what these people are doing, instead of breathing their last breath, from a legislative point of view to go and plug this problem, because banks and big multinationals do a little bit of what they want and then they hire them too. so some people may rightly wonder whether there is a conflict of interest between these people and the big multinationals, the big elites and the banks, and whether the european union is based on this, not on the interests of the citizens but on the interests of the great powers. i am addressing the commissioner because i see someone who may be trying to bring this issue to the fore in words, but then nothing happens. the recommendations have always been made in the taxe and panama papers committees. i thank the investigative journalists who keep this media pressure up. but the credibility of this european union is zero, with these people still representing us and with these members still voting in these committees.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bahamas leaks case opens up a scenario even more worrying than the panama papers. it is a scandal that this former commissioner, mrs kroes, while threatening tax evaders, was cultivating undeclared interests in banks, holding the post of director for the period 2000-2009 of an offshore company still active today. but how could this commissioner of yours, who was in solidarity with citizens oppressed by taxes and who wanted to launch investigations into the extra profits accumulated by tax evaders, sit in the same seat as you, mr moscovici, who in this chamber seems to me to be alice in wonderland. but have you ever heard of the secret meetings of the bilderberg group, the trilateral committee, which have been and are happily attended by commission presidents and commissioners, where governments decide, the euro is decided, the whole political, economic and financial history is decided? you're all about conflict of interest. this european union is a monument to conflict of interest and secrecy and non-transparency. do not take the european citizens by the ass.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the five star movement is seven years old. for seven years we have been fighting the conflicts of interest of all those politicians who, abusing their power, alienate citizens from public institutions. the five star movement cannot accept this disgrace! we don't want to be part of a rotten system! president juncker, who is leaving the debate today, the undisputed protagonist of the luxleaks case, represents a gigantic conflict of interest. cañete, his choice, is an oilman appointed commissioner for climate and energy. but this is the normal practice of the european commission. barroso, his predecessor, is now at goldman sachs. former commissioner kroes on the digital agenda has now been appointed as an advisor to uber. i'll stop there, but the list could be very long. i wonder if juncker has thought about his future, what he will do when his term as president is over. will he be back to consulting for some tax haven? is he working for some lobby? president. - the european citizens are asking for concrete facts. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too was very surprised and negatively surprised by the way in which some members of the commission commented on events such as mrs kroes's and even earlier barroso's. the facts we are discussing are facts which undermine the credibility of the european institutions. for this reason, we must make some critical comments and, above all, take steps to restore the credibility of the institution and prevent it from falling into the same situation as it is today. that is why i believe that courageous but rapid decisions are essential. the first is to rewrite the code of conduct. it is not enough as it is, as has been said many times, including in this debate. it must be drawn up by an independent committee, which also has the right to intervene autonomously, and the penalties for infringements must be very severe in order to have not only a bearing on the violation of the right that has been exercised but also a deterrent effect, which is very valuable in these cases. finally, i believe that the period of suspension, the period between the end of the activity and the beginning of a new professional cycle, must be absolutely extended. i would add, however, that perhaps the extension of time alone is not enough. for commissioners who have fulfilled specific functions, certain areas will have to be excluded in their subsequent activity, otherwise the time that is extended may not be sufficient.
member of the commission. i am aware of the concerns expressed in this house, which i know - i am a member of a political committee, its chairman is a politician and we are politicians - and which also reflect a lot of questions, questions and, sometimes, reactions in public opinion. there's a lot of emotion going on, and i can feel it. there are certain convictions, namely that exemplarity and transparency cannot be divided or reduced, that there should be no compromise with this, and i fully share these convictions. there may be, here or there, this or that excess, which i can understand and which i would like to see a little more moderate. while it is true that some situations are debatable and discussed, we must always - we are in legal systems - respect people and their right to assert their rights. i would also like to see us here in this house particularly avoiding amalgamations, attacks or the risk of weakening an institution in the name of this or that behaviour. i would like - and i feel very strongly - to avoid shooting at the brussels pianist, because the european commission, to which you are addressing yourself, particularly on the subject of the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, is an institution which does more than many others, not only in this field but also in safeguarding the ethics and guaranteeing those of its members and former members. again, let us be able to discern what may be involved in each individual case and what needs to be dealt with without damaging, weakening or even defiling this clean and beautiful institution. i would like to reiterate the commission's commitment to applying and enforcing the highest standards of political and ethical conduct in the exercise of its responsibilities, and to shedding light on the behaviour of its former members which would or would have contravened the rules in force and to take appropriate action. that is a commitment made by the president, and i say it very clearly on his behalf. i believe that president juncker - i spoke to him about this when i came here to defend this position before you - is the first to regret that the situations you have mentioned are now the subject of such discussions. in this context, the president - since this is part of his prerogatives - has taken the necessary measures at his disposal. it asked for explanations when it felt it should and consulted the ad hoc ethics committee on the basis of these explanations in two cases involving members of the previous commission. when the opinions of the ad hoc ethics committee reach us - they have been requested - the commission will discuss them and decide on the appropriate action to be taken. you have seen - and i said so in my introductory speech - that these decisions have always been respected, and the commission will of course continue to do so. president juncker is committed to keeping this parliament fully informed of the follow-up to these individual cases. i would like to say again that we must also respect the right of individuals to assert their rights. we have treaties that set out obligations, a code of conduct to enforce them and a committee of ethics that we have to trust. the notions of honesty and delicacy, which mrs beres has mentioned, are there. these concepts, which apply not only for the period of 18 months but also for the whole of life, are not in fact devoid of meaning and should not be devoid of meaning for men and women who may at some point have the honour of holding office in the commission, even if later on - we cannot wish for lives to be fossilized or frozen - they may resume or pursue political or professional activities in the private sector. in conclusion, i think that the problems raised by the members of the previous commission should not be turned into an amalgam of the commission and parliament. let us not use material errors or regrettable personal choices to call into question rules which can never govern or determine the solution of this type of situation. the rules of the treaty and the code of conduct are firm. they represent standards - i repeat - that go far beyond what is applied in the majority of member states or in all the other european institutions. the commission undertakes to apply them with the necessary rigour and in full transparency vis-à-vis this parliament. we will of course be attentive to the debates on these subjects in your chamber and will give our full support, particularly to the work of the pana committee. i have already declared myself available to come before it, both to deal with these questions, but also and above all to discuss the very substance of the policy which we - parliament and the commission - must pursue together, which we must also push towards the member states, and which must be a policy of tax transparency first and foremost. from this point of view - and i repeat this - you have before you an ambitious and bold commission. the juncker commission will always be guided by the principles of exemplarity and transparency.
in writing. i have spoken on tax transparency and conflict of interest several times and each time i am embarrassed to have to defend the european institutions from those who should be protecting them. the luxleaks and panama papers scandals have not yet faded, and we are witnessing a domino effect in the bahamas. it is no accident that the issue of tax transparency is linked to the commissioners' conflict of interest, but this must be dealt with with in a very clear way: the commission's code of conduct, which prohibits any outside activity in the context of the mandate, is one problem, while it is another to contribute to 'genuine damage to the image' by announcing that it will work for influential consultancies after the mandate. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the fight against fraud and tax evasion.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in april we had an exchange of views in this house on the impact of the migration crisis in the european union, particularly on the transport sector. we are all fully aware of the many challenges posed by migratory flows, including in calais. together with commissioner bulc, we take this issue very seriously and we want to find sustainable and viable solutions to, firstly, ensure the normal crossing of borders for people and goods in calais and, secondly, to improve the management of migration flows in this area and the living conditions of the migrants present. we must bear in mind that the franco-british border is an external border of the schengen area. for this reason, specific bilateral agreements have been concluded between france and the united kingdom, such as the touquet agreement in 2003. we recognize the desperation of migrants trying to board trains or lorries to get to the uk, but their attempts are clearly having a negative effect on the transport sector. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of passengers and the number of freight trains. we are continuing to work with all relevant stakeholders on two aspects. on the one hand, the safety of the transport of goods and people and, on the other hand, the management of the humanitarian and migration situation. ladies and gentlemen, while the maintenance of public order and security is the responsibility of france on its national territory, our objective is that the passage of people and goods across the border should function normally. the commission has taken exceptional measures to reduce the impact on the transport sector over the past summer. we have allowed the united kingdom to derogate temporarily from the rules on the working hours of road drivers. this allowed drivers to wait in a safe parking place to rest. in the summer of 2015, the commission wrote to the french and uk authorities. we have called on them to install security equipment as quickly as possible in the transport facilities near calais. we also called on the french and british authorities to coordinate their police and customs forces more closely with a view to improving the efficiency of border controls and reducing traffic congestion. this reduces the risk of migrants getting into the trailers. as a result, the number of illegal intrusions into transport terminals has decreased dramatically. according to eurotunnel, this year there were less than 17,500 interceptions up to september. this figure should be compared to the 80 829 interceptions that took place in 2015. however, i am sure i have seen some recent tv reports showing that the problem of migrants has moved away from the transport terminals in calais. the smugglers are present in the truck parking areas, sometimes several hundred kilometres from calais. in this regard, the commission services are preparing recommendations for the road freight transport sector to improve the security of vehicles of all types against unauthorised intrusion. we will consult extensively with the interested parties. i hope to be able to present these documents at the end of the spring of next year. the french authorities have had to deal with the situation in terms of security and migration issues. they deployed police forces and moved migrants from near calais to centres across the territory. in this connection, the commission welcomes the intention of the french authorities to dismantle the calais jungle by the end of the year. we are convinced that this will help to improve living conditions. this is particularly necessary to improve the plight of the many unaccompanied minors present in calais. the dismantling of the unorganized camp around calais must be accompanied by the proper application of the european union's rules on asylum for persons in need of protection and rules on the return of those without a legal right of residence. at the same time, the situation in calais demonstrates that the sources of migration must be better managed in the context of common action and a common policy on emigration. in this context, as you know, the commission has proposed a large number of measures to improve the management of migration flows and to combat the smuggling of migrants. these measures have already significantly reduced the flow of migrants across europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. it is europe not only because it belongs to it geographically, but above all because what is happening in calais is a miniature reflection of what is happening elsewhere in europe. we must reconcile security and humanity in calais. security for all, europeans and foreigners, who have the right to live and grow up in safe places, not to have to bow to human traffickers, not to live in shacks or slums, to be able to trade freely. the french government of françois hollande has therefore decided to close what is brutally called the "calais jungle", which is a bad name. concern for security, if not accompanied by humanity, becomes disorder. we all know that if we do not provide alternative housing, assistance and protection for asylum seekers, the huts of tomorrow will be built on the rubble of today, and will be even more wretched and unhealthy. the people who invoke the bulldozer do not have a monopoly on security, but rather a monopoly on the unhealthiness, misery and insecurity that will be created. the choice to end the jungle makes sense if it responds to a human imperative, because in calais there are lives, stories, people who cannot be swept away, there is also energy, a hunger for life, which has driven so many men and women to embark on a long journey in which calais, although it seems a dead end, is only a stopover. humanitarian protection and assistance must be provided to these people, especially to unaccompanied minors, as commissioner avramopoulos pointed out a short while ago. the burden of this support cannot be left as usual on the shoulders of the poorest, and nord-pas-de-calais is one of the poorest departments in france. it is therefore right to distribute asylum seekers in france and, i might add, in europe. we're talking about 0.01 of the french population. i would like to conclude by calling for consistency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. clear your minds and above all understand that borders do not solve problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is one fundamental flaw in today's debate, and there are more than one. the first is the hypocrisy of those who today tell yet another story about reception, a reception which is sometimes uncritical, a reception in which it is difficult to distinguish between asylum seekers who have this right and economic migrants who cannot have the right to asylum. and above all the hypocrisy of a debate which should be about how to prevent honest motorists from becoming defendants because of our uncertainty and our inability to find a correct approach to this truly dramatic issue. i was sorry to see mr berès arguing with mrs grossetête on matters of french internal policy. perhaps mr berès should remember to turn his back on president hollande and listen more to his group leader mr pittella, who has rightly pointed out that calais is perhaps not so different from ventimiglia. then perhaps hollande should remember to use the same weight in similar situations. today the problem is a transport problem. the problem is to find a way to ensure that the road hauliers and the inhabitants of that territory do not become the unjust victims of our political incapacity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the jungle of calais that i have seen is a wasteland where 1 000 unaccompanied minors live out of every 10 000 refugees. more than half of the children could join their families in england, as required by european law. both paris and london are violating it. only 20 minors were able to use it. i would like to tell you the story of raheemullah oryakhel, a 14-year-old afghan, who was run over by a truck in calais a few days ago. he wanted to join his brother in manchester legally. why so much misanthropy? they will tell you it's because the candidates for the élysée are chasing marine le pen, but there's a more substantial rejection. refugees account for only 0.2% of the european population, yet it is as if we are not able to add a single table to a dining room of millions. we mourn the children, but they're dead, only in photographs and possibly far away from us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, almost 10,000 men, women and children, plus an impressive number of unaccompanied minors, all camped out in inhumane conditions in what is the largest slum on our continent. but is this the europe of hospitality? a neighbouring country, the united kingdom, has already started work on building yet another wall of shame. is this the europe of solidarity? why is the problem of migration still being managed by blaming our neighbours to the south? why does it persist in its policy of militarizing borders, closing borders, building walls, setting up shame camps? if we limit ourselves to dealing with emergencies, there will always be tent cities in every european country and walls in neighbouring countries. we must know and remember that it is the lack of solidarity, the decisions not respected in the matter of relocation and the absence of integration and reception policies that make the migration phenomenon unmanageable. i therefore call on the member states to put into practice the highest principle of solidarity.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. it shows again the complex challenges related to the migration crisis we are called to tackle together. the transport sector has been affected by the migration crisis, that is a fact, and whilst the situation in calais has the highest visibility, it is also important to remember that this problem is not unique. it also affects ferries between greece and italy. we welcome the joint initiatives of the uk and france over the last year that have improved the security at the eurotunnel and provided practical solutions to the immigration pressure. the underlying problem that is really fuelling the situation is the role that organised criminals are playing in human trafficking, but allow me to clarify how the commission is addressing the humanitarian crisis in calais. let me stress one more time that preventing migrants from physically boarding goods vehicles is a national police competence. the commission has no authority in this matter. the commission has adopted, and helped france, with two emergency assistance grants of nearly eur nine million under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif). since 2014: eur 3.8 million for the setting up and running of the emergency day accommodation centre for irregular migrants in calais; eur 5.1 million in relation to the sanitation and humanitarian reception conditions to care for the irregular migrants present in calais, and with eur 1.68 million emergency assistance under isf—borders for strengthening security efforts and checks at the channel tunnel. in the long-term perspective up to 2020, france has been allocated nearly eur 430 million in the framework of the asylum, migration and integration fund and eur 177 million under the internal security fund for border management and police and security-related actions. within this financial framework, eur 85 million were earmarked for actions in the area of return of irregular immigration, improving detention conditions and returns management and an increased information campaign. let me also stress that eur 413.4 million were earmarked for the uk for the period covering 2014-2020. on the issue of minors in calais which was raised, indeed thousands of minors pass through calais. according to french law they are legally staying, they cannot be returned, and should obtain appropriate support from the french authorities. however, a significant number of unaccompanied minors do not want to be lodged in the available structures and continue living in the camp or leave shortly after having been taken in charge because they want to reach the united kingdom illegally. in essence, the french authorities cannot oblige unaccompanied minors to remain in the foyers. this issue is indeed very difficult; one of the main priorities there, as minors are prone to exploitation. when dealing with the migration crisis, the commission pursues a comprehensive approach at all levels, from tackling the root causes of migration to management of the flows at the borders. the commission is working to implement the european agenda on immigration. this will help member states to better manage all aspects of migration. but let me say i do share your frustration over the day-to-day reality. i was there myself, i met the drivers, i crossed the channel with them, and since then i am even more convinced that only a comprehensive and systematic approach can offer a sustainable solution; the commission is doing exactly that.
in writing. what is happening in calais is worrying. calais is perhaps the largest refugee camp in the eu, but i come from a region where an entire island has been turned into a camp, only we call it a reception centre. france is now a frontier country, as sicily has always been. it is now confronted with the need to distribute refugees to other municipalities in the country and with the reluctance of mayors and citizens, it is confronted with the need to redistribute refugees among eu countries and with the opposition of other states, it is experiencing the closure of the borders of its direct opponent, the united kingdom. these are not easy situations, but bulldozing and forced evictions are not the answer. it would be very serious to fall for the blackmail of the populists just because of the fear of an election date that is too close. the people, especially children, cannot be the victims not only of the wars they are fleeing but also of a political battle.
the s&d group has been represented. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a free interrail project for 18-year-olds is a beautiful and appealing one. we are investing in young people, we are investing in training for european citizenship by travelling through europe and in learning about our continent. we must also invest, with equal conviction, in measures to combat youth unemployment, which remains the first dramatic emergency. the popular group, i'm glad to say, has changed its mind. i say this because the proposal for free tickets was put forward and supported by the s&d group through a specific pilot project in the committee on transport, but the ppe group voted against it. in this context, it is a proposal which has important value, especially if it is combined with a more explicitly educational and knowledge-based dimension. what do you mean, "what"? first, substantial access must be guaranteed to all, with particular attention to 18-year-olds from the less well-off. secondly, erasmus+ remains the union's mobility and training programme and cannot be penalized in any way. we need adequate resources for both, as was announced this evening for the youth guarantee. thirdly, we must make the most of this pass in conjunction with other cultural and citizenship initiatives, such as the so-called e-card for european students, an idea of the committee on culture on which the commission services are already working, or in the context of the european year of cultural heritage, initiatives which encourage young people to discover our roots and our identity. the knowledge of our europe is the real antidote to populism, euroscepticism and nationalism.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs weber, hearing from you that president renzi is in favour of this initiative, frankly, for a moment, i thought i was against it. but i am disappointed because this is a laudable initiative which would like to revive the spirit of the european community that existed some 20 years ago, as you all remember. however, there are some criticisms. i have heard commissioner bulc express some concerns of her own which will certainly have to be carefully assessed. one of these, for example, is the fact that, as the commissioner herself has pointed out, there are already instruments such as eures and erasmus+ which are concerned with encouraging the mobility of young people, both in terms of work and education. the important thing is that we do not take away essential resources from these instruments which already exist, precisely because, considering all the 18 year olds in the european union, the budget is beginning to become quite significant as an impact. what are the other critical issues? the absence of meritocratic criteria and socioeconomic criteria contributes to making this initiative a bit populist. now, it seems odd that a populist initiative comes from you. then there are geographical areas, i think islands, that have different transportation needs. so the question of intermodality is linked to the fact that not all member states have the possibility of having access to interrail as an association. then, of course, money is given to a section of the railway industry, which in this way guarantees itself a certain income at the expense of other players in the market. so i'm all for the initiative, but let's work together to find ways to do it in a fairer and more equitable way without taking resources away from the tools that we already have.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in the meeting with the commissioners, in the presence of all the committees, i finally asked that the time has come for an integrated and horizontal policy for young people. we can't go on the spot. i recognize that this is a proposal which was, by the way, anticipated last year and then unfortunately rejected by my colleagues in the committee on transport, but i just wanted to remind you that we have made a proposal for some time, so i would like the commission to have a common table on these matters. dg connect and dg education have been working on this for some months now - i am also telling my colleague mr weber, who may not have known about it - and the committee on culture and education, together with the youth forum, has been asked to launch the e-card for european students. what does that mean? a card which has the value of a recognition of european student status after the age of 18. it's not a one-off. it also means having a sustainability of this opportunity, because it means making large-scale agreements with interrail, but also with other actors and not only with interrail, because we are interested not only in children going on holiday or traveling, but also in having the opportunity to access cultural and educational services and hospitality. that was the drawing. i regret that the commission has missed an opportunity to give a holistic answer, although i fully understand that this may be one of the tools that that paper was setting in motion.
the principle of 'roam like at home' has been a battle that this parliament has been fighting for some time. i also claim that my political group, the socialist and democratic group, has done this personally and with great force and consistency over the years, up to the final negotiations, as far as the package we approved last year is concerned. we appreciate that there is consistency with this proposal with respect to that vote by parliament, to that common position of parliament and the council. because, commissioner, i am convinced, as you are, that europe can be credible to our citizens if we are consistent in all our steps. this is a battle which certainly cannot be avoided, and we agree, by the proper application of the rules and by respect for the activities of operators. that's why we agree with the fair use clause that it must be achieved through a wholesale price reduction, since we're dealing with this lot. we believe that this should be done in a system that is as simple and user-friendly as possible. we appreciate that the proposal imposes neither volume nor time limits, because that would be inconsistent with our vote in parliament, and that it is based on the approach of a stable link with the country. we are pleased that the commission has taken this proposal forward, but we ask it to take into account the fact that consumers must be protected both from the point of view of data protection and in cases of disagreement with the telephone companies, because the procedures put in place by operators must be transparent, simple, efficient and non-invasive, not beyond what is necessary. the guiding principle of a single market must therefore also lead us to ensure that fair use policy is increasingly harmonised, that it is not different from country to country and that it does not provide for a list of different indicators in each european country, because this would set us back once again on the road to a genuine single market. i think that if we continue along this path, this magic word 'roam like at home' can serve the whole of europe, which must be felt by citizens as 'home'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by expressing the hope that this evening's debate will really help to give a boost to the negotiations on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which have been dragging on for too long. i am aware of the difficulties in the wording of the text, but we must look at the ultimate objective, namely to combat effectively the crimes against the interests of the union which, as we have said, transcend national borders and against which only an entity which is truly independent of the national authorities and the institutions of the union can achieve adequate results. an entity with primary competence in the investigation and prosecution of offences under the pif directive, including vat offences. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, a body specialised in fighting financial crimes against the interests of the union, without overlapping competences with eurojust and olaf, with adequate resources and with cooperation from the member states going beyond the logic of mere cooperation, is an ambitious project which must, however, be implemented in order to adequately protect the financial interests of the union.
in writing. the libe committee voted yesterday on the report on the fight against organised crime and corruption, which have a major impact on fraud against the financial interests of the european union. this report also reiterated the call for an independent european public prosecutor's office to investigate, prosecute and bring to justice perpetrators of crimes and stressed the need for a clear definition of its powers and procedures. we therefore hope that the pif directive will be adopted as soon as possible so that it is clear what type of offences the new prosecutor's office will be competent to deal with. the considerable capacity of criminal groups to establish international relations, to branch out in several member states and to give a seemingly legal form to their activities makes it necessary to emphasise once again the importance of extending, as provided for in article 86 tfeu, the powers of the european public prosecutor's office to the fight against other forms of serious crime, including mafia-type crime, which have a transnational dimension.
i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the balkans. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the financial year. in the meantime, the most serious thing is that it announces that the united kingdom will unilaterally renounce all rights deriving from european legislation, with very serious damage to non-british citizens living in the united kingdom. if the morning is bright, mrs may's relations with her european partners could not have started any worse. but we have to do our thing, what we have to do. we need to signal a change. i would like to reiterate my sincere appreciation of the state of the union report presented by president juncker in this house. we need signals that affect the lives of citizens. on the economic front, we must open a season of expansionary policy. national budgets for 2017 must be ambitious, otherwise europe will plunge back into recession. let us have a real industrial policy, because europe cannot be at the service of multinationals like caterpillar, which has no country, which blackmails workers and fires them after distributing dividends to shareholders, as is happening in these hours in belgium and france with alstom. it is fighting against tax evasion and fraud, which are the main enemies, not of us socialists, but of the whole of the european union. as regards immigration, when you play with fear you end up being overwhelmed by it, as the news from hungary shows. like a sorcerer's apprentice, orban's referendum from attempted plebiscite has become his defeat. the defeat of orban tells us to go ahead with the european asylum and immigration system and, as president juncker has reminded us, to put it back on the agenda and to go ahead with the partnership agreement with africa, on trade and subsidies. as far as trade is concerned, mr president-in-office, i agree that trade is a growth engine, but we must avoid dumping. international trade is fine but without dumping. we cannot reduce the living, working, social, environmental and health standards of the european citizens. we have to do this. progress has been made on ceta, we have and remain strongly sceptical about ttip and we confirm our no to granting china market economy status. with regard to syria, i consider it a crime against humanity. we cannot bomb hospitals and schools and kill doctors, young people, girls, children and innocent women without any reason. it is imperative that there be an immediate ceasefire and that humanitarian aid be allowed to enter immediately and unconditionally.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, migration policy is a strategic issue which, if handled superficially, can become a disruptive element in the process of european unification. the institutions must send a concrete signal of attention, attention to the lives of these desperate people but above all to the concerns of the european citizens, who clearly perceive the inability of their leaders to deal with such a phenomenon, creating fear. the solution must have three capabilities: courage, balance and speed. we expect the next summit to come to that at least. it will also have to respond to the challenges of trade policy. what is happening with ttip, ceta and even more with the esm to china shows us that it is no longer the time for decisions to be taken by a few in the interests of specific national and economic powers. a trade policy must be a common good and can be one if it benefits everyone, if it meets everyone's needs. we have often wondered where the council's strategic capacity is in these matters, which cannot overcome its internal divisions on strengthening trade defence instruments and protecting the 'made in'. where is the commission's ability to use the experience and negotiating power of a europe that is certainly not among the last economies and is certainly among the most advanced models of a market economy? today there is a danger that our legislation, our companies and our workers are being put at risk by our inability to manage global dynamics which are certainly not new or sudden, all of which is compounded by the fact that we have often worked without the necessary transparency. but when you fail in a task, you must have the humility to ask for cooperation, and this also applies to the european commission. institutional transparency is not a limitation but a strength for those who are able to have and share a project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite astonishing that the agreement with turkey can be described in this house as a working agreement. we are obviously assessing the operation of an agreement by how many people are not coming to the european union, without asking ourselves what happens to those people who, in all probability, would be entitled to have their right of asylum recognised. we do not ask ourselves what the erdogan government is doing on a daily basis with the repression in turkey and the slaughter of kurdish women and men. i think that this is a disgrace and we will not stop calling for funding for humanitarian corridors instead. let us now turn to trade policy. there were few of us in this house who said that ttip should be stopped, while there were many of us outside this house who said that ttip was dangerous. now, finally, the european commission will have to take note of this. what are we gonna do? we ratify cop21 and then we ratify treaties such as ceta which contain clauses on energy neutrality. i find that a very big contradiction. many studies now say that ceta would result in the loss of 200 000 jobs in europe alone. so we must stop ttip, we must stop ceta, because this trade policy is only harmful to the workers of the european union and beyond.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will talk about refugees again, but i do not know whether you are really looking for solutions. i wonder if you'll go to the root of the crisis, talking about the number one enemy in syria, isis, al qaeda, and imagining a relationship with moscow as an alternative to the mess that reigns in the us. on the one hand, the breakdown of dialogue, on the other, the wisdom of jimmy carter. crucial is a russian-american co-leadership, despite the very serious russian violence in aleppo. i don't even know how you're going to discuss the hungarian referendum. if orban convinces you that it's an invalid referendum, he'll make it valid with more walls. but i do know this: if we don't start organizing the living together with refugees, the exit will eat our brains, because the exit is fear, renunciation, nationalism, it's paying dictators to keep refugees, eritrea, sudan and now afghanistan. it is the end of the union, that the frontiers should be protected but better able to reopen them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i was very sorry to see that neither the council nor the commission spoke today about the mediterranean or italy. yet, two weeks ago europol stressed that italy is a preferential access for immigration, and, also two weeks ago, martin kobler, head of the un mission in libya, sounded the alarm, saying that 235 000 migrants are ready to leave libya for italy, and they will do so. these days we see numbers. monday was memorial day for the victims of immigration. on that day, the sea was calm and more than 6 000 people arrived in italy, and in the following hours 4 655 people were rescued at sea, more than 10 000 in two days. we have exceeded last year's level and italy is the only country in the opposite direction because, while in all other countries we see a decrease in arrivals, in italy there is an increase, we have exceeded 150 000 arrivals. i would have liked to have heard martin kobler's words in this chamber instead, because martin kobler has reminded us that human trafficking is a crime and as such must be fought, that legality must be restored. we need strong, united action. we cannot have a europe that only talks about quotas of refugees to be relocated, we cannot have a europe that only increases resources for rescue missions at sea. we need to develop crisis management proposals that are global. we need answers based on genuine solidarity at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult, even for an optimistic european like myself, to hope that something good can come from the next council, after the bitter disappointment in bratislava. more than just small steps, you were perfectly still. and to stand still after brexit, in my view, is to go backwards, dangerously backwards. we have seen a council that is not prepared to give united and united leadership in the face of problems. i would therefore like to remind the council of some of the figures which have already been mentioned by my colleague: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it's an extreme gesture of love from the parents. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. but above all, and i say this with great passion, where is the council? because the commission and parliament have done something, they have put programmes and projects on the table. i think we really have to take decisions and implement them, obliging the states to be bound by this spirit of solidarity, in the face of the problems which today affect italy and greece, have affected other countries, but may tomorrow manifest themselves in other forms for others and you will come to us to invoke solidarity. the relocation plan must be resumed because it is indispensable. you don't make the corridors if you don't make the plan, you don't make the hot spots, every part is tied up. and above all, we must take up the plan for africa, which was mentioned by mr juncker this morning, so that we can really try to get to the root of the problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is clear: syria, immigration, brexit and the recovery of the economy. the october council must give answers that are no longer elusive, otherwise europe loses and we are no longer credible. firstly, it is unacceptable that the very day of the anniversary of the massacre in lampedusa was chosen by orban for a completely illegitimate referendum. today we're faced with a small fact: 86 refugees have been recognised this year by hungary and over 150 000 refugees are being taken in by italy, which continues to save lives but fails to get people to go to other countries. without this, there will be no humanitarian corridors. it's all there. the response must be global, even after the new york summit. secondly, the european union must also be at the table on syria and we must revive the agreement and not give up, but we must make it clear to russia that this is a crime against humanity. we must not let diplomatic considerations prevail but call on everyone to take responsibility. just one joke about brexit: 10 000 students have recently signed up to continue their erasmus programme in the future. i have asked them to tell the british prime minister, mrs may, to make this the first negotiation after brexit, but with respect for the right of free movement.
in writing. i had the opportunity to highlight the challenges we will face in the coming months during the last plenary debate on the state of the union. the council meeting on 20 and 21 october will be a turning point. we will be called upon to give credible answers to our citizens by the end of the year. the priorities to focus on are security, immigration, jobs and savings protection. after the disappointing results of the last summit in bratislava, europe can no longer afford to make false steps. i call on the leaders of the member states: we must make the most of the opportunity of the next summit, abandon national selfishness, use the community method and put our europe back in motion!
in writing. ‒ the following is a non-legislative act ratifying the accession of peru to the hague convention on international child abduction. as this is a formally necessary act, as the convention does not provide for the possibility of direct approval by the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu countries, has introduced a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to this type of case. the text of the treaty contains two main points: the jurisdiction and enforceability of the laws of the state of residence of the child and the establishment of a mechanism for the immediate return of the child. the european union currently has exclusive external competence in this area, but the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. for this reason, member states should act on behalf of the union by prior authorisation from the council. the dzhambazki report, which i have supported today, therefore authorises austria and romania to accept peru's accession to the convention, allowing it to exert its effects in relations between the south american country and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return poses a serious threat to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention be ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to support by my vote the authorization for austria and romania to accept the accession of peru to the convention.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the authorisation given by the parliament to austria and romania to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. indeed, i believe the 1980 hague convention is an important and successful instrument aimed at settling cases of international child abduction through cooperation between states. the accession of peru needs the authorisation of the council due to the fact that austria and romania had not accepted peru yet. this resolution is important because many eu citizens are of peruvian origin and as a consequence the convention will help more european families deal with separations or divorces.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention introduces a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to guarantee the immediate return of the abducted child, protecting his or her health and fundamental rights. the accession of peru to the convention is a positive step in promoting the protection of children's rights at the global level and not just at the european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i consider the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction to be a vital instrument for the member states of the european union and beyond. the convention introduces a system which enables signatory states to cooperate effectively in order to find a concrete solution to cases of international child abduction. the problem arises mainly as a result of separation or divorce. in the case of mother and father coming from different states, the lack of cooperation between the states concerned could be exploited to date to address the issue of custody. the legal systems of the individual states tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality. the convention aims to resolve such situations at international level by providing that the courts and applicable laws are those of the state of residence of the child. a system is also provided to ensure the immediate return of the child. many european citizens have peruvian origins and therefore, thanks to the accession of the country in question, minors with links to the peruvian community will be adequately protected against abduction.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this act allows individual member states to ratify peru's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction (as the convention does not provide for the possibility of direct eu approval, this is a formal but necessary act).
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction established a system of cooperation between the authorities of each contracting state, which provides for the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or detained. as this is an international agreement which aims to protect and safeguard children in situations of legal uncertainty, it must be ratified by as many states as possible. since the european union has exclusive external competence in the matter of child abduction, i believe that the european institutions should authorize the member states to accept the participation of peru. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of the decision, in the hope that the 1980 hague convention between peru and all the eu member states to prevent the abduction of children will enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it is part of a system which allows contracting states to cooperate and find a solution to cases of international child abduction. the main problem is often the tendency of the legal systems of individual states to favour certain nationalities. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for each of them to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. the accession of peru to the convention should be welcomed. the rapporteur fully supports this position, given that many citizens of the european union are of peruvian origin. children with ties to the peruvian community will thus be protected against abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention. the hague convention is a very important instrument ratified by all the member states of the european union which allows them to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of peru to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is an important step in the protection of children, since many european citizens are of peruvian origin and can therefore be protected from abduction. in particular, the hague convention provides a framework for the protection of children's rights at international level, and is particularly effective in cases of conflict between different national laws. finally, i welcome the fact that this report can ensure the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or detained in any of the contracting states.
in writing. ‒ the eu already has exclusive external competence in the field of international child abduction, as confirmed by the court of justice. but for it to be applied, the member countries must act in unison. the council's authorization of austria and romania to accept peru's accession to the hague convention will have beneficial consequences for the whole european union by improving cooperation at community level to defend children's rights, such as the right to education and economic opportunities for a prosperous future. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which allows states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as the last necessary legislative step for the validity between the eu and peru of a text approved in 1980. i voted with conviction for greater protection for minors, who are increasingly victims of disputes and events that are unknown to them and that trample on their rights. it is therefore important that austria and romania accept, in the eu's interest, peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the abduction of children, a practice which is unfortunately increasingly common in multinational families facing separation. i fully support the intention of the convention to regulate such situations at international level by providing that the courts of the child's country of residence have jurisdiction, rather than the courts of the parent's country of nationality. this criterion is more protective of the child and more in line with his personal history, by linking the law applicable to the actual residence in a territory.
in writing. the proposal adopted today will enable the contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to resolve cases of international child abduction. in most cases the problem arises when a couple separates, specifically when the parents are from different states, giving rise to legal battles for custody of the children. the courts of the states concerned tend to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. for these reasons, the purpose of this report is to resolve the problems in the international arena and to ensure that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state of residence of the child, thus ensuring the possibility of an immediate return of the abducted child. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states, introducing a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for each of them to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. the convention aims to resolve these situations at international level. i therefore voted in favour of peru's accession to the convention, thus allowing minors linked to the peruvian community to benefit from protection throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i consider it necessary, in order to ensure that the minors concerned benefit from adequate legal protection within the eu, that parliament approves this proposal. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction introduced a system allowing contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. the main problem in these circumstances is the tendency of the legal systems of individual states to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality. following the accession of peru to the convention, a council decision is necessary to authorise the two member states which have not yet accepted such accession, namely austria and romania, to do so. this will allow the convention to have effect in relations between peru and the whole of the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction has finally been ratified by peru. the whole of europe is happy about this accession, not least because there are many european citizens of peruvian origin. the aspect of this report which gives me the greatest comfort is that it guarantees the rights of minors, especially when it comes to kidnappings.
in writing. ‒ the following is a non-legislative act ratifying the accession of kazakhstan to the hague convention on international child abduction. as this is a formally necessary act, since the convention does not provide for the possibility of direct approval by the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu countries, has introduced a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to this type of case. the text of the treaty contains two main points: the jurisdiction and enforceability of the laws of the state of residence of the child and the establishment of a mechanism for the immediate return of the child. the european union currently has exclusive external competence in this area but the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. for this reason, member states should act on behalf of the union by prior authorisation from the council. the dzhambazki report, which i supported today, authorizes some member states to accept kazakhstan's accession to the convention, allowing it to have its effects on relations between the asian country and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return poses a serious threat to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention be ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because the european union supports the accession of third states to that convention with the aim of increasing the number of members and consequently improving its effectiveness. moreover, to promote the rights of the child is an eu objective and the union is active at international level in order to improve the application of that convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention introduces a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to guarantee the immediate return of the abducted child, protecting his or her health and fundamental rights. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention is a positive step in promoting the protection of children's rights at the global level and not only at the european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe it is in the european union's interest to accept kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. following that accession, however, a council decision is required authorising member states, with the exception of denmark, which does not participate in the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which have already accepted the accession of kazakhstan, to accept that accession. the european commission, assisted by civil justice experts from the member states, has already assessed the functioning of the judicial system in kazakhstan. the country's willingness to implement the convention and its desire for its effective entry into force between the eu and kazakhstan are therefore noted. the system established by the hague convention will be even more effective with the involvement of a large number of countries. the aim of the proposal is to ensure that the minors concerned are properly protected at european level.
in writing. ‒ it is almost a pro-forma, non-legislative act allowing individual member states to ratify kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction established a system of cooperation between the authorities of each contracting state, which provides for the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or detained. as this is an international agreement which aims to protect and safeguard children in situations of legal uncertainty, it must be ratified by as many states as possible. as the european union has exclusive external competence in the field of child abduction, i believe that the european institutions should authorise the member states to accept the participation of kazakhstan. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of the decision, hoping for the early entry into force of the 1980 hague convention between kazakhstan and all eu member states to prevent the abduction of children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it is part of a system which allows contracting states to cooperate and find a solution to cases of international child abduction. the main problem is often the tendency of the legal systems of individual states to favour certain nationalities. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for each of them to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention should be welcomed. the commission has assessed, together with experts from the member states, the functioning of the judicial system in kazakhstan and considers the eu-kazakhstan agreement to be desirable.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of kazakhstan to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is an important step in protecting children, as it ensures their immediate return in the event of wrongful removal or retention. in particular, the hague convention provides a framework for the protection of children's rights at international level, and is particularly effective in cases of conflict between different national laws.
in writing. ‒ the eu already has exclusive external competence in the field of international child abduction, as confirmed by the court of justice. but for it to be implemented, the member countries must act in unison. the council's authorisation of certain member states to accept kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention will have beneficial consequences for the whole of the european union, thus improving cooperation at community level to defend children's rights, such as the right to education and economic opportunities for a prosperous future. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which allows states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states, in the interest of the european union, to accept the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because i believe it is important to reach an agreement on the jurisdiction and law applicable to child abduction involving the largest number of countries. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the european parliament should approve the proposal without amendments in order to ensure that the children concerned benefit from uniform legal protection. the press very often reports cases of international child abduction that occur as a result of separation or divorce. the commission has assessed, together with member states' experts in civil justice, the functioning of the judicial system of kazakhstan and the readiness of kazakhstan to implement the convention and considers that the entry into force of the convention between the european union and kazakhstan is desirable. i therefore believe that it is necessary to implement these agreements, including with other countries which have not yet joined this agreement, in order to improve international cooperation.
in writing. the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is of particular importance as it aims to protect children from international child abduction. the problem is the same as in other countries, i.e. in the case of separation of parents from different countries, where the lack of cooperation between the states tends to be exploited in order to obtain custody of the children. in order to prevent the courts from establishing a right of custody on the basis of the nationality of one of the parents in whose court the court is situated, the report under consideration aims to solve the problems arising from these circumstances by ensuring that jurisdiction is primarily attributed to the courts of the place of residence of the minor. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states, introducing a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for each of them to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. the convention aims to resolve these situations at international level. i therefore voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the convention, thus allowing the children concerned to benefit from protection throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ considering that the purpose of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is to create a system of cooperation between the central authorities appointed by each contracting state in order to allow the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or detained, and considering also that the european union has set among its objectives the promotion of the protection of the rights of the child, and has always been active at international level for the protection of the latter, i consider that, in order to pursue these primary purposes, i must accept the accession of kazakhstan, and therefore i feel obliged to express my opinion positively. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the following is a non-legislative act ratifying the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention on international child abduction. as this is a formally necessary act, as the convention does not provide for the possibility of direct approval by the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, ratified by all eu countries, has introduced a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to this type of case. the text of the treaty contains two main points: the jurisdiction and enforceability of the laws of the state of residence of the child and the establishment of a mechanism for the immediate return of the child. the european union currently has exclusive external competence in this area but the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. for this reason, member states should act on behalf of the union by prior authorisation from the council. the dzhambazki report, which i supported today, authorizes some member states to accept the accession of korea to the convention, allowing it to exert its effects in relations between the asian country and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return poses a serious threat to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention be ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of korea's accession to the community.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this resolution with the aim of getting the member states to accept korea as a contracting party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this decision will allow an increase in the number of states which will share that common legal framework upon child abduction.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention introduces a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to guarantee the immediate return of the abducted child, protecting his or her health and fundamental rights. the accession of the republic of korea to the convention is a positive step in promoting the protection of children's rights at global and not just european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction can have a positive impact both in the eu and in korea. the children concerned will finally be able to enjoy effective protection in every corner of europe. the european union currently has exclusive external competence in this area; this is confirmed by opinion 1/13 of the court of justice. the member states can therefore no longer act independently. as the report rightly points out, the real problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organizations. following the accession of the republic of korea to the convention, a decision by the council is necessary to authorise member states, with the exception of denmark, which does not participate in the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of the republic of korea, to accept that accession. in view of the large korean community in europe, acceptance of membership takes on a special value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-legislative act which allows member states to ratify the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention on international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction established a system of cooperation between the authorities of each contracting state, which provides for the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully transferred or detained. as this is an international agreement which aims to protect and safeguard children in situations of legal uncertainty, it must be ratified by as many states as possible. since the european union has exclusive external competence in the field of child abduction, i believe that the european institutions should authorise the member states to accept the participation of the republic of korea. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of the decision, in the hope that the 1980 hague convention between the republic of korea and all eu member states to prevent the abduction of children will enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it is part of a system which allows contracting states to cooperate and find a solution to cases of international child abduction. the main problem is often the tendency of the legal systems of individual states to favour certain nationalities. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for each of them to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. the accession of korea to the convention is to be welcomed. the commission has assessed, together with member states' experts, the functioning of the korean judicial system and considers the eu-korea agreement to be desirable.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. since the convention is only valid between the contracting states, this new accession represents a positive milestone in the field of child protection. in particular, the hague convention promotes the creation of a common legal framework on international child abduction, proving particularly effective in cases of conflict between different national laws.
in writing. ‒ the eu already has exclusive external competence in the field of international child abduction, as confirmed by the court of justice. but for it to be implemented, the member countries must act in unison. the council's authorisation of certain member states to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention will have beneficial consequences for the whole of the european union, thus improving cooperation at community level to defend the rights of children, such as the right to education and economic opportunities for a prosperous future. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which allows states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as well as in the two previous cases of kazakhstan and peru, because of the need to find concrete solutions to protect the minor children of separated spouses from different states.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a key instrument that has been ratified by all eu member states, introducing a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and for each of them to entrust the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is situated. the convention aims to resolve these situations at international level. i therefore voted in favour of the accession of the republic of korea to the convention, thus allowing minors linked to the korean community to benefit from protection throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ whereas the purpose of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is to establish a system of cooperation between the central authorities designated by each contracting state in such a way as to enable the immediate return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained; whereas the european union has set as one of its objectives the promotion of the protection of the rights of the child and has always been active at international level in the protection of the rights of the child; i believe that in order to pursue these overriding objectives, i must accept the accession of the republic of korea and therefore feel obliged to express my support. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction introduced a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. the main problem in these circumstances is the tendency of the legal systems of individual states to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at the international level by providing that the courts and laws of the state of residence of the child are the competent courts and laws of the state of residence of the child. i believe it is important to ensure that the children concerned are afforded adequate legal protection within and outside the eu. this report authorises the member states (with the exception of denmark, which does not participate in the union's policies on civil justice, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of the republic of korea) to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention. this will allow the convention to have effect in relations between the republic of korea and the whole of the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the following motion for a resolution, which concerns food and food security in the world, touches on many fundamental and important points. among these, the following should be highlighted: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid scheme, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the establishment of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food aid fund, the setting up of a european food fund, the setting up of a european food fund, the setting up of a european food fund, the setting up of a european food fund, the european food aid fund, the european food aid fund, the european agriculture fund, etc. i have voted in favour of the report because i consider the above to be of fundamental importance.
in writing. ‒ the second of the sustainable development goals and its associated targets aims to end hunger and malnutrition in the world by 2030, by increasing the productivity of smallholder farmers, and by creating sustainable food systems that are resilient to climate change. the joint motion for a resolution which i have supported today stresses the importance of really coordinated and faster action between governmental, non-governmental and private actors at global, national and local levels to tackle malnutrition and hunger. the european union must mobilise, together with the governments of developing countries, to launch immediate long-term financial investments in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture. there is a need to reinvest in local food production, small-scale food producers and agro-ecological practices, including the establishment of social protection schemes to ensure access to nutritious food for all on an ongoing basis. eu action must be aligned with the principle of policy coherence for development and its member states must commit themselves not to support gmo crops in fulfilling their obligations on world food and food security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which analyses the next steps towards achieving the eu's global objectives and commitments on food and food security in the world.
in writing. ‒ the right to food is recognised as an inalienable right for all people, regardless of where they live. the fight against malnutrition is a key commitment of the european union towards the achievement of the global goals on sustainable development by 2030. over 159 million children are malnourished. i support this resolution of the european parliament which is being proposed as a tool for sustainable development that can promote food security for the 795 million people who do not have enough food to lead a healthy and active life. this figure highlights the need to address the root of the problem, by supporting the development of rural areas, where malnutrition rates are highest, in the first place. the need is to organise measures to support the agricultural sector, starting with the protection of small and very small farmers, with the aim of increasing their productivity. these interventions are essential to achieve sustainable and climate-resilient agricultural development, capable of feeding an expected global population of 8.5 billion people by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the next necessary steps towards attaining global goals on nutrition and food security because i strongly believe the eu must be better committed to fighting against hunger and poverty in the world. in particular, this resolution reaffirms the importance of common actions addressing malnutrition in order to fulfil the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ it is important that coordinated and faster action is taken by governmental, non-governmental and private development actors at global, national and local levels to tackle malnutrition and end hunger. long-term financial investments in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture must be made. investments are also needed to reduce the number of children with stunted growth and, above all, it is crucial that these investments directly address the immediate causes of child malnutrition. in addition to stunting, other manifestations of malnutrition must be addressed by health policies and systems. humanitarian and development interventions must be combined. specific indicators for the implementation of the eu action plan need to be developed and the collection of comprehensive and disaggregated data on food and related issues needs to be improved in order to better plan future actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution today because i believe it is our duty to support measures to put an end to the longstanding problem of hunger and malnutrition in the world. the main objective of the motion for a resolution is to ensure opportunities and thus increase the productivity of small farmers, creating sustainable food systems that are resilient to climate change. by 2030, the food needs of a projected global population of 8.5 billion people must be met, while protecting the environment, biodiversity and the interests of smallholder farmers. in 2012, the world health organization approved major food targets to be met by 2025. all in all, a 40% reduction in the number of children under five years of age with stunted growth and a 30% reduction in cases of low birth weight. today, one third of the food produced worldwide, a whopping 1.3 billion tons, is wasted. in this context, it is appropriate to implement the implementation of the european policies developed by the commission's action plan on nutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the means to be adopted in order to achieve the eu's global objectives and commitments on food and food security in the world. i particularly appreciated the references to the fight against land grabbing, among others; attention to small producers and family farms; the human right to food and the human right to water; access to natural resources; the no to gmos.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned that, despite all efforts, the situation of malnutrition in the world remains at dramatically high levels. the most alarming figure is that, as of today, 159 million children are malnourished and 50 million children suffer from rickets. malnutrition has very serious consequences on the development of children and aggravates the spiral of poverty in which they live. proper nutrition of infants and children, especially during the first two years of life, can increase their chances of survival and is essential for good growth and development. according to fao, although the trend in malnutrition is down, the main cause of malnutrition - poverty - must be addressed. this can be done through a coordinated effort, by increasing the production of small farmers, by intervening in education, by implementing sustainable food chains, by improving governance, by defending women's rights, by improving sanitation and by stimulating microcredit. i voted in favour of the resolution, because i believe that all of us, the representatives of the european institutions, the member states, the international community and the governments of the developing countries, must do our utmost to ensure that the causes of malnutrition are eradicated.
in writing. ‒ having regard to all the developments that have taken place in relation to the right to food as an integral part of the right to an adequate standard of living. i thought i would vote in favour of the measure, considering that the sustainable development goal and its associated targets aim to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030. by ensuring opportunities and increasing productivity for smallholder farmers, creating sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems that can feed an expected global population of 8.5 billion people, while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of smallholder farmers. although progress has been made in reducing malnutrition, it is too slow and irregular, and 795 million people worldwide do not have enough food to lead a normal, active life. it called on the commission and the member states to pay attention to policy coherence for development in their activities and, consequently, to consider the consequences of their policies on trade, agriculture, energy and global food security. it stresses the importance of supporting small farmers and women farmers as food producers for nutrition.
in writing. ‒ food is the foundation of our well-being and is an integral part of a humanity that wants to progress. therefore, on behalf of that, i am against the proposal. i deplore the many amendments tabled by my colleagues which have turned a proposal with innumerable repercussions into a banal demonization of free trade. the right to food is a pillar of the right to an adequate standard of living, so ending hunger and malnutrition, as well-targeted by the 2030 agenda, involves addressing systemic problems and not planning nutritional strategies based on caloric intake and prescription of medical remedies. it is therefore necessary to build through political accountability and effective governance faster action among the actors involved through long-term investments focused on food security and proper nutrition with the awareness that 1.3 billion tons of food (i.e. one third of production) is wasted. i would remind you that the union should be more sensitive to the problem of malnutrition, as more and more families, made destitute by the crisis, are forced to buy products that are almost out of date and often of dubious origin. to assert our leading edge on food, we must solve as soon as possible the real problems facing our citizens every day.
in writing. ‒ eradicating hunger and malnutrition is a long-term commitment and a priority for the european union. despite the efforts and progress made in recent years, the journey is still too slow and 795 million people still do not have adequate access to food and one in three people are undernourished. i voted in favour of this resolution because, also in view of the second un food summit, the european parliament insists on the need for greater coordination between all the eu instruments and actors (national, local, governmental, non-governmental, private, scientific and industrial research) in this field. member states need to step up their commitments to global food security, with a focus on sustainable agriculture and local food production, which must be given priority in taking action against malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to reaffirm the eu's commitment to food security in the world, in line with the achievement of the sustainable development goals. in particular, the second objective aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030 through a bottom-up approach that sees small farmers as the main private sector actors in agriculture, food security and nutrition. coordinated action between governmental, non-governmental and private actors at global, national and local levels will ensure secure access to land and management of its resources for smallholders and sustainable and climate resilient food systems, while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of smallholders. such synergy is needed to address the root causes of hunger and malnutrition, not just its visible effects, but also the systemic problems that cause inadequate nutrition in all its forms. these include export-based agricultural production at the expense of local biodiversity, and trade agreements that deprive local people of access to and management of the productive resources essential to their livelihoods.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this european parliament motion for a resolution on the next steps towards achieving the eu's global objectives and commitments on food and food security in the world. the european union is also calling on the developing countries to make a significant contribution to the development of the food and agriculture sector. furthermore, the same actors are urged to enhance food security and nutrition through better governance and accountability that are rights-based and take into account, on the one hand, sustainable agriculture, access to and use of natural resources, water, sanitation and hygiene, and, on the other hand, the creation and expansion of inclusive rights-based social safety nets, in particular for the most vulnerable and marginalised groups.
in writing. ‒ the 2030 sustainable development goals are a milestone that europe cannot afford to miss, because providing more investment in food, ensuring the adequate development and strengthening of social safety nets and supporting climate-resilient agriculture could mean saving 7 million children from the threats of malnutrition and hunger by 2025. the stakes are too high. i therefore share mrs mcavan's request to the commission to call for a consolidation of the current financial commitments and to promote initiatives and strategies to stem the alarming numbers of malnutrition and starvation that we are unfortunately recording.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the next steps towards achieving the global targets and eu commitments on food and food security in the world because i believe that the objective of ending malnutrition in the world by 2030 can no longer be postponed. despite the progress made in reducing malnutrition, however, the 800 million undernourished people in the world are still too many. the objective of reducing malnutrition among young children by 40% by 2025 should be a non-delayed target, considering that malnutrition and poor nutrition are the main risk factors for the global burden of disease. i strongly shared the need for coordinated and faster action between governmental and non-governmental actors at all levels, greater coordination between agricultural, trade and development policies and the leadership action that the european commission, the world's largest donor, should take in the field of food security and nutrition by increasing the resources already committed with additional appropriations to be allocated to specific food interventions to make it possible to achieve the who food targets and the world development goals (wdds), within a truly integrated strategy.
in writing. i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments for food and food security in the world. today, despite efforts to reduce malnutrition, according to fao statistics, some 122 million europeans are at risk of poverty, and over 100 million tonnes of food are wasted every year in the eu - a figure that could solve the world's hunger problem. each tonne of food waste avoided could also contribute to saving the equivalent of 4.2 tonnes of co2, reducing the use of natural resources. i believe it is a priority to put an end to this problem by fighting food waste and supporting the poorest people. for example, within the new circular economy package, which aims to transform the economy from linear to circular, i.e. the new vision of waste as a resource, the fight against food waste can play a central role. nutritional security is one of the essential prerequisites for ensuring sustainable growth in our communities and the world at large, and that is why we must all commit ourselves to contributing to the achievement of these goals.
in writing. ‒ the right to food is one of the pillars of the 1948 universal declaration of human rights. the right to food is a complex right which can only be fully realised when poverty and inequality are drastically reduced. significant progress has been made in reducing malnutrition, but progress is still too uncertain and irregular. a clear response is needed, including the guarantee and protection of access to land, without which there can be no right to food. the european union, given its position on the international scene, must necessarily adopt the means at its disposal to eradicate the problem of malnutrition, which unfortunately still exists. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the achievement of sustainable development goal 2 (sdg2), which aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, must be a priority for the european union and, in particular, for the commission. more than 200 million children are currently suffering from malnutrition. malnutrition has a devastating impact on their health and development. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new agricultural policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new agricultural policy. equally important is the development of social safety nets. the commission, the council, the member states and the international community, as well as the governments of developing countries, must commit themselves immediately to combating all forms of malnutrition by mobilising the necessary long-term financial investment. through better and accountable governance, systematic, rights-based policies on food and nutrition that take into account gender, access to natural resources, water, sanitation and hygiene, and at the same time provide for inclusive social safety nets, in particular for the most vulnerable and marginalised groups, need to be ensured.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the next steps towards achieving the eu's global objectives and commitments on food and food security in the world. sustainable development goal 2 and its associated targets aim to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the disease, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the disease, including through the development of a european health and safety network.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution setting out the objectives that the eu will have to achieve and the instruments that it can use to deliver on its global commitments on food security in the world. the eu has committed to reducing backwardness by at least 7 million by 2025 and to allocate eur 3,5 billion over the period 2014-2020. progress has been made in reducing malnutrition, but it is still too slow and uneven. today, 795 million people worldwide do not have enough food to lead a normal, active life, and one in three people suffer from some form of malnutrition. we need to do more. this report calls for the support of small farmers and local women farmers to be placed at the heart of action to combat malnutrition, so that local production is given priority. we are talking about sustainable agricultural development policies with a focus on the environment. all subjects that have found my favor.
in writing. ‒ it is of paramount importance that the eu and all its member states detect and prosecute fraud affecting the union's financial interests in an effective and deterrent manner, thereby protecting the taxpayers of all member states. the resolution therefore reaffirms parliament's support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union and reducing the fragmentation of national action in this area. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office. pursuant to article 86 tfeu, the council, by means of regulations adopted in accordance with a special legislative procedure, may establish a european public prosecutor's office, based on eurojust, to combat criminal offences, such as fraud, which affect the financial interests of the union. the text adopted today reaffirms parliament's support for the establishment of this instrument and calls on the council to establish clear and unambiguous powers and procedures for it, reopening the debate on the consolidated text. in particular, it is necessary to clarify the powers of the european public prosecutor's office and national public prosecutors' offices in criminal matters in cases of multiple and mixed offences and to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office itself has adequate investigative measures to conduct its own investigations. the regulation should also provide for additional rights of defence for suspects, such as the right to legal aid at the expense of the state, the right of access to investigation documents, the right to information and the right to present evidence and to request the eppo to collect evidence on behalf of the suspect.
in writing. - we do not need a "european prosecutor". it is folly to think that the eu can control the legal and judicial systems of the member states. this is yet another attempt by the eu to concentrate these functions on itself, in order to protect the interests of the strong powers. i am therefore absolutely opposed to this clearly biased report and therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the establishment of an efficient and independent european public prosecutor’s office to better protect the eu budget and fight against fraud. moreover, i believe the council should provide a set of clear competences to eppo including investigation capacities. last but not least, i think eppo and eurojust should operate in the same location in order to facilitate the information exchange.
in writing. ‒ parliament is in favour of the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national interventions and to strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. efforts must be made to ensure the clarity and effectiveness of the european public prosecutor's office and to clarify its powers, especially in criminal proceedings, and those of national public prosecutors in cases of multiple and mixed offences. the european public prosecutor's office should be provided with appropriate investigative measures to conduct its investigations. the eppo should be able to exercise its powers of investigation and prosecution in accordance with the applicable national law. the european parliament and the council shall be informed of the progress of the work of the eppo. the role of eurojust is of key importance, in particular in improving judicial cooperation and coordinating the competent judicial authorities of the member states and in supporting investigations involving third countries. the relationship between eurojust and the eppo should therefore be clarified and, for the two bodies to cooperate effectively, they should operate under one roof.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust today because i consider it of fundamental importance for the eu to identify and prosecute, in a concrete and effective manner, fraud committed against european finances. i therefore believe it is right to take all appropriate action to protect the taxpayers of the member states who actively contribute to the eu budget. eurojust has fostered coordination and cooperation between the various national authorities responsible for investigations and has also facilitated the building of a relationship of trust between the various european legal systems and traditions. eurojust's work has also led to significant improvements in crossborder criminal proceedings. the european public prosecutor's office should have more appropriate investigative measures in place to ensure that its investigations are carried out effectively. however, it is necessary that member states take investigative measures on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition, as provided for in directive 2014/41/eu on the european criminal investigation order. in order to organise efficiently the valuable cooperation and exchange of information between the eppo and eurojust, the two bodies should operate under the same direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution setting out parliament's position on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. the text of the resolution introduces an independent european prosecutor, free from any political influence, who is also responsible for vat fraud. it is required that jurisdiction be clear and defined (including vis-à-vis olaf and eurojust) and that actions for the protection of the financial interests of the union may be brought before the court of justice. the independence and functionality of this new body is required, also to avoid creating an unnecessary institution; the european ombudsman is responsible for the implementation of the european ombudsman's mandate.
in writing. ‒ whereas article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that in order to combat crimes affecting the financial interests of the union, the council, acting by means of regulations in accordance with a special legislative procedure, may establish a european public prosecutor's office, starting from eurojust, subject to the approval of the european parliament; whereas it is important that the eu and all its member states detect and prosecute fraud affecting the financial interests of the union in an effective and dissuasive manner, thereby protecting the taxpayers of all member states contributing to the union budget; cross-border crime has increased over the last decade and is committed by highly mobile and flexible groups operating in multiple jurisdictions and criminal sectors. the measure calls on the council to consider various aspects which directly involve the european union in the safeguarding and protection of its member states. i have decided to vote in favour of the document because of the various considerations which have been requested.
in writing. ‒ european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, negative opinion on a resolution which seeks to focus and harmonise areas that are as sensitive as they are important for the protection, perhaps, of the union's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution presented, as i am deeply convinced of the urgency of clarifying the tasks and the relationship between the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the european ombudsman is a tool to reduce the current fragmentation of national action to combat fraud affecting financial interests. in line with the approved text, i consider it appropriate to establish a clear and unambiguous set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, on the basis of the proposal for a directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law (pif directive). the council is urged to intensify its efforts to reach agreement on the pif directive, so that vat is included in its scope, and consequently in that of the procurement. eurojust is a body which facilitates coordination and cooperation between national authorities responsible for criminal investigations and prosecutions in cases involving several states. the full and definite establishment of eurojust will allow for greater mutual trust between countries and a transcendence of their systemic differences. in the light of the above, it is essential to clarify the relationship between the two instruments and their respective costs and benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, while reiterating support for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office which would help to reduce the current fragmentation in this area, it is necessary to establish in a clear and unambiguous way the powers and procedures of its competence in order to make it truly effective and independent. it is also important that a thorough cost-benefit analysis of the structure is carried out in order to carefully assess its implications for the european budget, also clarifying the relationship between eurojust and the eppo, with particular attention to the implications of the collegial structure, as well as the relationship of the eppo with olaf, in order to differentiate their roles in financial matters.
in writing. ‒ article 86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that in order to combat crimes affecting the financial interests of the union, the council may establish a european public prosecutor's office from within the eu agency for criminal justice cooperation (eurojust), subject to the approval of the european parliament. in this way, the eu and its member states can effectively and deterrently identify and prosecute fraud affecting the union's financial interests, while protecting european citizens as taxpayers to the union budget. in voting in favour of this resolution i wanted to support the actions identified to reduce the current fragmentation of national anti-fraud interventions in the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. furthermore, i believe it is particularly important to ensure the independence of the european public prosecutor's office, in order to avoid cases of disagreement between the european public prosecutor's office and national public prosecutors' offices on the question of jurisdiction, thus depriving the decisions of the public prosecutor's office of operational effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud in the union is one of the pillars that europe must support with the utmost commitment and that also translates concretely into the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, the challenge to so-called tax havens, the attempts to curb the dark areas, often a basin of illegality and crime. the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as part of the union's response to the crisis. more control and coordinated and cooperative work is needed to improve the exchange of information between individual countries. we need to be able to monitor irregularities more accurately and more rapidly and we need clear and decisive action as opposed to crossborder criminal prosecution. i therefore share the hope that a european public prosecutor's office will be set up as soon as possible, which, in cooperation with eurojust, will have full jurisdiction over financial crimes and will be able to overcome the fragmentation of national operations in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. finally, considerable progress has been made in the european public prosecutor's office. the fight against financial fraud is one of the priorities, and today it has the appropriate instruments to achieve it fully. the main element is the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office which will make a significant contribution to protecting european taxpayers' money and thus facilitating the recovery of any funds that may have been misappropriated. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office will also ensure that the prevention and prosecution of these types of crime is uniform throughout europe. eurojust and the eppo are invited to work together to facilitate cooperation and exchange of information, including in the application of the pif directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. i think it is important that the eu and all its member states detect and effectively prosecute fraud affecting the financial interests of the union. the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office will help to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement actions to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. eurojust has facilitated coordination and cooperation between national authorities responsible for criminal investigations and prosecutions in cases involving more than one member state and has also helped to build mutual trust and to overcome the diversity of legal systems and traditions in the european union.
in writing. ‒ according to a recent study, as much as €159.5 billion in value added tax (vat) revenue was lost in the eu in 2014. it is essential that the eu and the member states detect and effectively prosecute fraud affecting the union's financial interests, thereby protecting all taxpayers. this is always true, but even more so in a time of financial difficulties and growing distrust of the institutions, such as the one we are going through. i therefore join the call to the council in this resolution to commit itself to promoting the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the council must also ensure that clear and unambiguous competences and procedures are defined on the basis of the proposal for a pif directive, including vat in its scope. at the same time, it will be necessary to ensure the protection of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons and to avoid any negative effects of the so-called 'national link'. the council is proceeding extremely slowly. i hope that this report will serve as an incentive to speed up the legislative process and that the indications expressed by parliament, which will have to give its consent to the final text, will be transposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the proposal reiterates parliament's support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement actions aimed at protecting the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the council is also invited to establish a clear and unambiguous indication of the powers of the said prosecutor's office, by assigning it appropriate investigative measures to conduct its own investigations and by ensuring adequate judicial review of the decisions taken by it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in the light of the situation at the ilva steelworks in taranto, with accidents at work being a regular occurrence and the incidence of cancer and respiratory diseases reaching dramatic levels among the workers and citizens who also live in the surrounding areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. why not encourage research and innovation or, where appropriate, the transformation of the activity? what is the point of saving jobs if the same work leads to death and disease? who benefits from a kind of political engineering that does not care about the dignity of human life? a true circular economy, with the use of secondary raw materials and energy-efficient production facilities, can be the revolution needed to safeguard employment levels, while ensuring respect for the environment and the protection of workers. where there is a clear incompatibility with the lives of workers and citizens, there must be an obligation to reclaim and convert the area which can combine employment and health, production and the environment. but this view is not taken into account. that's why i had to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out industrial policy objectives at european level for the coming years, in response to redundancies and restructuring by companies in key sectors of european industry. however, there is not enough emphasis on important issues such as the circular economy, energy efficiency in manufacturing plants, respect for the environment and protection of workers. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on 2 september 2016, caterpillar holding announced a major global restructuring plan that will involve the closure of several plants in europe. the gosselies plant has already closed its doors, leaving 2 500 people at home and putting another 4 000 jobs in the industry at risk. similar cases are likely to occur following the feared closure of alstom plants in italy and spain. these are worrying developments, but they make clear the need for a european policy of reindustrialisation, the subject of a resolution which i have supported in parliament today. firstly, measures to support workers are needed to help the regions affected by the closures to cope with this difficult economic and social situation. the new eu industrial policy should be based on ambitious and clear energy efficiency, resource and climate objectives, establishing a life-cycle and circular economy approach. public action must be shifted from supporting supply to concerted policies stimulating demand, including new tax measures and wage-raising guarantees. the restructuring of large european manufacturing firms, with the emergence of economic operators with sufficient critical mass, will make it possible to face international competition.
in writing. ‒ despite some interesting points, the text does not present any solutions that can be effectively used by european industry, which is experiencing a serious period of crisis. the recipe for the revival of our industry is not 'more europe', as this text would have us believe. we need new policies that really support the efforts of our territories. for these reasons i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe our industry has to face several challenges, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality employment. the first challenge needs clear european support for our workers who are dealing with their dismissals. that is the reason why i voted yes to this resolution. especially concerning the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, this resolution expressed the eu’s solidarity to all their workers, showing the social face of our union. i stand for a europe closer to its workers.
in writing. ‒ industry has played a key role in the process of european integration, as well as in promoting employment and redistributing wealth among citizens. we cannot stand by and watch the destruction of european industry. a new industrial strategy at union level is needed. in view of the new cases under consideration, the commission must rapidly mobilise all available funds, in particular the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, to ensure the early reintegration into employment of the redundant workers at the caterpillar plant in gosselies and alstom and of all their subcontractors and, where appropriate, to provide them with adequate support to acquire new skills; but that's not enough. the approach to the industrial sector must be transformed into an approach of extraordinary support and development, which may also be in contradiction with the european strategies used so far. the safeguarding of employment and production in the territory takes priority over any political or commercial agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today, calling for measures to support the workers of caterpillar and alstom and to help the regions concerned to cope with this difficult economic and social situation. i call on the commission to develop, in conjunction with the member states, a union strategy for a coherent and comprehensive industrial policy aimed at reindustrialising europe. this new industrial policy strategy should facilitate investment in new technologies and innovation, improve market conditions both in the internal and international markets, expand access to finance and support investment in human capital and skills. i also think that the commission and the european investment bank should focus on the regions most affected by deindustrialisation and accelerate support for projects in those regions. finally, i urge the commission to work with the various industrial sectors to ensure the best possible use of the european structural and investment funds, in particular the european regional development fund (erdf), to support research and development projects at regional level.
in writing. ‒ european industry has a high added value. unfortunately, this vital and strategic sector is facing fierce global competition from countries that export cheaper products to the european market through an aggressive and rapidly expanding policy on all continents, often benefiting from the political and financial support of their governments. since the resolution is not ambitious and does not propose any concrete solutions, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular articles 9, 151, 152, 153 (1) and (2) and 173 thereof, and to the various communications received from the various institutions and offices, whereas there is now an absolute need for coherence between the different eu policies in order to define a genuine industrial policy, particularly in the light of the caterpillar and alstom cases; whereas caterpillar holding has announced a worldwide restructuring plan, which has resulted in the closure of the gosselies site, the laying-off of 2 500 direct employees and the endangerment of some 4 000 jobs; i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and that the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ with this vote i wish to express my full sympathy with the pain of those who have suddenly seen their stability falter, and i therefore strongly support the need for an industrial policy for the eu. this is an urgency that has emerged over decades and requires the building of a resilient and future-oriented european industry, capable of transitioning towards sustainability while maintaining its identity as a social market economy through quality employment. in this context, common trade and competition policies must be implemented to cope with globalisation and its effects. in this connection, it should be remembered that although the union has opened up to competitors from third countries, they have, on the contrary, introduced barriers to our companies by discriminating against them. so they have been aggressively penetrating our markets, partly thanks to the support of their own countries, while we have remained passive. what can be done to boost the competitiveness of european industry is a question that is no longer relevant because the time for action has come. therefore, an intelligent specialisation agenda must be set and economic conversion and r & d studies prioritised in areas where the eu can be a leader, bearing in mind that those who do not adapt will eventually become extinct.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the resolution underlines that although many sectors of the eu economy are largely open to competitors from third countries, these countries have introduced several barriers that discriminate against european companies and also third country competitors, in particular china, are expanding rapidly and aggressively in europe: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission should therefore define a long-term trade policy for the union which protects workers, is consistent with its industrial objectives and avoids new relocations and further deindustrialisation.
in writing. ‒ on 2 september, caterpillar announced a major and wild restructuring plan affecting the gosselies production site in belgium, the closure of which is expected to result in the dismissal of 2,500 direct workers, while putting the jobs of some 4,000 washing workers in the industry at risk. this is just another plan for restructuring the firm, which ends up burdening the workers, who have always been the weak link in the chain. this is an unacceptable situation which calls into question the absence of a genuine european reindustrialisation policy. a new eu industrial policy, based on clear objectives and indicators, making the best use of available resources, also in line with the principles of the circular economy. a policy which includes a smart mix of measures affecting both supply and demand, capable of relocating the economy within the continent and preventing continued flight. an industrial plan that aims to invest in creativity, skills, innovation and sustainable technologies, making the most of, rather than continuing to squander, the human capital that europe is rich in.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report which contains no criticism of the failing industrial policies developed by the commission; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal relocation of certain multinationals.
in writing. ‒ the s&d group played a decisive role in drawing up parliament's position on the case of the many redundancies announced by the multinationals caterpillar and alstom. the text we have voted on is an important opportunity to reiterate our call on the commission to introduce urgently concrete measures to curb the aggressive competition affecting the european industrial sector. europe must first find a regulatory solution so that workers are involved and informed in the fundamental choices affecting enterprises: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. and of course everything must be done to prevent the perverse effects of unfair competition which european production has experienced in recent years. the revision of competition policy and the rules on state aid, more public intervention to safeguard social and regional cohesion, the modernisation of trade defence mechanisms and the fight against dumping are proposals which will characterise our commitment as members of parliament in all the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent cases of caterpillar and alstom because of the importance of these large companies for european industry faced with fierce global competition from countries exporting cheaper products to the european market through an aggressive and rapidly expanding policy on all continents. the european union needs foreign investment and multinationals like the ones mentioned above, but it must be clear that in the presence of tax benefits, financial support from the governments of the countries where they have established their sites, in the event of restructuring or withdrawal from the territory these multinationals must behave accordingly. firstly, by undertaking to look for other buyers capable of taking over and developing the human capital represented by the workers and of rehabilitating the production site in such a way that it can be put back on the market without additional costs. otherwise, the restructuring would have a negative impact far beyond the mere undertaking concerned and on the economic and social fabric in the territories of the member states concerned. i therefore hope that the commission will consult the social partners on the effectiveness of legislation on collective redundancies.
in writing. after the severe crisis, it was necessary to start again with investments and actions to support the eu's economic recovery and sustainable growth. globalisation forces us to focus on innovation and on increasing the competitiveness of our industrial system. the proposal adopted today calls on the commission and the member states to subsidize public investment in research and development and technology, subject to compliance with environmental and health standards, in order to promote skills and know-how, which is a key prerequisite for increasing the competitiveness and sustainability of strategic sectors. we must therefore take action to find solutions to protect the jobs at risk by all available means, to ensure transparency in financial transfers and to safeguard the competitiveness of our companies on the global scene.
in writing. ‒ i thought it my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the european market is facing fierce global competition which is forcing the union to improve and make its instruments more responsive, taking into account the need to safeguard industrial employment and to avoid the occurrence of phenomena such as relocation and deindustrialization. i feel that i must speak positively, since coherence is needed between the various eu policies in order to create a genuine industrial policy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids in the eu, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids in the eu. the resolution stresses the need to stimulate the real economy through a reindustrialisation policy which aligns trade policy with the energy transaction and sustainability, creating quality jobs and, in this case, promoting and intensifying anti-competitive measures in relation to the situation of caterpillar and alstom.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, we are here today to comment on the caterpillar affair, a sad situation for the fate of workers and their families, a situation that becomes extremely paradoxical if we consider that in recent years the company has increased by 50% the dividend payments to its shareholders. this is not the first case to affect the european industrial sector, which has seen its share of direct employment fall steadily since 2000, and i have the impression that it is not the last. i wonder what future there is for european industry and for europe as a whole when a number of factors mean that there is no way out of the dark tunnel we have entered. i am referring to the austerity measures that are the rule and prevent all kinds of public investment, blocking growth and contracting demand, to wages that have been blocked in relation to productivity growth, to the progressive thinning of those social protections which have always been a source of pride and distinction for the european continent, to non-strategic relocations within the eu, linked to anything but an effective and valid industrial policy project. this is compounded by the fact that the european industrial sector is being undermined by: the euro.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. a humanitarian tragedy, a country reduced to a pile of rubble. today the bombing by russian planes and assad's forces continues unabated, without respect for any rules, if there ever is or can be an ethic of war. this is happening a few kilometers from here, off the coast of cyprus and not far from the greek islands, and then there is someone who is surprised that refugees are coming, that refugees are coming. but if there's a war, if there are millions of dead! there are bombings on schools, on hospitals, on women, on children, on doctors. what are those people supposed to do? they come to us and someone says we don't welcome them. there is a humanitarian tragedy that needs to be addressed. this can be defined as a crime against humanity. and whoever commits this crime, and we're not going to give anyone a break, will forever be held accountable by history. this house has a duty to condemn in the strongest terms the infamy of attacks on civilians. the european union, and i am speaking in particular to high representative federica mogherini, together with the united nations, must use all the instruments at its disposal to stop this massacre, to achieve a ceasefire and to resume negotiations. this has to be done now, because now it's being bombed. when the lights go out in this parliament and we go to dinner or to bed, they will continue to bomb. so it must be done now and with the utmost authority and force, mr president-in-office. we must demand immediate and unconditional access to aid and humanitarian personnel, because this is an obligation under international law: i call for a ceasefire and immediate access for humanitarian aid. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the united nations and the european union, through the other representative, must use all peaceful means to achieve a ceasefire and access to humanitarian aid. i do not think that wars should be waged and that military intervention should be used. we must use the political weapon of negotiation and the power of political persuasion.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the bloody chessboard that syria has become, the capture of aleppo could represent a strategic turning point. the political one, paradoxically, could not be in geneva, nor even in new york, damascus, washington or brussels, but surprisingly in istanbul. there, in fact, putin and erdogan will meet on 10 october to clearly put their respective demands on the table. the need for russia and iran to support their long-standing ally assad, in order not to lose the last bastions of the mediterranean, will be confronted on the one hand, and on the other hand, the turkish will to break the territorial continuity of the kurds and possibly put them under control with a no-fly zone. in the background, the ambiguity of us action, paralysed by the impending change in the white house, unable to mitigate the agendas of the gulf allies, to isolate once and for all the extremists, but above all to reconcile the increasingly incoherent alliance with the turks, with the promise of support for the kurds, the real protagonists of the war against daesh, precisely those valiant kurds as always used and abandoned by the superpowers engaged in the great middle eastern game. the truce and failed attempts at us-russian coordination have further pushed this ankara-moscow strategic rapprochement. given the many interests involved and despite mutual distrust, a draft agreement could be agreed in istanbul to be negotiated with the new us presidency, perhaps a tripartite agreement, if not in law at least in fact. in all this, between leading actors, puppeteers, sponsors and comprimeri, there is a conspicuous absence as always: it's our life. syria is our neighbour, and we were the first to suffer the disastrous consequences of its destabilisation, primarily in terms of refugee flows. we're still the champions of humanitarian aid, but all the big choices are flying over our heads. we remain a dwarf in foreign policy and the blame lies with the merry band of member states, who, as always, agree only on disagreement. the image we give is of a mechanism that is stuck, internally torn and perpetually waiting for an innovative momentum that never comes. the price of this absence is being paid by 13.5 million syrians in need of immediate assistance, more than 11 million refugees from outside and inside the country, entire cities razed to the ground, more than 400 000 dead, an endless humanitarian drama. while europe talks, syria burns, and we, instead of mediating and pushing solutions with all our might, are watching who shares the ashes.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is like the image of mrs mogherini, invisible or at least absent, and those who spoke on her behalf made a noble report, they spoke to us about humanitarian aid, but the european union is not just an ngo, at least we did not think it was. there is not only a war of words, but also a war of words. on the one hand, there are even prospects of terrorist attacks on russian territory, on the other hand, there are threats of such attacks. europe is silent, europe has no role. a war of words, potentially very dangerous, because it could lead to unimaginable things. we remember that even as the geneva ceasefire was being finalized, there was almost total opposition to the agreement in washington. obama was a little bit cold about it. the first occasion was when the us coalition bombed a syrian army post and the next day accused the russians, without actually having any proof that they had bombed a humanitarian aid convoy. the reality is that putin has come to the conclusion that there is no real prospect for russia to reach an agreement with obama on syria and so russia's action has resumed with those serious consequences that we have rightly pointed out. intelligence sources are saying that isis is preparing chemical attacks in syria, and specifically in eastern aleppo, against civilians, but no one in this chamber is saying that. the bloodshed in syria, iraq and yemen, and the chaos in libya have all highlighted one thing: the regional powers are unable to resolve the crisis without the decisive intervention of an external force. europe is absent and does not even realize it. i doubt that the united states can do that at the end of a presidency that is not as exceptional and as shaky as that of obama, especially incomprehensible even at this stage. perhaps we need to realize that there is only one power left, russia, which, contrary to what obama thinks, is not a regional power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what more can i say? i have heard a lot of hypocrisy from the council today, which should know that in today's geopolitical environment there is a fundamental rule: the voids are created and filled, either by us or by others. if europe is not able to play a leading role in the syrian affair, others are doing so, as russia and the united states are doing. and if that happens to us, we are left with only one role, that of spectators, able to watch the syrian game from the stands, as we have seen, divided among the fans. i would like the council to consider this. but from what i've heard today, it doesn't sound like he's capable of doing that. we are not doing what is necessary and it would be our duty to do. our absence will be a heavy weight on our conscience, a weight on a european ruling class whose only secure place will be in hell.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in syria is catastrophic. the images coming from aleppo and its devastation weigh on everyone's conscience. the numbers are disturbing: 96 children killed in one week, 275,000 people under siege, at least 50 dead in bombings in the last few hours. the truces announced only last a few hours, and then the shooting and bombing continues, without regard for schools, hospitals and defenseless civilians. europe cannot and must not remain silent in the face of this carnage, it must exercise its international leadership and create the conditions for an immediate ceasefire and for the opening of humanitarian corridors. the situation is serious and at the same time complex, as a result of the overlapping of various tensions. a political solution is needed and europe must play a decisive role in reopening negotiations and putting an end to this immense humanitarian tragedy. for this to happen, the member states must first allow the european union to speak with one voice.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for all the interventions, opinions and views. there were many diverging positions, but i dare say that this house agrees today on at least two important points that we have heard during our discussion on syria. first, this house is sending a strong message of condemnation of all the atrocities we are witnessing on the ground in syria. i dare say that there is no difference between this house and the member states and institutions. secondly, we could have a very long discussion, and we would certainly need more time on that, but what matters at this moment, as we speak, is what federica mogherini has initiated and that is the initiative on aleppo. people on the ground are desperately waiting for humanitarian assistance and federica is working very hard to make it possible in that theatre for the convoy to be able to reach the people of east aleppo. the third point that i would like to take with me from this debate is a recognition – an admission if you like – that we are reaching the point where we indeed need a deeper debate about the strategy that we have been witnessing on syria. i would say that the next opportunity for this deeper discussion about strategy will be at the upcoming foreign affairs council, where i am sure that federica and the foreign ministers will engage in a very deep discussion on this overall strategy. fourthly, i agree with all those who said that this crisis is prompting us to take further steps towards increasing our capability to go beyond what the european union is mainly doing in international affairs, namely to be a soft power, a power which is unfortunately quite limited and is focused mainly on humanitarian assistance. let me say that steps in this direction are underway. i recall that in bratislava – and we had a discussion this morning about the upcoming european council – and i quote from the roadmap, ‘the december european council should decide on a concrete implementation plan on security and defence and how to make better use of the options in the treaties, especially as regards capabilities’. so, once again, we know that if we want to have more influence in international affairs, we need to work on capabilities. this process was launched in bratislava and i assure, on behalf of the council, that we will work intensively in order to implement what was adopted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 6 october 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the peace process in colombia (2016/2895 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr. president, in colombia the no won, and now we can blame hurricane matthew, which did not allow many colombians to leave their homes to be able to vote, or we can blame the fact that it was the first time in twenty-five years that the colombian people had been called to decide in a plebiscite. we can also be convinced that in colombia there are political forces which do not want peace and which have won. but the reality is that the peace process negotiated in havana is irreversible. although what was agreed in havana will now have no legal effect, the road to peace is already under way and no political or ideological speculation can stop it. we hope that in the face of this situation the european union will continue to support the peace process and, above all, those who are willing to lay down their arms and lift up their hearts. the european union has to do much more than simply freeze the 70 million euros in the colombian fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of arduous and lengthy negotiations, the historic agreement between the colombian government and the main farc guerrilla group was signed in havana in the presence of the un secretary-general, ban ki-moon, to end a long and bloody war. the news had rekindled hopes in the international community for lasting peace after more than 50 years of conflict. unfortunately, the referendum held a few days ago on ratifying the agreement, despite the various appeals from the international community, was a 'no' vote. now there is fear of the international isolation that the country may fall into. the road to peace in colombia is still long. with europe's help, every effort must be made to continue the peace process and to bring about a definitive end to an internal conflict which has claimed over 220 000 victims and displaced 6 million people.
mr president, targeted sanctions against those who have confiscated democracy and are holding the congolese people hostage. targeted sanctions against those who violate the constitution. targeted sanctions against perpetrators of crimes against humanity. no impunity for those who deprive the democratic republic of congo (drc) of a genuine, inclusive and transparent national political dialogue in respect of the institutional framework: the ongoing dialogue is a sham. no impunity for those who violate freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly: the right to peaceful assembly is a fundamental right, guaranteed by the drc constitution. there will be no impunity for those responsible for the multiple massacres in the territories of beni, butembo and lubero and in the cities of kinshasa, kananga and lubumbashi. i offer my condolences to all the families of those who lost their lives fighting for freedom, justice and dignity. there will be no impunity for perpetrators of any form of violence against women and children. we call for free, credible and transparent elections to be held in the democratic republic of congo in accordance with the constitution and international law. we call for the opening of political space to all citizens who have a project for a society that is an alternative to the current government. we call for the unconditional release of political and prisoners of conscience and all democracy activists - many of whom face the death penalty - and for the liberalisation of the media. we call for strict respect for the principle of the separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers, as enshrined in the constitution itself. we pay tribute to all congolese women and men at home and abroad who are making their voices heard peacefully in defence of democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the congo is facing a political crisis which threatens to derail the country's course. the constitution provides for a maximum of two presidential terms, but current president kabila, in power since 2001, does not seem to be willing to respect this provision. the concern is that instability in the country could spread throughout the great lakes region, as has happened in the past. this would mainly affect civilian populations and could lead to further internal migration and to neighbouring countries. this is a scenario that must be avoided if we are not to face yet another humanitarian catastrophe. unfortunately, the continuous postponement of elections scheduled for november is dragging the democratic republic of congo into chaos and violence. it is absolutely essential that these elections take place as soon as possible and in accordance with the democratic process and the rules which guarantee fairness and equal opportunities for all participants. europe must work to ensure that the constitutional pact is respected and to encourage dialogue between the parties.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange, and i am grateful to members for their very valuable interventions from this debate. that is my first general remark. i conclude that we all share a common interest in using all the tools at our disposal to encourage all political actors in the drc to seek consensus within the framework of the constitution then of un security council resolution 2277 and to ensure the full protection of the rights and freedoms of all citizens. honourable member arena, you are right. i have referred to progress, but it was rather limited progress and i also stressed that the challenge now is to achieve greater inclusivity in participation and greater substance in discussions. secondly, on sanctions, i would like to say and recall that the eu will review the use of all tools at its disposal to act against those linked with violence and incitement of violence. i stress in particular our emphasis on individual responsibility covering all actors, and in addition our insistence that the security forces are responsible for maintaining public order within the rule of law. finally, a number of members referred to the importance of civil society in making democracy work in the democratic republic of congo, i strongly support that and we will continue to use our means to encourage and support these activities.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to participate in today’s debate on the situation of women’s rights in poland. respect for women’s rights and gender equality is part of european integration. however, as you know, the eu has no competences on abortion policy and cannot interfere in member states’ policies in this area. according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the definition of health policies and the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care is primarily the responsibility of individual member states. having said that, i would very much hope that poland will not stop progressing towards gender equality but rather continue to build on the genuine achievements of the past years. poland has, for example, introduced an electoral gender quota system. it has also made great reforms improving work-life balance, such as the extension of the duration of basic maternity leave to 20 weeks, the introduction of paternity leave, parental leave arrangements and an increase in the accessibility of preschool education. even though the electoral gender quota has increased the number of women on electoral lists it has not translated into a considerable increase of women’s actual participation in politics, yet. the gender gap in employment rates continues to undermine the potential of many economies in europe. in poland it is particularly high among older women leaving the labour market earlier than men, and among young mothers because of still insufficient access to childcare. in the 2016 country specific recommendations poland was encouraged to step up efforts to increase female labour market participation. so, let me conclude by restating our genuine commitment to women’s rights and gender equality and my hope that we can continue to work with the polish authorities to achieve further progress in the area. i am looking forward to today’s discussion, and at the end of this discussion i will enjoy the privilege to add also a few words from my personal side.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can say that we have won a first battle: i have just learned that the obscurantist abortion bill in poland has been rejected in committee. it's not the final decision, but it's a first victory we've had, something very important. that is why we, the polish delegation of my group and all the other members of the group, were dressed in black on monday. we wore black, joining millions of polish men and women who bravely stood up for their basic rights. this is proof that solidarity knows no boundaries, it can achieve concrete results. it is an important day for women and for the defence of human rights. my group has always fought to promote a progressive vision of the fundamental rights and values of the european union. women's rights are a responsibility of the whole human race. we all have a duty to fight against any form of violation of these rights. the empowerment of women means the progress of all humanity. respect for fundamental rights and equality between men and women is enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union and cannot be the subject of negotiation or bargaining. membership of the european union means ensuring that certain inalienable principles are fully respected in all member states. this is threatened in poland and we are therefore for the polish people and not, as they say, against them. we do not want to interfere at all, except when the rights and legitimate prerogatives of polish citizens are threatened. now, the proposal is not yet finalized. we shall be watching very closely and hope that the polish parliament will finally reject this proposal. otherwise there will be fierce opposition from the vast majority of this parliament. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. throughout europe there is modern legislation guaranteeing the right to terminate a pregnancy, which is obviously not an obligation but a choice linked to a woman's self-determination. you want a woman to carry a pregnancy to term of a fetus that will die or be afflicted with enormous diseases, just because of an abstract principle of the right to life? that is not a right to life, that is a right to death, and we must avoid that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the polish bill is worrying because it prohibits abortion in almost all circumstances. it is so concerning that a large women's movement has upset the government, which is perhaps thinking of another law that may exclude rape from the ban. but it will be no less punitive. such laws will not improve, because they are part of a regression, which kaczynski calls a "cultural counterrevolution", focused on the total merger of state and church and the violation of specific eu directives on non-discriminatory access to health. it is not true, therefore, that the competence is national only. even if the law were to remain in force, it would not be a step forward, since it is one of the most punitive in europe. it's time to support the battle of polish women. their representatives are with us today, here in strasbourg, they are up there, and i invite you all to greet them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. you also know well, as i know from having been to poland many times, that the weight of the catholic hierarchy in poland is extremely heavy. the bishops of the polish church have announced a christian crusade over this law. i think that the citizens in question are strongly influenced by this kind of crusade and therefore by the non-separation of church and state that exists in poland.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing myself to you, mrs wiśniewska, your false conscience speaks of the right to life. you are asking europe to deal with real problems, such as immigration. i have just come from a meeting of the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean, with the italian coast guard present, which has rescued thousands of migrants in the mediterranean, but unfortunately many have died, they have not been able to do so. the government of your country rejects european solidarity and supports orban's initiatives. what right to life are you talking about? here is your false conscience. i fully support the struggle of polish women and i am convinced that the movement under way will defeat the conservative and obscurantist positions, will overthrow this patriarchal terrorism present in various sectors of polish society and will return your splendid country to the europe of rights, because it is in this europe of rights that it deserves to be.
i'll cut off the bull's head. since we don't have time, i absolutely do not accept the request. (the speaker refuses to answer a question by mr wiśniewska (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the polish government refused to confirm the appointment of five judges to the constitutional court and passed laws allowing control of the media and the prosecutor's office, another blow to democracy has been dealt by poland. parliament is set to pass a law that would impose up to five years in prison on women who have abortions and on doctors who assist them, including in cases of rape or incest. my colleague maria arena rightly pointed out that the european court of human rights had already challenged the existing abortion law in poland because it placed unacceptable obstacles to access to safe and legal abortion. this law definitively breaks the right of women to access abortion even in the presence of serious cases. it is time for the european union to make its voice heard and to prevent further blatantly undemocratic measures from being implemented in poland. women have the same dignity and rights throughout the continent and their rights cannot be trampled on in any way, especially in a country that is a member of the european union.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cañete, minister, yesterday we experienced a historic moment in this very house, where we gave the green light, by a large majority, to the effective entry into force of the paris agreement before the cop22 in marrakesh. after kyoto it was a long process and objectively today we have a global, legally binding agreement to really fight climate change on an international level. but after yesterday's success, our minds are already in marrakesh, which will be the place to move from words to action, that is to say, to the implementation measures necessary to achieve the objectives set in paris. we will go to marrakesh with the same determination and the same leadership ambition that we had in paris. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow will be the mandate for our delegation and agreements and negotiations will be initiated on the main elements. first, a strengthened framework for transparency, details for a global budget, some additional guidance on indcs, an understanding of the differentiation of loss and damage, as well as talking about climate finance, with inclusive multi-level governance as well as a mechanism to facilitate implementation and promote compliance. it will also be necessary to start discussions on the form of the 2018 facilitation dialogue, which will be an important opportunity to close the existing mitigation gap in the light of the current indcs, and in which the eu can play a proactive role in terms of the level of collective ambition and progress in implementing its commitments. the resolution underlines the good progress of the european union in meeting its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and renewable energy targets and the efforts that need to be increased in order to meet the 2050 targets. i would like to stress an important passage in the resolution: we regret that the international air and sea transport sector is not mentioned in the agreement, despite being the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases. parliament therefore stressed the need to implement a series of strategies to reduce emissions in this sector. we know that this is a difficult subject, but parliament will continue to speak out on this matter. ultimately, efforts at climate diplomacy will be needed to ensure that the negotiations are positive and produce real progress towards our common goal. we owe this to ourselves and to future generations, and thanks to good policy, we are getting closer to that goal.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement will enter into force at the same time as cop22 and that is certainly a good sign. we need to look at the glass half full of this tool to hold out hope that we can still change a process that is much bigger than us, hoping to see at least a slowdown in climate change. but in the half-empty glass there is no time for reassuring messages and simple hopes. in this part of the glass, it continues to harbour a political fog made up of binding commitments, but for which there are no sanctions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in this part of the glass, the sum of the reduction commitments, as declared by the individual contracting parties, is still not enough to contain the temperature increase within two degrees, let alone within one and a half degrees, by the end of the century. the glass is half empty, but there is still no serious political will to tackle the stone guest, namely agriculture and animal husbandry, in particular, as mrs torres martínez has mentioned, a problem that is as real as it is ignored. according to a very recent unep report, food production is second only to fossil fuel use in terms of emissions liability. and, as the honourable member has pointed out, we are talking about food production based on waste and the destruction of resources, which is typical of advanced economies, and certainly not about agriculture which is supposed to feed the hungry. the glass is half full, however, and the risk of an international bond market is there. that's great news for financial speculators, but not so good for the fate of the planet. a disaster, the ets, a global ets that could only be made worse by continuing to support ccs as a solution to decarbonise production, a practice that describes very well what it means to put the dust under the carpet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes on the day after the european ratification of the paris agreements on combating climate change was approved by a very large majority, although unfortunately not unanimously as we would have liked. it was a historic moment - many have already said this - for climate action, but one that we cannot help but also appreciate as symbolic. while many in our union believe that we are facing epochal challenges by closing ourselves within our own borders, the paris agreement shows that global challenges can and must be met with global responses and that europe can play a leading role. in november we will be in marrakesh for the 22nd cop and with other colleagues we will be there to continue the contribution of ideas that have been highlighted in parliament's resolution. i do not want to go back to what we have already discussed, but i would like to stress one point: to make the transition to a low-carbon society possible, a simple policy of reducing emissions into the atmosphere is not enough if we do not at the same time encourage and support a paradigm shift in our development model, that is, if we do not move, as we have repeatedly said to ourselves and as we really have the opportunity to do, to a circular economy model, which means efficient use of resources, investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy, which alone can hold together sustainability and growth and make us comply with the paris agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the marrakesh negotiations must continue along the lines of the key elements of the paris agreement, in particular with regard to strengthening the framework for transparency of climate mitigation actions, defining the 2018 revisions of national commitments, creating mechanisms to address climate loss and damage and promoting compliance with the rules of the climate agreement. i stress the need to start discussions on the form of the 2018 facilitation dialogue, which should address the existing mitigation gap. the european union must play a proactive role in this first facilitation dialogue to take stock of the level of collective ambition and progress in implementing the commitments made. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the paris agreement on climate change and its impact on the environment, including the impact of the paris agreement on climate change and its impact on the environment, and the impact of the paris agreement on climate change and its impact on the environment.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency is one of the founding principles of the five star movement and it is a guiding principle in our political action here in the european parliament. we believe that public institutions should be glass buildings, where citizens control the work of their representatives, who are not delegated in vain. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. i 'll say it plainly: i think we're wasting an opportunity. it is these missed opportunities that drive citizens away from the institutions and make the european project seem abstruse to them. the register must be contained in a legally binding act, with erga omnes effect, and not in a mere interinstitutional agreement. this is a fundamental point which i would like to stress, because only by means of a law-enforcing act would lobbyists be obliged to provide true and correct information, whereas this is left to their good will. legal firms, embassies of third countries, permanent representations of the member states and officials of all ranks and levels of the three institutions, including the council and the preparatory bodies, must be included in the scope of activities covered by the register. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. we want a radical change of paradigm: everything has to be made public and what happens behind the scenes should be an exception. today we do not know what is happening inside the european council or inside the eurogroup and who is really making the decisions that are killing the european project and the citizens. it is a proposal without ambition, in my view, and one which is designed to avoid disturbing the real handlers of the european union. the lobbying exists, but we have an obligation to make the activities of everyone working within the european institutions, of those who make policy within the european institutions and of those who lobby, transparent, and this must be done by law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, i too believe that making the european institutions more transparent is our responsibility as the european parliament, but that it is also the responsibility of every public policy maker. the crisis of confidence in politics - as has been mentioned - has reached worrying levels, sometimes because of a lack of clarity about our activities, very often, but sometimes also because, as in the recent speech by my colleague, we tend to create a climate of constant suspicion towards ourselves, that we are elected representatives of the citizens who must instead transmit trust and respectability. i think the commission's proposal for an interinstitutional agreement is an interesting step in this direction because it proposes an interesting instrument, although it is a first step, which allows us to start working towards a common position, because otherwise it is very easy to bypass the instrument. i would like to remind you that the afco committee has indeed done a great job and i think we will be able to vote on the agreement - for the sake of peace of mind, mr giegold - but we want to vote on it with a majority that will allow us to vote on it in plenary. i think, however, that in the work we are going to do we will have to deal with the subject which i think is a little moderate in the council's view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so i think one of the things we have to work on is to widen the range of those in the council who are bound by the rules and the register that we are going to build together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a mandatory transparency register for parliament, the council and the commission is an important step in the process of restoring citizens' trust in the european institutions. the citizens have a right to know who is trying to influence the legislative process of the european union. so we have to propose a simple rule: no meetings with political leaders unless you have registered first. the register will enable the public to see who is lobbying, who they represent and how much they spend. the proposal for a register for the transparency of the three institutions, including the council, because it is also a legislator, makes it possible to strengthen the monitoring and the effective application of the code of conduct of the register for lobbyists. the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register will also improve the quality of the data, thanks to better quality control, and in this respect it would be appropriate for the commission to make more resources available to achieve the objective of transparency.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, materials and articles in contact with food are widely used in everyday life, from packaging to kitchen utensils. we know that there is a chemical-physical interaction between materials and food and that the release of substances which are dangerous to human health can occur during contact. we are talking about extremely harmful substances, such as the so-called endocrine disruptors, about which there has been a heated debate with the commission for months on their very definition. bisphenols, which are found in the plastic bottles of baby girls, just to give an example, and which have been cited as a cause of endometriosis and serious reproductive problems, are also disruptive. the sector has been well regulated in terms of general rules, but there is a lack of harmonisation of the specific legislation of the member states. many countries, including italy, have their own specific legislation, which has been notified to the european union, but there are often problems of mutual recognition. a further aggravation comes from the risk assessment. it happens that the european food safety authority, the efsa, which is supposed to be the guarantor of our health, is doing a partial job and does not take into account the so-called cocktail effect, nor does it take into account multiple exposures to different chemicals. we therefore call on the commission to harmonize specific sectors and to prevent the proliferation of regulations which may cause market distortions, while ensuring a uniform level of food safety, that efsa performs its role as the guarantor of food safety for european citizens and carries out risk assessments worthy of the name, and finally that the commission 100% avoid the presence of endocrine disruptors among these substances and finally protect the health of european citizens more than the interests of lobbies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress the urgency of decisive action at european level, on the one hand, to remedy the lack of specific measures concerning certain types of materials in contact with foodstuffs in the light of the precautionary principle and, on the other, to facilitate and monitor the implementation of the legislation in force. the lack of harmonisation at european level for certain food contact materials poses a risk to public health and leads not only to a loss of consumer confidence but also to legal uncertainty and higher compliance costs for operators. the proper functioning of the internal market is at risk. i would like to stress three points: traceability, which must be ensured throughout the supply chain in order to facilitate controls also for materials imported from third countries; labelling, which is essential for effective consumer information in the transition to a circular economy involving the recycling and reuse of materials; the need to avoid risks to human health and in particular the need for specific measures at eu level for recycled paper and paperboard. finally, it is essential to increase financial support for research and innovation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of harmonized and uniform rules on the use of food contact materials represents a risk to public health, the protection of the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market. we need uniform european rules to encourage the production of safe or reusable and traceable food contact materials, with the progressive elimination of all substances that could pose a danger to the health of consumers. particular attention should be paid to those materials which present a high risk of migration and therefore a higher risk to human health, such as materials used to contain liquids and foods rich in fat and also those which are in contact with foodstuffs for a prolonged period of time. the risk assessments carried out by efsa, which are currently limited to individual substances and do not consider the so-called cocktail effect, should be implemented. it is essential to take this effect into account when determining the migration limits considered safe for human health.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the monitoring of the application of european union law, which seems to us to be generally acceptable, shows that the reduction in infringement procedures is not so much linked to the monitoring and prevention activities carried out by the commission, but above all to the fact that in recent years there has been a drastic reduction in the number of legislative proposals by the commission. all this gives us the opportunity to reflect, and of course all the institutions of the european union should reflect, on the reasons for this behaviour. perhaps the commission has regulated most aspects of the lives of european citizens. or, on the contrary, it prefers not to intervene on issues which risk bringing up and in some cases aggravating further the differences between member states. i think there are still many questions for which the european citizens want answers. i am thinking in particular of legislation on the fight against corruption and organised crime, but also on the protection of whistleblowers or legislation on transparency. finally, i am somewhat perplexed about the fact that financial penalties can be a real deterrent to tackling infringements, since they would ultimately fall on the shoulders of the taxpayers. it would probably be wiser and more effective to introduce deterrent mechanisms such as the suspension of the voting rights of states which commit infringements.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the report highlights two serious problems which, in my view, should be solved quickly. the first concerns indicators. the report is based on purely quantitative indicators, but we also need qualitative assessments to understand the reasons and characteristics of non-application of european standards in certain countries. we need to express a political judgment which can only be made if we have all the elements of evaluation which are unfortunately lacking today. european integration cannot be measured by the same aspersive parameters as quantitative ones. the second issue is transparency. parliament, as you know, has difficult access to both the pilot system and the information on pending cases. we are not in a position to assess whether the reduction in the number of formal procedures really reflects the increased implementation of european union law, or whether it is not the compromise between the commission and the member states. so, having elements of transparency here too would make his work, but above all our intervention, much more effective and precise.
author. – madam president, victoire ingabire, the leader of the opposition unified democratic forces party, was arrested in 2010 and is being held in prison for allegedly posing a terrorist threat to the country. however, the sentence was based on unreliable evidence, while of course we would want her to be judged on the basis of a fair trial. like victoire ingabire, other political activists and government opponents have gone missing or are currently in prison. effectively, the rwandan government, despite calling itself democratic, is severely limiting political pluralism and obstructing freedom of expression and association throughout the country. therefore, it is fundamental to establish a true democratic process, even in the light of the economic agreement signed at the beginning of september. the protection and freedom of its citizens must be ensured by the rwandese government. it is necessary to allow a european delegation to attend and give evidence when this process will be seriously started.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it was 2013 when this parliament passed a resolution on the eight-year prison sentence imposed on victoire ingabire, who was found guilty of attempting to run for the leadership of rwanda by challenging president kagame, in a process that was purely political in nature. three years later, we have to face the hardening of the sentence, extended to fifteen years, and the deterioration of the health of the rwandan leader, while the political climate in preparation for the 2017 elections is likely to be damaged by the pressure on journalists and the media, and in the country there are even talks of changes to the constitution to allow the president to run for a third term. with this resolution we want to keep the matter alive and we call on the rwandan government to guarantee the right to a fair trial and to ensure that the opposition forces have sufficient space, so that freedom of expression is guaranteed and there is a greater pluralistic climate in the next elections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, victoire ingabire is an icon of the struggle for freedom and democracy in rwanda. she returned to the country in january 2010 after 16 years of exile to participate in the presidential elections, was arrested in october 2011 and is now in prison on charges of terrorism and threatening national security. the european parliament had called for a fair trial in accordance with international legal standards. unfortunately, a delegation of the european parliament and the european union, which recently came to rwanda to learn about the situation of ingabire in prison, was refused to see her. the country has changed a lot since the 1994 massacre. nevertheless, human rights watch has documented numerous disappearances and numerous politically motivated arrests and unlawful detentions, particularly of government opponents. it is now clear that the detention of victoire ingabire is only a logical policy of the incumbent government. the european union and the international community must call for the immediate release of ingabire and all political prisoners.
author. – madam president, the current issue of sudan is taking on increasingly alarming dimensions, especially with regard to the darfur region, where government forces have launched about thirty chemical attacks against the civilian population since the beginning of this year. the last two of these took place on 9 september, with dramatic and devastating effects; they have spared no-one. we must immediately take measures to stop any type of attack. the sudanese government must ensure strict respect for human rights and freedoms of its citizens. to make this possible, it is necessary to reinforce the united nations arms embargo and extend it to include all sudan – not just the region of darfur. for this purpose, we urge the sudanese government, this parliament and all stakeholders to act urgently to put an end to these atrocities, allowing the necessary provision of humanitarian assistance.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sudan is still facing a dramatic situation, dominated by conflict, violence and a lack of protection of human rights. the case involving operative members of a trafficking ring from the tracks centre, one of the few remaining independent organisations working in the field of sudanese civil society, is an example of this. these activists, accused of inciting war against the state, a crime punishable by death, were put on trial last september. the trial and sentencing of human rights activists is a worrying sign to all those who work in sudanese civil society to defend human rights and civil liberties. with this resolution we want to draw attention once again to the worrying conflict situation in sudan and call on the government authorities to ensure that activists and civil society workers can play their full role as human rights defenders without being prosecuted or condemned in a manner contrary to international law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in sudan is very difficult. the country is shocked by the recent violence between supporters of president salva kiir and those of former vice president riek machar. amnesty international has reported that the sudanese government has even carried out chemical weapons attacks against the civilian population this year. added to the violence is a dramatic famine. that's at least five million people who are hungry. the political crisis has left the whole country in a state of great instability and violence. a very painful and very complex situation that has distant roots: war, the interweaving of international interests and tribal struggles for local power and so on. all at the expense of the civilian population. it is time for the european union and the international community to exert all their pressure to initiate a political transition or to open the country to democratic norms, the only way to help the people of sudan and also of darfur to emerge from the current state of underdevelopment and suffering.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is not the first time we are discussing sudan in this plenary, and of course we see with very much concern that the human rights situation in sudan has shown no sign of improvement and is, in fact, deteriorating. serious human rights violations have been perpetrated by state actors, government—supported militia and rebel forces in impunity. these happened with serious disregard for sudan’s interim constitutions of 2005, international commitments or recommendations presented by the human rights council. international and local civil society organisations in sudan face severe obstructions in their work, in particular those working on human rights issues and in conflict-affected areas. one of these organisations is the one you referred to, tracks, a human rights organisation which provides and facilitates training on a variety of topics, ranging from human rights to information technology. currently ten members or affiliates of the tracks staff, including its director, khalafalla alafif mukhtar, who has been in detention since may, are facing trial in two separate cases under sudan’s criminal court and these carry – as you also mentioned – the death penalty. the eu considers that the repeated official raids and summoning of staff on judicial charges are in violation of freedom of expression and association and appear to be a clear attempt to intimidate the members of the organisations due to their work on human rights or democratisation. accordingly, we have closely followed developments on the tracks case and we have observed several court sessions. it is coordinating with the different eu member states and other western embassies on the ground to ensure a continuous international presence throughout the trials on a rotation basis. this case is, of course, also continuously raised in meetings with sudanese officials. overall, promoting a conducive environment for civil society and the protection of human right defenders are key issues in eu relations with sudan. we have the eu country map for engagement of civil society and the human rights and democracy strategy for sudan. however, un agencies and humanitarian partners keep being denied access to so many areas in darfur, in south kordofan and blue nile by government authorities, preventing the delivery of assistance which is so needed to the vulnerable population. we have, in the eu, been at the forefront of calling for a speedy agreement on cessation of hostilities, humanitarian taxes and an inclusive, comprehensive and transparent national dialogue process in a conducive environment. efforts towards peace and human rights remain a priority for the eu. the eu, in particular through our special representative for the horn of africa, mr alexander rondos, supports efforts towards a holistic and inclusive political solution. political and financial support was provided to the mediation efforts led by president mbeki, in the framework of the african union high-level implementation panel for sudan and south sudan. we consider that the gravity of the human rights situation requires continued attention from the unhcr and therefore we have supported the extension of the mandate of the independent experts on sudan, while pushing strongly for his full access to all areas of the country. our commitments to enhance cooperation with african countries on migration is firmly anchored within international humanitarian law and international human rights law, and eu assistance to sudan is delivered at bilateral and regional levels through international organisations and ngos, not through that sudanese government. no support has ever been given to the rapid support forces, and we are aware of the specific situation of the christian minorities and are looking into that. there have recently been some arrests of pastors and we are following those cases on the ground as well. the eu will continue to call for the government to respect freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and the media, to release the detainees and to give them an opportunity for fair trial and to conduct credible investigations into human rights violations that led to killing, injuries and material damage. i am sure this is not going to be the last time we discuss the terrible situation in sudan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we condemn today the use of chemical weapons against civilians in the jebel marra region of darfur by the sudanese government and stress that this is a serious violation of international norms and a war crime; we also condemn all other forms of violation of fundamental human rights perpetrated by the sudanese government and opposition forces against activists, journalists and civil society spokesmen. the eu and its member states must continue their commitment to support the efforts of the african union to bring peace to sudan and to the sudanese people in their transition to a reformed democracy from within.
the agenda includes seven motions for resolutions on thailand, notably the andy hall case.
author. – mr president, in october 2015 we highlighted the difficult political situation in thailand, where a military junta took power after the coup of may 2014. at present there is no way to foresee a full transition back to a civilian government. on the contrary, the thai military junta has adopted arbitrary and even more restrictive measures to disrupt the lives of everyone opposing the regime. arrests and intimidation are frequent in order to control the population and reduce or eliminate citizens’ freedom of expression. among them, andy hall, who has always been a defender of workers’ rights and a committed activist, has been falsely accused of defamation and now faces a three-year prison sentence. we ask for immediate withdrawal of this allegation, and stress the regime should change its attitude to its citizens and to fundamental freedoms. for these reasons, we think it is essential for the commission and the european external action service to take action on the issue.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, andy hall is one of many activists who have exposed the human rights and labour rights violations that migrant workers in thailand are facing on a daily basis. the reporting activity of andy hall and other rights defenders has been prosecuted as a crime of defamation and this represents a restriction of the space of freedom and freedom of expression available to civil society. we believe that the bangkok government must realize that exposing abuses and bad practices by companies will not damage the country's reputation or access to the global product market, but will help to improve the quality of the world of work for the benefit of workers of all nationalities. i hope that thailand will continue to make progress in the protection of labour rights and in particular that it will continue to implement the memorandum of cooperation with neighbouring countries on the employment of foreign workers, a regulatory system which is still too little used. we hope that there will be a positive response to our resolution from the thai authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must express our concern at the four-year prison sentence for defamation and computer crimes handed down on 20 september in bangkok to andy hall, a british citizen and migrant rights activist who three years ago denounced the exploitation of labour in the fruit processing industry, much of which was destined for export to europe. hall had denounced, on behalf of an ngo, the use of forced child labour, lower than legal wages and irregular working hours in a factory of the thai giant national fruit. the european union must condemn this measure, which once again affects those who denounce the use of child labour by these large multinationals. we must demand a review of the andy hall trial and at the same time ask ourselves about the ethical quality of the products entering our market. consumers must be informed about the quality of products, but also about the basic guarantees offered to every worker employed in production. in short, we must prevent products manufactured by minors from entering our market.
member of the commission. – mr president, a thai court has sentenced the british social rights campaigner, andy hall, to a three—year suspended prison sentence. mr hall is present with us today and i welcome his presence. the case was brought against him by a thai food processing company for his contribution to a report by the european ngo, finnwatch, which alleged serious labour rights abuses by the company concerned. this verdict sends shivers through thailand’s already nervous human rights and social rights community. criminal defamation laws are often used improperly by various actors to silence analysis and debate. mr hall’s reaction, that he was grateful for the international attention the case has brought to migrant rights in thailand, testifies to his character in a way that the verdict does not because this is, of course, a much bigger question than one person. it is not my role to criticise a court, but let me mention what the ilo country director said, and i quote, ‘labour rights abuses suffered by migrants in thailand have been well documented in various ilo reports. the treatment alleged in the finnwatch report is not unique to any one employer or industry’. this verdict casts a deep shadow over the real progress in thailand in recent months regarding labour conditions. let me mention, for instance, the prohibition of child labour in the seafood sector, the reinforcement of the labour inspection, the new legislation for labour agencies, measures to prevent debt bondage and trafficking in human beings, more deterrent sanctions schemes on labour abuses and the decision to ratify several ilo conventions. this would, of course, not have been possible without political will and dedicated thai officials, without our dialogue with them, and without the cooperation of the ilo. the eu has several projects in thailand, together with the ilo, on the issue of migrant workers and labour conditions. the progress made is good and we expect it to continue. we hope that the abuses and the type of abuses which mr hall has documented will soon no longer be found in thai factories. respecting human rights is important, but it is also good business. companies in thailand and everywhere in the world who want to send to the eu need to understand that european consumers demand products free of labour abuse. i say to them that they should not underestimate the fundamental decency of the european consumer during her or his daily shopping. do not underestimate the eu’s – and the increasingly global –determination in ensuring decent work in global supply chains and more transparency. this is indeed an issue we are working on with companies to see if we can formulate a more coherent corporate social responsibility strategy that we are working on within the commission. mr hall, finnwatch, thai workers, migrant workers in thailand and thai officials working on labour rights all deserve our continued support and the closest possible cooperation to accelerate the process which is still so necessary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis has led the european union, together with the g20, to address the role of international financial reporting standards on financial stability and growth, in particular with regard to loss-recognition rules in the banking system. the motion for a resolution on international financial reporting standards, which i have supported today, deals with ifrs 9 which is one of the main responses to the financial crisis by the international accounting standards board (iasb). the new instrument will improve accounting problems by introducing a new model for the classification and measurement of financial instruments, a new criterion for the valuation of expected losses and new rules for the recognition of hedging instruments. however, some concerns remain about the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking, insurance and financial markets in general and therefore the iasb needs to strengthen its capacity to analyse the impact, paying particular attention to the macroeconomic dimension.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the international financial reporting standards ifrs 9 presents some critical issues that could create future problems for companies in our territories. that is why i have decided not to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i support the parliament's report on the adoption of international financial reporting standards (ifrs 9) and share the concerns raised about the commission's lack of clarity. in particular, the potential negative impact of ifrs9 on long-term investments in the absence of a quantitative impact assessment remains open. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the path to recovery from the crisis and return to economic growth requires clarity on the priority to be given to increasing investment. in this connection, we must stress the need for coherence between eu actions, such as the european fund for strategic investments, and more technical provisions which risk inhibiting rather than stimulating investment itself.
in writing. ‒ ifrs 9 is one of the iasb's main responses to the financial crisis. it is an improvement on ias 39 in that the change from a 'loss sustained' to a 'loss expected' model addresses the 'too little, too late' problem in the recognition of credit losses. the key point to be borne in mind is that in the case of ifrs 9, there is no adequate quantitative assessment of the impact on financial markets and financial stability. therefore, a phased-in mechanism should be developed to mitigate the impact of the new impairment model by avoiding sudden impacts on capital ratios and bank lending. the accounting treatment of certain directly or indirectly held financial instruments in ifrs 9 is also of concern, as this could be contrary to the general objective of promoting long-term investment; it is therefore necessary to ensure that ifrs 9 is functional to the eu strategy. ifrs 9 will have to comply with the capital integrity directive and the accounting directive. the iasb will need to conduct a post-implementation review of ifrs 9 to identify and assess the undesirable effects of this principle, in particular on long-term investments.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on ifrs 9 which is one of the main responses of the international accounting standards board (iasb), the body responsible for the issuance of international accounting standards, to the financial crisis. ifrs 9 will improve the problems arising from the accounting treatment of financial instruments by introducing a new model for the classification and measurement of financial instruments, a new valuation criterion for expected losses and new accounting rules for hedging instruments. however, i think we need to understand better the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking sector, the insurance sector and the financial markets in general, but also on the financial sector as a whole. i therefore call on the iasb to strengthen its capacity for impact analysis, particularly in the macroeconomic field.
in writing. ‒ in my view, accounting rules which are often too weak or not harmonised have contributed to the expansion of the global financial crisis, especially in relation to the excessive use of fair value (as the reference value for the accounting of financial instruments), i will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to achieve more european international accounting principles to achieve financial stability. moreover, the g20 and the de larosière report had already pointed out, before the crisis, certain specific concerns about accounting principles, including: accounting for profits and losses, underestimation of the accumulation of risks and lack of a common and transparent methodology for valuing unrealised assets. during the crisis, the delay in recognising losses on loans and other financial assets was recognised as one of the main sources of weakness in the existing principles. the change in the measurement of the loss allowance shall be carried out in accordance with the following: however, a proper assessment of the implications is needed: i therefore invite the commission and other supervisory authorities to monitor implementation and prepare an ex post impact assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, in view of the general situation of economic uncertainty, the continuous change in markets and the need to use appropriate instruments to detect and evaluate new financial instruments, the commission should assess the potential effects of ifrs 9 on long-term investments and on the european rules already enacted in this area by further studying the impact of ifrs 9 in particular on the banking sector, the insurance sector and financial markets in general.
in writing. ‒ the role of international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in relation to financial stability and economic growth has increased in the light of the global financial crisis, which has highlighted the weaknesses and shortcomings of the system. we have therefore welcomed the reform and the introduction of new rules to limit the risks for the future. the new accounting principles were drawn up, precisely in the wake of the financial crisis, in order to ensure greater transparency. however, a number of open issues remain on which the commission and other financial authorities will need to act to present proposals, in particular on the insurance sector and the impact on long-term investment, ensuring a proper ex ante impact assessment on the effects of the new rules. the season of uncertainty about the rules, which has had such a negative impact on small savers, is now over. it is now a matter of going all the way to ensure that the system has the right transparency and the necessary resilience.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the international financial reporting standards ifrs 9 because i strongly shared the call from the econ committee for greater transparency in the implementation of international accounting standards because of their importance for financial stability and growth and specifically with regard to the rules on loss recognition in the banking system. the main objective of ifrs 9, which is due to enter into force on 1 january 2018, is to ensure greater transparency with regard to credit risk by opting for an asset-based approach that should be more responsive to developments in the credit cycle. in other words, it is the main response of the international accounting standards board (iasb) to specific aspects of the financial crisis and its impact on the banking system, reducing the level of complexity that the previous accounting standard, ias 39, had. at present, there is no impact assessment and there are serious concerns about the potential effects of the application of these rules on investment, as they could foster some volatility. long-term investment must be considered as a 'public good' because of its positive effects on growth.
in writing. ‒ given the escalation of hostilities in syria, this motion for a resolution, while strongly condemning all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, especially the recent attacks on a humanitarian aid convoy, which constitute grave and worrying violations of international humanitarian law and possible war crimes, calls on all parties to the conflict, in particular russia and the assad regime, to cease all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure and to allow rapid, safe and unhindered access for humanitarian agencies to reach the populations in need of assistance. they also urge all members of the international syria support group to resume negotiations to facilitate the conclusion of a lasting ceasefire and to intensify work towards a lasting political solution in syria. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the situation in aleppo has become a tragic example of the destruction that is daily affecting syria. heavy aerial bombardment has destroyed hospitals, medical facilities, humanitarian convoys and even a red crescent warehouse near the city. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i support, strongly condemns all the attacks that have been directed against civilians and infrastructure and the continuing sieges that prevent humanitarian aid from reaching the people in need. we need credible and immediate measures to bring about a real cessation of hostilities and to ensure that all parties to the conflict, in particular russia and the assad regime, cease attacks on civilians and on vital civilian infrastructure such as water and electricity. high representative mogherini is tasked with defining a common union strategy on syria in order to facilitate a political solution to the crisis, including instruments to monitor and ensure the implementation of the agreements and commitments made within the international syria support group.
in writing. ‒ i found the resolution on which we voted unbalanced and not acceptable, and therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria because i join with my colleagues in condemning the recent attacks against civilians and we urge the parties in the international syria support group to resume negotiations in order to facilitate the establishment of a stable peace. furthermore, we call in the resolution upon russia and the assad regime to stop attacking civilian infrastructure, including water and electrical infrastructure, and to allow access for humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ all crimes against the civilian population in syria must be strongly condemned; and most emphatically the systematic violations of human rights and international humanitarian law resulting from terrorist acts perpetrated by the so-called islamic state and other radical armed groups against the syrian population; the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected. it is necessary to urge all parties to the conflict to end attacks against civilians. negotiations will need to be resumed to facilitate the conclusion of a stable ceasefire and to intensify work towards a lasting political solution in syria. the eu will have to define as soon as possible a common strategy on syria that facilitates the achievement of a political solution and includes monitoring and enforcement instruments to strengthen compliance with the agreements reached and the obligations assumed. the eu must ensure greater international support to cope with the increase in the number of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria today because the time has come for europe to play a decisive role in reopening negotiations to end the immense humanitarian tragedy consuming the country. the situation in syria is very difficult and the truces, which were only announced, have now lasted only a few hours. the shooting and the bombing continue, without regard for schools, hospitals, and defenseless civilians. i voted in favour of the resolution so that europe does not remain silent in the face of this carnage and exercises its leadership to determine the conditions for an immediate ceasefire and to encourage the opening of humanitarian corridors.
in writing. - while europe is talking, syria is on fire. syria is our neighbor: we were the first to suffer the disastrous consequences of destabilization by others, paid for in the first place in terms of refugee flows. the image europe gives of itself is that of a stuck mechanism, internally torn apart and perpetually waiting for an innovative impulse that never arrives. the price of this absence is being paid by 13.5 million syrians in need of immediate assistance, more than 11 million refugees between outside and inside and entire cities razed to the ground, more than 400,000 dead, an endless humanitarian drama. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on all parties to the syrian conflict to cease attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, including water and electricity.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against a completely unbalanced resolution which makes no reference to isis and the role of turkey. the resolution also calls for the introduction of compulsory resettlement programmes for refugees.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal put forward by my group on the syrian context. we are witnessing a rapid and tragic escalation, made worse by the lack of international unity of purpose and action. what to do in syria, how to act and how to approach it is becoming increasingly confusing: the union is currently providing humanitarian aid where it can reach those in need, and condemns all attacks against civilians and infrastructure, with the utmost concern for those subjected to undue pain. but that is not enough. we are no less guilty than those who attack civilians, and we cannot complain about having to take in refugees if we do not prevent this in any way by eradicating its root causes. the proposal is intended to define a common strategy for a political solution to the situation, including instruments for monitoring and ensuring implementation in order to strengthen the agreements concluded and the obligations assumed. the union cannot accept the worst of humanity and must not prove once again that it is unable or unwilling to give effective answers to concrete problems, because if it were, any problem or crisis would be stacked, generating a whole pile of issues that are not solved today and will be insoluble tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is now clear to everyone that the ceasefire in syria agreed by the united states and russia at the beginning of september has not been respected and that the situation has worsened, particularly in aleppo, which has recently been hit by heavy aerial bombardments, some of which have targeted medical facilities. the european union has always been one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to people fleeing violence and destruction and it is therefore necessary to allow international humanitarian organisations to reach the syrian civilian population while also protecting humanitarian convoys from terrorist attacks. the whole international community must work to ensure that negotiations in syria are resumed as soon as possible in order to facilitate the conclusion of a stable ceasefire, which is a prelude to a lasting political solution in the country.
in writing. ‒ the situation in aleppo city is becoming more critical: the indiscriminate attacks on civilians and the repeated aerial bombardments have not only undermined the successful outcome of the geneva peace talks and the us-russian truce, but have also seriously worsened the humanitarian crisis in a city whose basic infrastructure is under attack and whose civilian population is under siege and deprived of basic necessities. the european union is one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to syria and can play a very important role as a mediator in the peace process and political transition in the country. in view of this, i intend to support, by my vote in favour, the efforts to urge all parties to the conflict to cease attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, including hospitals, and to work concretely towards the cessation of hostilities, the delivery of humanitarian aid and the effective resolution of the conflict. the eu has already launched an emergency humanitarian initiative for aleppo, both to mobilise funds for the ongoing emergencies and to facilitate the medical evacuation of the wounded.
in writing. ‒ the massacre that took place a few days ago in east aleppo, the heart of the clash between assad and rebel forces, is only the latest tragedy of an unacceptable conflict that has reduced all of syria to rubble, claimed the lives of over 300,000 people and forced almost half the population to flee their homes. the european union, in cooperation with the united nations, has responded to this tragedy with a humanitarian initiative to facilitate the delivery of aid to civilians and to ensure the evacuation of the wounded and sick from eastern aleppo. an important step in damage control, which once again demonstrates the eu's commitment to humanitarian assistance in syria, but which does not change the rules of the game. the real struggle to resolve this endless conflict will be all about politics and diplomacy. i therefore hope that the efforts of the union and of the high representative, federica mogherini, will lead to a constructive dialogue, including the neighbouring countries and the two great superpowers, with the aim of achieving an immediate ceasefire and breaking the deadlock which is destroying the syrian people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe it is necessary to stop the hostilities and the escalation of violence in syria. i therefore urge the parties to the conflict to end all attacks on civilians and infrastructure and to resume negotiations, and the eu to play a more active role in mediating a peace agreement.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution which contains an attack on russia and makes no critical and condemnatory reference to isis and the role of turkey.
in writing. ‒ while i welcome the focus on the very high cost in terms of civilian casualties of the syrian conflict, i voted against the text as it is not possible to think of attributing the dramatic fallout on civilians of this war exclusively to russia and forces loyal to assad. the responsibility for what is happening in syria is also being attributed to rebel groups, including isis and al nusra, which are also supported and financed by the us and european countries, as well as saudi arabia and turkey. the responsibility of these armed groups and their international sponsors for human rights violations and war is not mentioned in the resolution at all. the resolution thus becomes a declaration of the eu's political position alongside the us, which i do not think is helpful in achieving a stable and lasting ceasefire in syria.
in writing. ‒ the emergency in syria and in particular in aleppo is becoming more and more dramatic. in today's vote, this house has unreservedly condemned all attacks on civilians and infrastructure and strongly called on all parties to the conflict, in particular russia and the assad regime, to cease all operations. the european union is one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to people fleeing violence and destruction. that is also why we as europeans must persevere in our common efforts and collectively take on, through high representative mogherini, a more decisive role in mediating a peace agreement.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution on the situation in syria. parliament is today making its voice heard, as unitedly as possible, on emergencies which thus profoundly affect the values on which the european union is founded. we must not forget that the european parliament, the only european institution directly elected by the citizens, is the guardian of the charter of fundamental rights. as the representative of the european people, parliament has therefore the imperative not to remain silent in the face of the tragedies that are taking place on our borders, and the obligation to express the authority and the value of the democratic mandate. as a group of socialists and democrats we continue to call for a ceasefire in syria, where the sound of bombs continues to overshadow the interlocking of formal and informal negotiations which could find a less deadly solution to this conflict. five years after the war began, it is still difficult to see the minimum conditions for a lasting peace. we therefore call with greater conviction for an effort by all the forces involved to reach an agreement that will protect the syrian people first and foremost.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, i believe that joint action is necessary in the face of an escalation of hostilities in that country. in the syrian conflict, according to the agencies, not only military targets but also medical facilities have been hit in the recent period, causing several civilian casualties. the european union has been one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to people fleeing violence and destruction since the beginning of the conflict. however, the lack of international agreement makes it increasingly difficult to reach a negotiated solution. the european union is committed to the peace process in syria and to the peace process in the middle east. i would therefore like to give a favourable opinion on this proposal, given the importance of the proposal under consideration.
in writing. ‒ the intensification of hostilities and the dramatic deterioration of the humanitarian situation in syria, particularly in aleppo, are of grave concern. i share the firm condemnation of all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, including medical facilities, and the continuation of the siege which makes it impossible to provide assistance to the population, including many women and children, who are in desperate need of essential humanitarian goods. the recent attacks on an aid convoy and a red crescent warehouse near aleppo are serious violations of international humanitarian law. all parties to the conflict must immediately cease all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, work towards an effective cessation of hostilities, end all sieges and allow quick and safe access for humanitarian agencies to reach populations in need of assistance. i welcome the eu's emergency humanitarian initiative for aleppo, which is providing urgent assistance and medical evacuation of the wounded and sick. i join the call for a stable and lasting ceasefire to the members of the international syria support group and the high representative for the definition of a common eu strategy on syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, which strongly condemns the crimes committed against the civilian population and the systematic violations of human rights and international humanitarian law by the so-called islamic state. the proposal calls on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure and to allow safe access for humanitarian workers; the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in favour of this report, an important report which contains a series of calls and recommendations, but also criticisms, to deal with what are the next steps in combating climate change at global level. but it is essential for me to refer to those which are the serious dangers contained in this text and which form part of the union's pillar in combating climate change, namely the ets. the proposal for a global ets is something we clearly challenge the implementation of, because the ets as a market instrument is not a sufficient instrument to tackle environmental and climate problems. it is essential for us to make this statement: the ets is a system that does not work and that simply encourages financial speculation on carbon and certainly not an improvement in the conditions of the planet.
in writing. ‒ the resolution touches on all aspects of climate change, highlighting the positive effects, including economic and innovation, of policies to reduce emissions and promote renewables, and focusing on medium and long-term objectives and sectors to be involved in the reduction effort. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ global warming is a fact and human activities are the main cause of this phenomenon observed since the mid-20th century. the eu's ratification of the paris agreement is an important step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but only its entry into force and subsequent implementation will mark a definitive and irreversible acceleration towards a climate-resilient, zero-carbon global economy. the resolution voted by parliament today on cop22 in marrakech calls on the eu and its member states to continue to play an active part in the high-ambition coalition, committing to accelerating progress in the negotiations and supporting the moroccan presidency in promoting renewable energy and adaptation measures in the global fight against climate change. the union has the experience, capacity and global reach to lead in creating the smart, clean and resilient infrastructure needed to achieve the global transition fostered by the paris agreement; it is for this reason that it must now also support the efforts of developing countries in their transition to societies that are low-carbon, more inclusive, safe and socially and environmentally sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote is unbalanced and contains criticisms which have led me not to support it.
in writing. ‒ in november, in the wake of the paris agreement, cop22 will meet in marrakech. in this respect, i support the european parliament's resolution and in particular the priority given to energy efficiency and sustainability in the fight against climate change. in order to meet the emission reduction targets set by the paris agreement, increased energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources not only have the potential to reduce pressures on the environment in terms of emissions and resource use, but also have the potential to drive sustainable growth in the global economy. moreover, given the level of emissions from raw material extraction and waste management processes, the transition to a circular economy model, based on reuse and recycling, is of paramount importance. i also think it is important that the resolution has stressed the contribution that can be made by the financial sector. in this field, existing experience should be strengthened and developed further, with a view to highlighting the sustainability features of investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech (cop22), a report containing a number of important calls and recommendations to address the next steps to combat climate change globally. although the text is generally agreed, the continued role of the ets as one of the eu's main instruments for combating climate change and its adoption on a global scale is a matter of serious concern to the five star movement. the ets mechanism, by handing over to the logic of the market the way in which to reduce co2 emissions into the atmosphere of the sectors covered by this system, has proved to be totally ineffective in solving environmental and climate problems. this system has in fact encouraged financial speculation in carbon, and the creation of an international bond market is another opportunity for the financial market, to the detriment of the planet.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference that will take place in marrakesh with the aim of supporting the moroccan presidency in its focus on the contribution of renewable energies. in addition, i believe the eu has the capacity to lead by example and it must start working immediately on aligning its targets with the agreed international goal by limiting the increase in the global temperature.
in writing. ‒ the warming of the climate system is unequivocal, climate change is a reality today and human activities are the predominant cause of warming. all countries should accelerate the transition to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions. developed countries must drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond their existing commitments to avoid large-scale negative emissions. in this context, the paris agreement on climate change is a historic achievement in the fight against climate change. to limit the increase in global average temperature, rapid decarbonisation is needed, giving priority to the phasing out of coal emissions. it is appropriate to continue negotiations on the key elements of the paris agreement and it is necessary that member states maintain the commitments agreed under that agreement. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement. the increase in mitigation actions in the period up to 2020 is a key element in assessing the effectiveness of the marrakesh cop. the eu has the capacity and the responsibility to lead by example and to start work immediately.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to ensure that the international climate conference cop22, to be held in marrakech in november, can transpose the paris agreement from a plan of adoption to a plan of action. it is essential that the commission and the member states maintain the commitments agreed under the paris agreement, in particular with regard to the eu's contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as its financial support and the transfer of green technologies to the poorest areas. to make change possible, major investments are needed. the synergies between public and private funding, as well as between the various european funds, must therefore be strengthened. in this regard, the eu should support member states, regions and cities in implementing the paris climate agreement by providing financial support through the european fund for strategic investments, the cohesion fund and the regional development fund, but also through specific instruments such as the natural capital financing instrument and the private finance instrument for energy efficiency under the eib and life funds. the challenge of climate change will be to translate climate commitments into financiable projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which addresses all aspects of climate change, recalling the positive effects of policies to reduce emissions and promote renewables by 2020, and putting the medium and long-term objectives and sectors that need to be involved in the reduction effort back at the centre.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution, as cop22 in marrakech is a focal point for the international debate on climate change. it is a moment for reflection after the recent ratification of the paris agreement and for setting new goals for what is happening to our planet, which is a mirror of our behaviour. in this respect, eu action must focus on resource efficiency in addition to emission reductions. in fact, through research and innovation we will be able to achieve sustainable and competitive production, since a reduction in environmental pressures would be accompanied by a reduction in waste, contributing to an increase in productivity. it will therefore be essential to make concrete commitments on climate finance. in this respect, i express my dismay at the proposal to introduce a financial transaction tax as a source of funding and therefore renew my call on the commission to plan other sources in terms of capacity, governance and implementation mechanisms in a timely manner. the fact is that climate change is a reality with which we must cope, and we must therefore set a new direction for growth and stability for all mankind.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, in addition to calling for the ratification of the paris agreement, it addresses important issues for the daily lives of all european citizens, such as the reduction of harmful emissions and the commitment of all countries to keep the increase in global average temperature under control. the resolution also highlights the important role of research and innovation in climate change, adaptation policies and efficient technologies: a global commitment is therefore needed to encourage and focus investment in this area by developing close international scientific collaboration to spread clean and sustainable energy technologies in both developed and emerging countries.
in writing. ‒ with the entry into force of the paris agreement on climate change, it has become necessary to establish a concrete roadmap to accelerate and scale up the immediate response to the challenges recognised by the paris agreement. the un climate change conference in marrakesh identifies some key actions to achieve the goals outlined in the paris agreement. for example, to contain the global temperature increase to within an average of 1.5 °c, a decarbonisation pathway and a transition to low-carbon investments are needed. the resolution calls on the eu to put pressure on parties that are not in line with the paris agreement. in particular, the commission and the member states are responsible for the timely ratification of the agreement so as not to delay its effects. their role will be crucial in maintaining the eu's commitment to mitigation and adaptation, as well as technology transfer and capacity development. in addition, all greenhouse gas emitters, including the eu, commit to reducing emissions in their ndcs every five years and to take this into account in national development planning. these are the main reasons why i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the resolution is a further step forward in achieving the objectives of the paris agreement. in fact, it marks a turning point towards global and collective action to limit the rise in temperature to a maximum of 1.5°c. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution which does not make the necessary changes.
in writing. ‒ we are very pleased to have voted in favour of ratifying the cop21 climate agreement, allowing the paris agreement to enter into force in time for cop22 in marrakech next november. this is a historic achievement and one which parliament has been strongly pursuing, particularly the progressive group. by giving the eu the green light to ratify, europe has reaffirmed its leading role in actions to safeguard the planet and its capacity for concrete leadership with regard to global socioeconomic and environmental strategies. europe is there, and in moments like today's shows how determined and determining it is for our future. the commitment will now be to meet the ambitious targets set for 2030: reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and invest in substantially increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency. we must therefore continue our joint commitment to global action to create new opportunities for the planet: a more inclusive and sustainable, healthier and safer future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un climate change conference in marrakech (cop22) because i shared the ep's call for developed countries, in particular the eu, to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond their commitments to avoid as far as possible large-scale negative emissions, as the technologies have not yet been proven to be effective, socially acceptable, economical and safe. i therefore hope that other countries will follow the example of the ep and ratify as soon as possible and commit to implement the paris agreement on climate change, as it is a historic achievement in the fight against climate change achieved through the multilateral methodology. it is an ambitious, balanced and legally binding agreement, and its adoption and the cumulative announcements by 187 parties at the end of cop21 of intended nationally determined contributions marked a decisive turning point towards global and collective action at the global level. when implemented, it will provide a definitive and irreversible acceleration of the transition to a climate-resilient and zero-climate global economy. i hope that all countries will make a strong commitment to this.
in writing. cop21 in paris was a historic moment and next november, in marrakech, we will go with the same determination and the same leadership ambition that we had in paris. this report constitutes the mandate for our delegation in the negotiations to be initiated on the key elements of the paris agreement, including: a strengthened framework for transparency, global budget details, additional guidance on indcs, an understanding of differentiation, loss and damage, climate finance, inclusive multi-level governance, and a mechanism to facilitate implementation and promote compliance. the resolution underlines the eu's good progress in meeting its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and its 2020 renewable energy targets. parliament also stressed the need to implement a series of strategies to reduce emissions in the transport, aviation and maritime sectors, and the parties to the unfccc must intervene, including through icao and imo, to develop a comprehensive policy framework to provide an effective and rapid response.
in writing. ‒ considering the importance of the rapid implementation of the paris agreement, of the correlation between economic growth and the war on global warming; we are also convinced that the european union must take a more active role in the fight against climate change, and that the european union must be able to take a more active role in the fight against climate change. the text, which recognizes, among other things, the causal link between the phenomenon of migration and climate change, the proportionality of which is constantly increasing, is in our favour. we also share the hope that the member states will ratify the agreement as soon as possible. in this respect, in view of the marrakesh summit, we call on the representatives of the european union to continue to participate in the so-called high-ambition coalition and to actively encourage the other partners to follow suit and adopt the text swiftly. we also share the call on the commission to bring european environmental objectives into line with the commitments made in paris. in order to achieve the 2020 targets and those under the kyoto protocol, we recognise that the eu is on track to achieve them, but given the need for immediate action, we call for an equal commitment from all parties to cop21.
in writing. ‒ while it is true that the commitment to mitigating global warming is a priority, it is important that this objective is pursued not by hindering economic growth but by acting as a catalyst for creating new jobs in a sustainable way. so i do not feel i support it and i would vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution setting out the european parliament's position on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 united nations climate change conference in marrakech. the resolution urges developed countries, in particular the eu, to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond the commitments already made to avoid large-scale negative emissions. it welcomes the paris agreement on climate change as a historic achievement in the fight against climate change, as an ambitious, balanced agreement representing a decisive turning point towards global and collective action at world level for the protection of the environment. the resolution also stresses the importance of research and innovation in tackling climate change in a cost-effective way and stresses the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries.
in writing. the resolution, for which i voted in favour, takes the issue of climate change into account, starting with the positive effects, including in terms of economic and innovation, of policies to reduce emissions and promote renewables by 2020. we must continue negotiations on the key elements of the paris agreement. this resolution urges the commission and the member states to uphold the commitments they have made under the paris agreement. furthermore, they are encouraged to commit to accelerating progress in the negotiations and to support the moroccan presidency in promoting the contribution of renewable energy and adaptation measures to the global fight against climate change. i believe that timing and joint efforts are essential to combating climate change. the eu can play an ambitious and central role in this area, taking on the responsibility of leading by example on an issue as important as climate change. europe must start working on climate and energy immediately to align its objectives with the internationally agreed target of keeping the global average temperature rise to below 2 °c.
in writing. ‒ there are many materials that come into contact with food today: packaging, cooking utensils, dishes and so on. these materials, when they come into contact with food, can transfer their components to it. for this reason, it is clear that there is a need for greater harmonisation at eu level for non-harmonised materials. for example, specific measures based on scientific evidence could be implemented, giving priority to those materials which pose a particular risk to human health. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ annex i to the framework regulation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs lists 17 materials that could be subject to specific regulation. only four of these are currently listed as such: plastics (including recycled materials), ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. the resolution voted by parliament today calls on the commission to develop the necessary measures on the 13 materials not yet regulated at eu level, taking into account the evaluation carried out by the european parliament's research service and existing and developing national measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. there is a broad consensus that the lack of uniform measures at community level in this area could jeopardise public health, environmental protection and the proper functioning of the internal market. the european union therefore has a duty to respond to this regulatory vacuum which can pose a risk to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the regulation on food contact materials is the final step in the process of making the legislation on food contact materials more harmonised at eu level. i believe that the protection of the health of our citizens is fundamental and this text is moving in exactly that direction, which is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of food contact material regulation because i believe it is a solid legal basis for preventing risks to human health. moreover, this resolution strategically asks the commission to prioritise the drawing-up of specific eu measures for paper and board, varnishes and coatings, metals and alloys, printing inks and adhesives, and calls for further scientific research into the integration between different chemicals.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials (fcms), depending on their composition and properties, behave differently when they come into contact with food, transferring their components to it. under these circumstances, the chemicals released can be harmful to human health. the regulation lays down general safety requirements for all possible materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. specific measures have been adopted at eu level for four csfs: plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for the other csfs, member states take specific measures at national level, but having to comply with different national rules is neither efficient nor effective. in addition, this creates problems for the different national standards on product safety. it is also necessary to improve and strengthen existing legislation and enforcement for the protection and protection of the health of consumers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on food contact materials (fcms), which are used daily to pack food, because we must avoid that they can release dangerous chemicals into food or alter the composition of food, seriously harming human health. food contact materials are subject to legally binding european standards, established by framework regulation (ec) no 1935/2004. the regulation lays down general safety requirements for all possible materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs and also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures for the materials listed in annex i to the framework regulation. specific measures have been adopted to date for only four csfs: plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. the absence of specific measures within the eu for most of the food contact materials listed in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 creates real barriers to the internal market. greater harmonization in this area, through the adoption of specific measures based on scientific data, could be a step in the right direction, an important step towards protecting the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials (fcms) are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils, tableware, and so on. when coming into contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, different materials may behave differently, transferring their constituents to food and risking harm to human health or altering the composition of food. it is good to remember that only some of these materials, such as plastics and ceramics, have been thoroughly tested for safety and public health. others such as paints, varnishes, inks and adhesives are not covered by eu standards and still need to be tested. i voted in favour of this resolution calling for stricter safety standards at eu level.
in writing. ‒ although regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 laying down general safety requirements for all materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs has been in force for more than ten years, there are still major shortcomings in the implementation and enforcement of the existing legislation, especially as regards specific measures, some of which have been defined at european level, which have so far covered only certain materials listed in annex i to the regulation, such as plastics (including recycled plastics), ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. there are still other materials, such as wood or printing inks, for which the member states have regulated themselves in the absence of specific european measures. we are faced with a clear disparity in safety standards which can only be addressed by action taken at european union level both to improve the implementation of the legislation and to avoid barriers to the internal market, and above all to protect the health of consumers. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the needs identified for the gaps in regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, i approve the report. it should be noted that of the 17 materials covered by the 2004 regulation, only four are harmonised at european level, while the remainder are governed by national rules, which creates problems. these difficulties result in a strong inconsistency in the application of laws and sanctions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. unfortunately, this behaviour not only creates competitive disadvantages but also health risks. in view of the above, it is essential to define specific measures to be taken where these are lacking, while ensuring the full implementation of what is already in place. the funds available to the european food safety authority should therefore be used to develop and update information on controlled materials and to study the substances used in their production and those added unintentionally (nias). it is also necessary to clarify and assess the risk posed by the so-called cocktail effect and multiple exposures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation because it sets out the general safety requirements applicable to all possible materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs and also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures for additional materials in addition to those already regulated at european level. i believe that action at eu level is important to close the gaps in risk assessment, traceability, compliance and controls in order to further ensure the health of european consumers in a functioning and effective internal market.
in writing. ‒ the current regulation on food contact materials provides for specific measures on 17 substances. to date, only 4 have been harmonised at eu level, while for all the others member states retain the possibility of adopting national provisions. this lack of harmonised measures at eu level creates different safety standards and a consequent loss of competitiveness and innovation in the internal market. on the other hand, materials not covered by specific eu measures may pose a risk to public health and lead to a loss of consumer confidence, legal uncertainty and higher compliance costs for operators. for these reasons, i consider it a priority to draw up specific community measures which can strengthen and harmonise the regulatory framework, ensuring that a level playing field is created and that better controls are carried out in the member states, so that the materials in direct contact with our food are safe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that food safety is an area of the utmost importance for the health of citizens. the need to ensure the control and traceability of packaging, cookware and tableware, with appropriate 'declarations of conformity' certifying that the required standards have been met, requires a joint effort by all eu member states to close the gaps in the testing for safety and public health of materials such as paints, varnishes and inks. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ food contact materials are widely used in everyday life and can sometimes be harmful or otherwise hazardous to human health. we are therefore in favour of greater harmonisation at eu level through specific measures on the most commonly used materials and based on demonstrable scientific data. the report examines the various problems raised by this type of material and is a shared political initiative of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to achieve greater harmonisation in the csfs by a majority of stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the regulation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs (regulation (ec) no 1935/2004), as i believe that while the framework regulation also provides a sound legal basis, its objectives remain relevant; however, the adoption of new specific measures at eu level would encourage operators in the sector to develop safe, reusable and recycled csms, thereby contributing to the union's efforts towards the goal of a better circular economy; stresses that this would require improved traceability and the phasing out of substances in cmrs that could pose a danger to human health. i consider that efsa is performing a risk assessment of substances to be used in cmrs covered by specific measures; is aware of the costs of the risk assessment of a specific substance and of the limited resources of efsa; i therefore hope that the commission will increase the amount of funding it provides to efsa, in view of the additional work resulting from the increased need for risk assessments, relating to new contaminants.
in writing. i am in favour of the implementation of the regulation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. food contact materials (fcms) include utensils, tableware and food packaging, and other tools that are used on a daily basis. these, each depending on its formation, when in contact with food, could transfer chemicals that could have effects on human health. there is a european standard governing the composition and use of mcas for consumer protection. the regulation, which is now in force, was adopted for plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. it is necessary to initiate greater harmonisation at european level, and to review the regulatory framework by implementing the recommendations presented in this report, supporting its implementation towards the achievement of the objectives and towards the protection of the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the health of citizens is, as it should be, at the top of our concerns. the current legislation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs must be reviewed as soon as possible to ensure that these materials do not present health risks. particular attention should be paid to risk assessment, traceability, regulatory effectiveness and controls. these materials are widely used, every day, for food packaging, food preservation, kitchen utensils and so on. depending on their use and chemical composition, they can alter the properties of food and release toxic or endocrine-disrupting substances. it is therefore necessary to develop analytical and toxicological tests to be carried out on these materials in order to ensure the highest degree of safety for consumers and, where possible, to provide for the use of safer alternative materials. at the same time, reuse and recycling should be encouraged as part of the development of the circular economy. i therefore fully support the measures proposed in the report and hope that the commission will put them into practice as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur calls on the commission to review the current regulatory framework in order to facilitate the implementation of the legislation and to better achieve its objectives, namely the protection and protection of the health of consumers and the guarantee of an effective functioning of the internal market. regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 lays down the general safety requirements for all possible materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs (mca). it also provides for the possibility of adopting specific measures for the 17 materials listed in annex i to the framework regulation. this report analyses and develops the following issues in order to address urgently the current shortcomings in the implementation and application of the legislation in force: the risk assessment, traceability, enforcement and compliance checks. a further finding concerns the fact that some member states do not require companies producing or importing mca to officially register their economic activity, which is a significant obstacle to the implementation of appropriate controls. in conclusion, i believe that action at eu level is needed to address the lack of common specific measures and to close the gaps in risk assessment, traceability of compliance and controls. i voted to approve it.
in writing. ‒ with the regulation adopted today, we have set out the general safety requirements for all food contact materials and have also adopted specific measures to be implemented when food comes into contact with 17 specific materials. we cannot let our guard down on food safety, which is why i gave my full support to the text.
in writing. food contact materials (fcms) are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils, tableware, and so on. when coming into contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, different materials may behave differently, transferring their components to food. we in the m5s have fought for the inclusion in the report of an amendment of our own which calls for a ban on the use of bisphenol a, an endocrine disruptor, in all materials in contact with food. there is now a large body of scientific literature which has demonstrated the health damage caused by the ingestion of such and such substances. the current regulation allows agreements on 17 substances, but only four of these are currently harmonised at eu level. the rest is the responsibility of the member states. the lack of harmonised rules causes problems for consumers, businesses and authorities. for us in m5s, this means that the single market is not a single market: some countries have high standards, some countries have low standards. food safety must have the same meaning throughout the eu and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report takes stock of the situation of the infringement procedure system within the european union. in particular, it focuses on the effectiveness of the eu pilot project, which was developed by the commission to prevent possible infringement procedures through a constant exchange of information with the member states, but which does not seem to have been as effective as it should have been. the report also contains some criticism that the commission has not yet implemented many of the european parliament's proposals, in particular a regulation on european administrative law. for the reasons i have already mentioned, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the periodic report on the application of eu rules by member states. i do not agree with what it says: i think that it does not take into account the real problem facing the eu, namely excessive regulation and the continuing attitude of censorship towards national parliaments which are transposing legislation which often has a strong and negative impact on the socioeconomic fabric of their territories. it is enough to think of the damage caused in italy by the directive on services to the seaside resorts and the travel trade. for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission's 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of european union law contains valuable insights. the european union is founded on the rule of law and its institutions must ensure that community policies and priorities are applied uniformly throughout europe. the report shows that the sectors of environment, transport, internal market and services were the ones where the highest number of infringements occurred in 2014. however, the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years: this improvement is due to the introduction of the 'eu pilot' procedure, a mechanism which opens up a constructive dialogue between the commission, the 'guarantor of the treaties', and the member states found to be in breach of european rules, before a formal infringement procedure is opened. the report, which i support, stresses the need for greater transparency in the application of community law and greater involvement of the european parliament. transparency and information on infringement procedures can and must help to strengthen the trust of community citizens in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on monitoring the application of union law because we are aware that it is the timely and correct transposition of eu law into national legislation which enables the intended benefits of eu law to be delivered to individuals. i believe that parliament can support the work of the national parliaments by sharing its expertise in the legislative decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ monitoring the application of eu law shows that there are still many cases where infringement proceedings are open concerning the effective implementation and practical application of eu law. it can therefore be said that the application of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent and that its effectiveness is systematically undermined by its unsatisfactory application by the member states and by unsatisfactory verification by the commission. many of the eu directives, particularly those in the economic and financial fields, have not been transposed by many of the member states. it is often the imposition of unrealistic deadlines for the implementation of legislation that makes it impossible for member states to meet them. financial penalties for non-compliance with union law should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and should take into account the repetition of the failure to comply in the same area. delays in transposition constitute an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal market and are contrary to the interests of citizens and businesses, depriving them of certain of their rights.
in writing. ‒ this year's report focuses on the effectiveness of the 'eu pilot' system, which provides for a continuous exchange of information between the commission and member states in order to prevent possible infringement procedures. the rapporteur stresses in particular that the decrease in the number of infringement procedures could be linked to the steady decrease in appeals lodged by the commission and not to the actual effectiveness of the eu pilot programme. the report also criticises the commission for failing to implement a number of proposals from the european parliament, including the development of a rule to regulate european administrative law.
in writing. ‒ effective and timely application of eu law is a prerequisite for a clear legislative framework and for strengthening the credibility of the european institutions. the report shows that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years, but i think it is necessary to analyse the origins of this outcome. it is difficult to assess to what extent the reduction in the number of infringement procedures actually represents greater respect for the law and better transposition of european standards or rather an increase in compromise solutions between the european commission and the member states. i believe that parliament can play a significant role in assessing the application of the law, but that its access to information on procedures is still too limited to allow it to carry out a thorough review, especially as regards the eu pilot procedure. i therefore join the rapporteur, heidi hautala, in her call for greater transparency and constructive interinstitutional dialogue in facilitating parliament's access to files on cases of breaches of union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which analyses the 2014 report on the application of eu rules by member states. the report is limited in describing the reasons that often lead member states to apply eu legislation beyond the time limits. i believe that the delay in transposing the directive is the result of excessive european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of european union law. in particular, i think it is extremely important to encourage the clarification and transparency of national rules adopted through the transposition of eu law and to specify which national authorities are responsible for their proper implementation. as the rapporteur has pointed out, this is a right which belongs to the citizens of the union, since it is based on the rule of law and the certainty and predictability of the laws. i also believe that there is a need for greater clarity in the relations between parliament and the european commission as regards the eu pilot procedure. finally, i am pleased to note that, in comparison with the statistics in the report, italy's infringements are declining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it provides a comprehensive picture of the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. the three sectors most affected by infringement proceedings in 2014 were the environment, transport and the internal market for services, but the last five years have seen a general decrease in proceedings, also thanks to an effective policy of dialogue with member states.
in writing. ‒ the primary responsibility for the correct implementation and application of eu law lies with the member states. however, the commission has a key role in monitoring the application of eu law and in presenting its annual report to parliament and the council. the european parliament has a decisive role in the political control of the commission's implementing measures. in this context, i believe it is essential to increase the use of certain existing instruments at european level to help improve the application and enforcement of eu law in the member states, in line with the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. in particular, the informal 'eu pilot' mechanism promotes closer and more consistent cooperation between the commission and the member states in order to remedy breaches of eu law at an early stage, so as to avoid having to resort to the formal infringement procedure. i believe that monitoring the effective transposition of eu law into national legislation is a way not only of preventing infringements but also of bringing the expected benefits to citizens and of giving credibility to the european legal system and its institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's annual report to promote the effective implementation of eu law by both candidate and non-candidate countries, as well as countries with association agreements with the eu, and to improve transparency and cooperation. i also supported the report to give parliament a more structured role in the analysis of compliance with eu law.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which makes little mention of the shortcomings of eu hyper-regulation and continues to favour a censorship attitude towards national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ after the vote in the juri committee, we also adopt a report in plenary which makes an important point on the application of european union law. i appreciate the work of mrs hautala, who has highlighted in particular cases of infringements for the non-transposition of eu directives and regulations in the fields of the environment, transport and the internal market, which touch on issues crucial to the lives of so many of our citizens. i think it is useful that the report also stresses the difficulty of parliament being informed about the various infringements and calls for a thorough review of the right of access to all the various cases, it is a crucial point of transparency and democracy.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of european union law. this brings us to the 32nd commission report, which once again provides useful information on the actual implementation of eu law practices. the report shows that the sectors of environment, transport, and internal market and services are the ones with the highest number of infringement procedures in 2014. at the same time, however, the report shows that there has been a decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures over the past five years. however, the report concludes that we should take into account the new proposals made by the administrative law working party in order to improve the application of eu law. it is also recommended that parliament play a more specific role in analysing the procedures for compliance with eu law in the candidate countries and those with association agreements with the union, and that it put in place support plans for the countries involved in this area.
in writing. ‒ respect for eu law must be a priority for the commission, the european institutions in general and, above all, the member states. making this as transparent as possible would increase citizens' trust in the eu, avoiding misunderstandings and manipulations that instead end up fomenting unjustified euroscepticism. the commission is responsible for monitoring the measures taken by the member states and ensuring that their legislation complies with community law. the european parliament, on the other hand, has the responsibility to monitor the commission's monitoring activity and the interest in ensuring that the legislation it produces is actually transposed by the member states. the commission's annual report on monitoring the application of european union law states that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the past five years, thanks to the effectiveness of the structured dialogue between the commission and member states under the eu pilot. the eu pilot system has proved to be a good one, but it is not sufficiently transparent. i therefore share the regret expressed in the report that, despite repeated requests, the commission has still not ensured adequate access to information on the eu pilot procedure and on pending cases before the relevant parliamentary committees.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, in the proper performance of its duties, is called upon to play an active role in the development of various instruments aimed at improving the implementation, application and enforcement of union law in the member states. to this end, in a union based on the rule of law and the certainty and predictability of laws, eu citizens must be able to know in a clear, accessible, transparent and timely manner whether and which national rules have been adopted by transposing eu law and which national authorities are responsible for their correct implementation. it is therefore appropriate to give effect to financial penalties for failure to comply with community law. the rapporteur believes that the proposals made by the new working group on administrative law set up by the legal affairs committee could be a valuable source of inspiration for the commission. i think it is appropriate to highlight that the european parliament should play a more structured role in analysing how the candidate countries for accession, and the countries with association agreements with the european union, comply with eu law. i voted in favour of approving this annual report.
in writing. ‒ the text voted on is the 32nd annual report (for 2014) drawn up by the european parliament after carrying out specific checks on the application of european law between the 28 member states. the analysis carried out shows that the sectors where serious shortcomings persist are the environment, the internal market in transport and services. at the same time, however, infringement procedures have decreased, which shows that the european commission's decision to follow the line of dialogue before sanctions is working.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of european union law. the report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services remain the three sectors with the highest number of infringement proceedings opened in 2014, despite the fact that the number of proceedings has decreased over the past five years. the commission considers that this decrease is due to a more effective dialogue with the member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure, but the report stresses that parliament still has limited access to information on this procedure and on pending cases. it is therefore difficult to see whether the reduction in the number of formal procedures really reflects a greater respect for eu law by member states and not rather an increase in compromise solutions between the commission and non-compliant countries. the aim of this report is therefore to ensure greater transparency in the application of eu law by the member states.
in writing. ‒ the commission has asked efsa to assess whether new elements have emerged that would alter the conclusions and recommendations of efsa's scientific opinions on the cultivation of the genetically modified bt11 maize. this resolution, considering that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, asks the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objections to the marketing for cultivation of two types of genetically modified maize seeds, including bt11. i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. in the case of bt11 maize in particular, the concern is the presence of the cry1ab protein which confers resistance to pyralid from european maize and pyralid from mediterranean maize. there is a risk of harm to some species of butterflies and moths, calling into question the concept of 'acceptable local mortality' introduced by efsa for some lepidopteran species. , i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the marketing authorisation for the cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds because in that resolution we criticise the draft by the commission and we consider its risk management recommendations inadequate. thus, with this vote i called on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified bt11 maize expresses the cry1ab protein, which is a bt protein conferring resistance to european maize pyralid and mediterranean maize pyralid; and the pat protein which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. it should be borne in mind that glufosinate is classified as toxic for reproduction and therefore the cultivation of genetically modified bt11 maize is prohibited in the various territories. it is considered that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law because it is not compatible with the objective of protecting human health and the environment when gmos are deliberately released into the environment for purposes other than placing on the market within the community and when gmos are placed on the market within the community as such or contained in products. the commission should therefore withdraw the draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection today because i believe that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. to date, the safety of genetically modified bt11 maize seeds has not been demonstrated. there are still serious gaps in the data. the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of directive 2001/18/ec which aims, while respecting the precautionary principle, at the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and at the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess whether new elements have emerged that would change the recommendations in efsa's scientific opinions on the placing on the market for the cultivation of genetically modified bt11 maize seeds. the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission considers that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate and therefore requests that the draft implementing decision be withdrawn. i voted in favour of the resolution with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the risk assessment for the placing on the market of genetically modified bt11 maize seeds is not complete and that the commission's recommendations are not adequate. to date, efsa's analysis is still lacking some data on possible contamination that could cause serious harm to farmers. it should be remembered that gmos are currently authorised in the eu by the commission without the support of the opinions of the member states' committees and that bt11 in particular is still banned in many countries of the european union. for these reasons, i believe that the present proposal is not in line with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, and the environment.
in writing. ‒ as a signatory to the objection resolution, i voted in favour, as i believe that until democratic scrutiny of the european commission's decisions has been strengthened and correctly reflects the opinion of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens, no gmos should be authorised. in addition, for the three gm maize, there remains a lack of data and incomplete risk assessment, there are no comprehensive analyses on non-target species such as aquatic insects, risk mitigation measures are inadequate and impracticable, as demonstrated by the definition of 'refuge areas' or 'distances from protected habitats' measures which have proved ineffective, or there remains a strong threat to gmo-free or organic crops, which are threatened by possible contamination.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution containing an objection to the authorisation of a gmo by the commission.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the objection concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds, while acknowledging the importance of the above argument, i do not believe that the objections raised are complete. i therefore intend to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution which strongly calls on the european commission not to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified bt11 maize seeds. it is a gmo designed to express the bt protein which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. glufosinate has been classified as toxic for reproduction and therefore falls within the criteria for exclusion from the market. we are facing a commercial package designed to facilitate greater use of this dangerous herbicide. the european union food safety authority (efsa) also recognised the toxicity of this gmo to non-target butterflies and moths, but ignored the impacts on other species such as ladybirds and aquatic insects. the cultivation of genetically modified bt11 maize has already been banned in many member states and, in accordance with the precautionary principle, it should be banned throughout the eu. since the beginning of my mandate i have always fought to make europe a gmo-free area and with this vote and with this resolution i reiterate a no-no to the entry of transgenic products into european territory.
in writing. ‒ the commission has asked efsa to assess whether new elements have emerged that would alter the conclusions and recommendations of efsa's scientific opinions on the cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507. this resolution, considering that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, asks the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objections to the marketing for the cultivation of two types of genetically modified maize seed, including 1507. i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. in the case of maize 1507 in particular, the concern is the presence of the cry1f protein which confers resistance to maize pyrrholide and to certain other lepidopteran pests such as maize nightshade. there is a risk of harm to some butterfly and moth species, calling into question the concept of 'acceptable local mortality' introduced by efsa for some lepidopteran species. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the marketing authorisation for the cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 because by doing that i called on the commission to withdraw its draft. indeed, i believe that mostly the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission were inadequate.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified maize 1507 expresses the cry1f protein, a bt protein that confers resistance to maize pyralid and other lepidoptera parasites and american pyralid and also expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. glufosinate is classified as toxic to reproduction and, as a result, the cultivation of genetically modified maize 1507 is prohibited in several territories. according to the efsa gmo expert group, the possible evolution of resistance to cry1f protein is a cause for concern as the evolution of resistance could lead to the alteration of pest control practices, with potentially harmful consequences for the environment. however, efsa argues that the currently available data are not sufficient to provide a framework for larval mortality related to bt toxin. however, the risk assessment for cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law because it is not compatible with the objective of protecting human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection today because i believe that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. to date, the safety of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 has not been demonstrated. there are still serious gaps in the data. efsa analysed the possible negative impacts on butterflies and non-target moths, but ignored the impacts on other species, such as ladybirds. the cultivation of this gmo would bring with it environmental threats that are difficult to manage and would undermine actions to improve environmental risk assessment for all gmos, as already unanimously requested by environment ministers in 2008. no gmo should be authorised until democratic scrutiny of commission decisions has been strengthened and properly reflects the views of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess whether new elements have emerged that would change the recommendations in efsa's scientific opinions on the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize seed 1507. the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission considers that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate and therefore requests that the draft implementing decision be withdrawn. i voted in favour of the resolution with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ although efsa has stated that the marketing of maize seed 1507 is not harmful to human health, food safety or biodiversity, i believe that the risk assessment is incomplete. it should be recalled that the european parliament has already spoken out against a possible authorisation by the european commission for the cultivation of transgenic maize and that currently gmos are authorised in the eu by the commission without the support of the opinions of the committees of the member states. in my view, it is a matter of priority to take account of the precautionary principle in approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and in protecting human health and the environment, at least until risk assessment methods have been improved.
in writing. ‒ as a signatory to the objection resolution, i voted in favour, as i believe that until democratic scrutiny of the european commission's decisions has been strengthened and correctly reflects the opinion of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens, no gmos should be authorised. in addition, for the three gm maize, there remains a lack of data and incomplete risk assessment, there are no comprehensive analyses on non-target species such as aquatic insects, risk mitigation measures are inadequate and impracticable, as demonstrated by the definition of 'refuge areas' or 'distances from protected habitats' measures which have proved ineffective, or there remains a strong threat to gmo-free or organic crops, which are at risk of possible contamination.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution containing an objection to the authorisation of a gmo by the commission.
in writing. ‒ regarding the objection concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507, while acknowledging the importance of this argument, i do not feel that i fully support the proposal presented. i therefore intend to abstain.
in writing. the parliament's resolution, which i voted in favour of, calls on the european commission not to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507. corn 1507 has been genetically engineered to produce bt toxin, which is lethal to some pests. efsa, the european union food safety authority, has recognised the toxicity of this gmo to butterflies and moths and warned of possible deficiencies in the tests carried out on maize 1507. the negative consequences of the introduction of such organisms into the wild for both the ecosystem and human health are unpredictable. if that were not enough, those who grow gm corn can easily contaminate not only their neighbors but also fields miles away, causing economic damage to other farmers. the only way to eliminate the problem of gmo contamination is to ban gmos. as a spokesman for the five star movement, i believe in a europe free of genetically modified organisms, which really protects the biodiversity of agri-foodstuffs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ the commission has asked efsa to assess whether new elements have emerged that would change the conclusions and recommendations of efsa's scientific opinions on the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810. this resolution, considering that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate, asks the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objection to the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810 seed. i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. in particular, in the case of maize mon 810, the efsa assessment of seeds of this maize species lacks some data which lead to doubts as to the possible cross-contamination of an invasive plant carrying the toxin bacillus thuringiensis (bt), used as a pesticide. in view of the possible high risks to farmers and the environment, i decided to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810 seed.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution on the commission's decision renewing the authorisation for the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds because we have called on the commission to withdraw it. i believe that the commission’s draft was not consistent with union law that ensures a high level of protection of human life and health.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified maize mon 810 expresses the cry1ab protein, derived from bacillus thuringiensis, which confers protection against certain species of lepidopteran parasites, including maize pyralid and maize nightshade. the placing on the market for cultivation of seeds of genetically modified maize mon 810 was initially authorised by commission decision. unfortunately, there are still persistent shortcomings in the implementation of post-market environmental monitoring; and efsa is forced to constantly reiterate its monitoring recommendations, in particular the need to provide more detailed information on the sampling methodology, to reduce the risk of bias in the selection of the questionnaires for farmers, as well as to ensure the identification of all relevant scientific publications. however, the risk assessment of efsa on cultivation is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection today because i believe that the risk assessment of the cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete. in addition, the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon810 seeds threatens the non-gm organic and conventional farming in europe. under the new eu rules on the use of gmos, once a gmo is authorised for use in europe as a food or feed, member states have the option of whether or not to allow a particular gmo to be used in their food chain (opt-out measures). unfortunately, member states that have not chosen to use opt-out measures to prohibit the cultivation of specific gmos on their territory have generally not applied effective measures to prevent contamination of non-gmo or organic maize. spain, for example, where most of the gmo maize in europe is grown, has no specific rules regarding isolation distances, buffer zones or mandatory information for authorities or adjacent growers. experience shows that it is almost impossible for organic and conventional farmers to grow maize in areas where gm mon810 maize is produced. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess whether new elements have emerged that would change the recommendations in efsa's scientific opinions on the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds. the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission considers that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate and therefore requests that the draft implementing decision be withdrawn. i voted in favour of the resolution with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ to date, some data on possible contamination that could cause serious harm to farmers are still missing from efsa's analysis. i therefore consider that the risk assessment for the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seed is not complete and that the commission's recommendations are not adequate. it should be recalled that gmos are currently authorised in the eu by the commission without the support of the opinions of the member states' committees and that mon 810 in particular is still banned in many countries of the european union. for these reasons, i believe that the present proposal is not able to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment.
in writing. ‒ as a signatory to the objection resolution, i voted in favour, as i believe that until democratic scrutiny of the european commission's decisions has been strengthened and correctly reflects the opinion of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens, no gmos should be authorised. in addition, for the three gm maize, there remains a lack of data and incomplete risk assessment, there are no comprehensive analyses on non-target species such as aquatic insects, risk mitigation measures are inadequate and impracticable, as demonstrated by the definition of 'refuge areas' or 'distances from protected habitats' measures which have proved ineffective, or there remains a strong threat to gmo-free or organic crops, which are threatened by possible contamination.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution containing an objection to the authorisation of a gmo by the commission.
in writing. ‒ even taking into account the aspects of the objection submitted, concerning the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810 seed, i do not feel that i fully support the proposal. i therefore intend to abstain.
in writing. once again we must fight to prevent the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810. it's a genetically modified corn that's tolerant to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium. herbicide that has been classified as toxic for reproduction and therefore meets the criteria that should lead to its exclusion from the renewal of the marketing authorisation in 2017. the consequences are so unpredictable and potentially disastrous that it has already been banned in many member states. gmos are a matter of concern to a few, big biotech companies versus small local farmers. a person who grows genetically modified corn can easily contaminate not only his neighbors but also fields miles away, causing economic damage to other farmers. i am fighting for agriculture that safeguards local excellence by creating economic returns for farmers and the land and by voting in favour of this resolution, which i am sponsoring with my colleagues in the m5s, i reiterate a no to genetically modified organisms in europe.
in writing. ‒ the legislative proposal of 22 april 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 was rejected by parliament on 28 october 2015 on the grounds that, while the cultivation of gmos necessarily takes place within the territory of a member state, their trade crosses borders, meaning that a national ban on 'sale and use' proposed by the commission would be impossible to apply without reintroducing border controls on imports. the resolution therefore calls for the withdrawal of the commission's draft implementing decision as it is not in line with union law, being incompatible with ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objection to the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810. i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. in the case of maize mon 810, in particular, the problem is the presence of the cry1ab protein, derived from bacillus thuringiensis, which confers protection against predation by certain lepidopteran parasites. the lack of long-term studies on nutrition and toxicity and insufficient risk assessment led me to vote in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810 seed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's decision renewing the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810 products because i stand for the protection of human life and health and the commission's draft does not ensure the respect of those values and therefore does not respect union law.
in writing. ‒ the genetically modified maize mon 810 produces the cry1ab protein, derived from bacillus thuringiensis, which confers protection against predation by certain lepidopteran parasites, including maize pyralid and maize nightshade. the draft commission implementing decision was voted on in the standing committee without an opinion being delivered. the same was true in the appeal committee, where 12 member states were in favour, 11 member states were against, 4 member states abstained and 1 member state was absent. the two main reasons for the member states' voting against or abstentions were the lack of long-term studies on nutrition and toxicity and insufficient risk assessment. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the commission is therefore requested to withdraw the draft implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal to take account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection today because i believe that the risk assessment of the cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete. in addition, the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon810 threatens european non-gm organic and conventional farming. under the new eu rules on the use of gmos, once a gmo is authorised for use in europe as a food or feed, member states have the option of whether or not to allow a particular gmo to be used in their food chain (opt-out measures). unfortunately, member states that have not chosen to use opt-out measures to prohibit the cultivation of specific gmos on their territory have generally not applied effective measures to prevent contamination of non-gmo or organic maize. spain, for example, where most of the gmo maize in europe is grown, has no specific rules regarding isolation distances, buffer zones or mandatory information for authorities or adjacent growers. experience shows that it is almost impossible for organic and conventional farmers to grow maize in areas where gm mon810 maize is produced. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess whether new elements have emerged that would change the recommendations of efsa's scientific opinions on the renewal of the marketing authorisation for the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds. the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission considers that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate and therefore requests that the draft implementing decision be withdrawn. i voted in favour of the resolution with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the commission's recommendations are not adequate and that a new legislative proposal should be put forward which takes greater account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level and which do not relate only to issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment. i therefore expressed my opposition to the authorisation of existing foods, food ingredients and feed produced from mon 810 maize on the placing on the market of maize products. it should be recalled that mon 810 maize is still banned in many countries of the european union due to the lack of long-term studies on nutrition and toxicity and insufficient risk assessment.
in writing. ‒ as a signatory to the objection resolution, i voted in favour, as i believe that until democratic scrutiny of the european commission's decisions has been strengthened and correctly reflects the opinion of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens, no gmos should be authorised. in addition, for the three gm maize, there remains a lack of data and incomplete risk assessment, there are no comprehensive analyses on non-target species such as aquatic insects, risk mitigation measures are inadequate and impracticable, as demonstrated by the definition of 'refuge areas' or 'distances from protected habitats' measures which have proved ineffective, or there remains a strong threat to gmo-free or organic crops, which are threatened by possible contamination.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution containing an objection to the authorisation of a gmo by the commission.
in writing. ‒ even taking into account the aspects of the objection submitted, concerning the renewal of the authorisation for genetically modified maize mon 810, i do not feel that i fully support the proposal. i therefore intend to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution which strongly calls on the european commission not to authorise the placing on the market of products made from genetically modified maize mon 810. since the beginning of my mandate i have always fought to make europe a gmo-free territory, without ifs and without buts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transgenic food and feed is not introduced into the european territory without any prior authorization. the lack of long-term studies on the nutrition and toxicity of gmos and insufficient risk assessment has led many member states to ban the cultivation of these organisms on their national territory. but if the cultivation necessarily takes place in the territory of a member state, their trade crosses borders, which means that a national ban on 'sale and use' proposed by the commission would be impossible to apply without reintroducing border controls on imports. if the authorization is renewed, millions of tonnes of gm feed will be circulating in europe, feeding our animals and indirectly feeding us. i have fought with my colleagues in the m5s for a europe free of gmos by promoting this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the legislative proposal of 22 april 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 was rejected by parliament on 28 october 2015 on the grounds that, while the cultivation of gmos necessarily takes place within the territory of a member state, their trade crosses borders, meaning that a national ban on 'sale and use' proposed by the commission would be impossible to apply without reintroducing border controls on imports. the resolution therefore calls for the withdrawal of the commission's draft implementing decision as it is not in line with union law, being incompatible with ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913. i believe that the current regulatory framework does not allow the commission and efsa to provide adequate assessments of the impact of gmos. in the case of cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913, in particular, the problem is the presence of the modified cp4 5-enolpiruvil-shikimate-3-phosphate synthase protein (cp4 epsps), which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides, a substance that the international agency for research on cancer has listed as a probable human carcinogen. in view of the possible health risks, i therefore voted in favour of the objection, reaffirming the need for the commission to draw up a comprehensive proposal on gmos as soon as possible in order to carefully assess the environmental and health impact of these technologies and to establish a new procedure for their authorization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the option of placing genetically modified cotton on the market, rejecting the commission’s draft. following this vote i hope the commission will submit a new legislative proposal that will address other national concerns not related only to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
in writing. ‒ genetically modified cotton expresses the pat protein, which confers tolerance to glufosinate-ammonium herbicides; the cp4 protein epsps, which confers tolerance to glyphosate-based herbicides; and the cry1f and cry1ac proteins, which confer protection against certain lepidopterans. in addition, in 2015, the international agency for research on cancer included glyphosate on its list of probable human carcinogens. the draft commission implementing decision was voted on in the standing committee without any opinion being given, as was the same in the appeal committee. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the commission is therefore asked to submit a new legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection today because i believe that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are inadequate. several studies on the cultivation of gmo cotton have raised serious concerns about the safety of this type of cotton. a recent report found that thousands of sheep and goats in new zealand died after burning up on land where gmo cotton was grown. moreover, the gmo cotton crops have proved to be a failure in india. i would also recall that on 16 december 2015 the european parliament declared the gmo approval system 'non-functional' and added that 'any implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms ... should be suspended. 'no gmo should be authorised until democratic scrutiny of commission decisions has been strengthened and correctly reflects the opinion of the majority of member states, meps and european citizens. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw the draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess whether new elements have emerged that would change the recommendations of efsa's scientific opinions on the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913. the european parliament resolution on the draft implementing decision of the european commission considers that the risk assessment of cultivation carried out by efsa is incomplete and that the risk management recommendations proposed by the european commission are inadequate and therefore requests that the draft implementing decision be withdrawn. i voted in favour of the resolution with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the commission's recommendations are not adequate and that a new legislative proposal should be put forward which takes greater account of the concerns frequently expressed at national level and which do not relate only to issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment. at present the risk assessment for the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton seeds of genetically modified maize 281-24-236x 3006-210-23x mon 88913 does not appear to be complete and the commission's recommendations do not appear to be adequate. in my view, it is a matter of priority to take account of the precautionary principle in approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and in protecting human health and the environment, at least until risk assessment methods have been improved.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution which proposes an objection to the authorisation of a gmo by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the objection concerning the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton and on as many resolutions concerning the placing on the market or renewal of authorisations for genetically modified seeds and maize, on the basis of as many requests for objections from the envi committee of the ep, as i consider that the related proposals for authorisation decisions made by the european commission are not firstly consistent with eu legislation and secondly incompatible with the objectives of regulation no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed. i have therefore strongly supported the withdrawal of these decisions and the request to the european commission to submit new legislative proposals on the basis of the tfeu.
in writing. ‒ regarding the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913, while acknowledging the scope of the above argument, i do not feel that i fully support the proposal presented. i therefore intend to abstain.
in writing. by voting in favour of this resolution i have decided to express a firm no to the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton. the genetically modified cotton in question has been engineered to express certain proteins that confer tolerance to glufosinate-ammonium and glyphosate-based herbicides. the international agency for research on cancer (the world health organization's specialized agency for cancer) has included glyphosate in its list of probable human carcinogens. it is clear that we are facing a commercial package designed to facilitate greater use of these dangerous herbicides. gmos are a matter of interest to a few and an unnecessary and unacceptable risk that offers significant benefits only to the companies that patent them. i believe in a europe free of gmos, which protects the health of the people and not the interests of biotechnology multinationals, and i have expressed that in my vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully understand the position and the situation regarding malta airport and the incident that took place there and the rapporteur who rightly wants to speak in the plenary. the problem is that by shifting the debate to the afternoon on such an important subject as the semester debate, we are going to reduce speaking time considerably. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the union. so i am in favour of moving it, but not of halving the time if that implies moving it, and that is why i am against keeping this line, thank you.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of living in a community if the rules are not the same for everyone? the european union is also a customs union: there are no frontiers between countries, only external frontiers, so that goods entering the romanian customs area arrive without controls on the italian market and vice versa. it is therefore important that european customs apply similar procedures, controls and sanctions. the european parliament is about to adopt by a large majority a directive to harmonize the framework of customs sanctions. at present, those who do not comply with the rules have to pay a fine, and if this fine varies according to the country, of course, they will bring the goods in where they pay less if they are "tipped". the penalties must therefore be harmonised: the european parliament is almost unanimous on this, but some eastern european countries, led by germany and the netherlands, are blocking it because they have no intention of changing things, or rather because it is in their interest not to change. the customs issue is not just a question of sanctions, but also of controls and procedures. i will be reporting to the inta committee on a major process of reflection on the future of european customs, and i believe that the unblocking of this dossier is essential to continue. i am tired, frankly, and i think many, many citizens are tired of a europe where everyone eats, but only some pay the bill. a europe of solidarity only when it suits you: the economy, immigration, taxation and now customs. it is time to say enough to those who use the union for their own interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the primary objective of this directive is to harmonize at european union level the different national rules on customs infringements and the resulting penalties. the ineffectiveness of customs controls at key points of entry to the single market is now facilitating the movement of illegal goods throughout the union. for example, some major european seaports are too easy a landing for counterfeit goods. the achievement of a genuine customs union is hampered by the fragmentation and heterogeneity of rules and standards which prevent the proper functioning of the european single market and put citizens and consumers at risk. in this connection, we welcome the fact that the determination of penalties should be linked, where possible, to the principle of evasion of duty in order to ensure that they are more closely linked to the seriousness of the infringement. the future of the european economy will depend to a large extent on how our continent manages to establish trade relations with other parts of the globe. but all this requires a legal framework that is fully complementary to the principles and best practices of the wto, which on the one hand facilitates trade with third countries and on the other guarantees the repression of all those illegal activities that put our security and competitiveness at risk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that there is such a broad consensus, as the commissioner has heard, on the subject we are discussing, because i believe that the customs union is objectively a pillar of the single market. we shall discuss at other times and for other measures the importance of giving this part of the world rules which are convergent, overcoming the differences which have historically been brought to the present day in each individual country and above all we shall try to make visible an idea of a european union in which diversities are overcome. one of the most serious and dangerous differences is precisely the one which still exists, but which we are trying to overcome, namely the differences in the identification of customs infringements and then the sanctions which each country decides to apply as it wishes. the progress we are proposing is therefore of the utmost importance. i would remind you that sanctions have two positive effects. the first is ethical: the wrongdoer must pay and must pay in proportion to the error he makes or the violation he knowingly brings into play. on the other hand, the penalty has a deterrent effect: those who are bent on doing evil know that they must pay, and for this reason sometimes change direction. one final thought: we have to hurry. the present situation is such that it produces distortions of competition, just as the lack of uniform tax behaviour does.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union and the pillar of the single market, there is still no integrated approach to the application of customs legislation, including penalties. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. the establishment of a legal framework on customs infringements and sanctions is essential to improve the convergence of member states' approaches to the application of the customs legislation of the european union. however, much will depend on how the member states interpret the directive. real-time compliance monitoring by means of information technology requires close cooperation between operators to ensure full compliance with, and implementation by, the member states of the provisions on electronic systems contained in the union customs code. member states should respect the commitment to participate in a common risk management system: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the penalties are effective.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the iran nuclear agreement is certainly a great diplomatic success, bringing back to the negotiating table a regional player as vital to the balance of power in the middle east as iran, perhaps one of the few successes of recent years. and our vote will certainly be a positive one, a vote of encouragement for the steps forward that the current executive led by haroni is taking in the country. a vote that does not forget the serious situation of human rights, that does not forget the use of the death penalty even on minors, although, remember, that is certainly not the country with the highest number in the world, that is china, but it seems that many forget when talking about the example of the chinese mes; it also does not forget censorship and it does not forget holocaust denial. but we need a positive attitude, an attitude which led to the conclusion of the treaty itself, an attitude which we must preserve if the moderate wing is to prevail in its battle against the conservative wing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the rapporteur, mr howitt, i would like to express my support for a report which is moving in the right direction: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a european parliament position which supports the valuable work of high representative federica mogherini, who described the nuclear agreement, of which this report is in some ways a child, as a sign of hope for the world at a time when hope seems to be in crisis. that agreement is based on respect for rules which must be carefully monitored. but that is not enough. we must now create a climate of mutual trust between iran and the european union. relations must be developed through a multi-level dialogue involving political, diplomatic, economic, academic, technical, interpersonal contacts, including civil society actors, ngos and human rights advocates. a dialogue, it was said, of broad scope, open, frank, critical, when necessary. we have common economic interests, and i am thinking in particular of the fight against climate change. iran ranks second in the world for gas reserves, fourth for oil. energy cooperation can play a significant role in diversifying the sources of supply for the european union. the union can support iran in its various environmental challenges, including water scarcity, the fight against desertification. we are confidently investing in young europeans and iranians to bring societies and cultures closer together, increasing exchanges between students and researchers. i would like to read out the european parliament's invitation to the house contained in the report: 'calls on iran to respect, protect and fulfil its commitments under the constitution of the islamic republic of iran, the international covenant on civil and political rights, the convention on the rights of the child, the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, respecting freedom of expression, opinion, association, thought, conscience and religion without discrimination on the basis of ethnic or social origin or sexual orientation.' on this basis - i am finished, mr president - we can work together to ensure peace and stability in the middle east, to fight terrorism and to prevent the tragedy of millions of refugees.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as many colleagues have mentioned, the agreement signed in july 2015 represents a unique opportunity to try to bring iran into an international context. we cannot afford to lose this opportunity, because without iran there would be no real possibility of creating a security structure in that part of the world. it's not gonna be easy. the issues to be addressed are those which have been mentioned, some of which have already been resolved positively at least in the first impact, and others, on the other hand, will have to be re-visited to arrive at definitive solutions. i personally believe that as far as the human rights issue is concerned, this is objectively the priority of our future work. the question of capital punishment, the situation of children and women, freedom of expression and religion are the keys to a future which is not only shared but which has the features and characteristics of a civilization which helps to ensure security not only at home but for the whole world. so, that's something we're gonna have to work on. but we must appreciate the progress that has been made in these sensitive areas. the report has a positive aspect which must be acknowledged and which must be adopted with conviction. i would add, finally, that we must concentrate in future on the relationship between the parliaments of the european states and that of iran: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the historic nuclear agreement signed last year in vienna was an important milestone in international diplomacy and in the process of de-escalation of relations between iran and the west. this is a remarkable achievement for multilateral diplomacy, and for european diplomacy in particular, which was achieved thanks, perhaps above all, to the work and tenacity of the high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini. this should not only lead to a significant improvement in relations between the european union and iran, but also to the promotion of stability in the whole region. if respected, this agreement can be a good guide for building a new era of peaceful relations between the european union and iran, a former important trading partner, but for this to happen it is essential that iran promote the new era of respect for rights and freedoms, starting with a moratorium on executions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 25 october, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by laura ferrara, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution (2015/2110(ini)) (a8-0284/2016).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is taking a significant step forward today. to combat the spread of corruption and organised crime effectively, a debate at european level was needed to introduce common laws and measures to combat it in all member states. this europe has been guilty of a grave crime: the fight against corruption and organised crime, including mafia-style crime, has been confined to strictly national borders. the lack of awareness of the transnational scope of this phenomenon has thus given easy play to the mafia and, more generally, to criminal organizations which, also taking advantage of corruption, have identified new businesses by infiltrating the management of migrant reception centres or by seizing tenders financed with european funds or by investing in the main financial centres, thus benefiting from the lack of recognition of the dangers of the association phenomenon in some member states. this calls for urgent and decisive regulatory action at european level to stop the spread of criminal organisations across the continent, to combat the most common crimes committed by mafias and to prevent the infiltration of criminal associations into the legal economy. the european parliament is doing its part with great commitment and conviction, amidst a thousand difficulties arising above all from cultural and legal differences, from the prejudices against the various forms of criminal organizations rooted in the member states. the way was paved during the last parliamentary term, and we are now completing it, not only to introduce a common concept of the crime of association with mafia-type criminals, but above all to adopt a shared and effective strategy to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it is hoped that the other european institutions will also fully understand the real dangers of these phenomena, which are now transnational, and that they will not only focus on the fine crimes but also become aware of the dangers of membership of the association. these are phenomena which are not only affecting the legal economy but also the whole of civil society on which the european union is based. ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank my shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation and the interesting and productive discussions that have taken place during all the meetings. let me also thank the european parliament's research centre for its study on the costs of the european union's failure to act in the fight against corruption and organised crime, which was essential in providing us with the information and objective basis for the preparation of the report. a special thanks goes to eurojust for responding to the questionnaire we sent and providing us with important information on how to improve cooperation and the exchange of information between member states. i would also like to thank europol for the many meetings that have taken place and for the valuable information it has provided, particularly on the more practical aspects of coordination between the different procedures in the individual countries and on how to overcome the difficulties encountered. the european commission is to be thanked for always being available for discussions and debates on the fight against corruption and organised crime. a special thanks goes to those citizens who contributed to the drafting of the report on the internet and in particular on the rousseau portal of the 5 star movement, thus taking an interest in first person and providing us with important suggestions. i would also like to thank all those who have tabled a number of amendments to the report, which also show that the issue is a matter of great concern at transnational level and is not a national phenomenon. i thank the rapporteurs for the opinions of the deve and cont committees and i thank, let me thank, all the staff, young and old, and all the staff who, believing in the work being done, have contributed passionately to the work of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, organized crime is undoubtedly a global threat and as such it requires a joint and well-balanced response from the european union and the member states. due to the evolution of the modus operandi of criminal organisations, the complexity of this phenomenon and the danger of infiltration into the business, institutional and political fabric of the member states has not yet been fully realised. some european legislation should therefore be interpreted in such a way as to restrict the activities of whistleblowers. the latter play a major role in the fight against corruption and their work is of fundamental importance in preventing or detecting illegal acts. it is of the utmost importance that the european union insist on combating organised crime and that, as part of a genuine and comprehensive european anti-corruption strategy, efforts and resources be focused on combating money laundering, corruption and human trafficking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with mr ferrara's report the european parliament is once again shining a spotlight on a phenomenon, corruption, which has extended its sphere of influence beyond national borders. the crim committee has helped to bring the debate on the fight against corruption to the international stage by providing clear guidance on legislative action to be taken. but the answers we expect from the union can only be obtained by starting from a common definition of organised crime, which is essential to give effect to existing and future legislative instruments. today we are operating in a heterogeneous environment, not only in terms of the definition of the phenomenon but also in terms of the provisions for combating it, which are even absent in some countries, which makes it more difficult to combat organized crime and corruption. i am convinced that this issue should be addressed in the framework of cooperation in criminal matters within the union by working on the mutual recognition of confiscation and seizure orders. and to hit the real centre of interest of organised crime, the most concrete action is the freezing and confiscation of assets from crime, although unfortunately many states have not yet transposed the relevant 2014 directive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 25 october, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by ms marie-christine vergiat, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights and migration in third countries (2015/2316(ini)) (a8-0245/2016).
mrs vergiat, i will answer the question you asked. the problem of translation was known to everyone, but i will also inform the presidency of your request to check again what has happened. interventions on request
mr president, the exceptional wave of migration sweeping europe requires urgent, concrete responses commensurate with the gravity of the situation: it is time for the member states of the union to work towards giving europe a strategic horizon by promoting an integrated european policy on migration. the majority of these people are forced to flee their countries because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and poverty, and are often subjected to various forms of violence on their way to the countries of transit. it is essential to improve the exchange of good practices with third countries by providing training for humanitarian workers so that they can more effectively identify the particularities, backgrounds and different experiences of migrants, in particular the most vulnerable. in short, if the european union is to tackle the problem of migration in an appropriate and coherent way, it must be able to build a genuine common partnership with third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i actually asked to speak on the previous point, mrs ferrara's report. but i take this opportunity to congratulate mrs vergiat on her good work, which is in addition to other work already done by the libe committee on immigration, work which has been approved, work which has also been supported by the committee, but which unfortunately has never led to anything concrete. and we still find ourselves today, after so many debates and so many acts, with the same problem: the european union is not a single-minded body, and therefore it is subject to the decisions of individual member states. that said, i thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 25 october, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by ignazio corrao, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the responsibility of companies for serious human rights violations in third countries (2015/2315(ini)) (a8-0243/2016).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report calls on the european parliament to take a stand on an urgent matter and to set in motion a legislative process leading to concrete and effective responses in this area. the issue of corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries, which are still governed by ineffective rules, affects many of the fundamental human rights, such as the protection of health and the environment or the rights of workers, children and women. the main objective of this report is to ensure that urgent, coherent, continuous and effective action is taken at all levels, by addressing in concrete terms the legal problems arising from the multinational nature of enterprises and their activities. this dimension is one of the reasons for the frequent uncertainty about the attribution of responsibility for human rights violations, and this is precisely what all too often leads to impunity for the perpetrators of such violations. the report i am presenting in this house today, which has been my work for the last year, calls loudly for the introduction of binding rules which reiterate the duty of business to respect human rights wherever and however. it called for the introduction of rules which reiterate the obligation of states to protect, within their jurisdiction, natural persons who have suffered or may suffer human rights violations, including when committed outside their own territory. we therefore call on the member states to establish clear rules to ensure that companies domiciled in their territory, and operating within their jurisdiction, respect human rights in all their activities and in every country and context in which they operate. we strongly emphasise that where there are allegations of serious human rights violations, member states must ensure that victims have access to effective redress, as has been repeatedly called for by all the ngos and all the civil society and academic actors we have involved in the preparation of the report. we also call for the creation of minimum criminal standards defining cases and sanctions also for cases of human rights violations by companies with a transnational dimension. i would like to emphasize one of the many zero-cost but extremely effective measures proposed in the report i am signing. i am referring to the creation of a european 'abuse free' brand which could represent a major change in the corporate culture. a trademark granted to companies which voluntarily apply for it and which therefore decide to submit to effective and rigorous controls by independent bodies. this will enable consumers to make informed choices. all these issues have been the subject of a long, constructive and passionate debate between the political parties. i am proud that a report on a potentially divisive subject has been adopted almost unanimously in the committee on foreign affairs. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable contribution and for the willingness they have shown in recent months to help draft a good parliamentary report on such an important subject. finally, i would like to thank all the activists of the five star movement and all the citizens who have wanted to participate in the drafting of this report. thanks to the rousseau operating system, which allows its members to participate in the political life of the network, many citizens have had the opportunity to learn about this draft report and to express their views. all their comments have been carefully considered and some of them have been converted into amendments to my signature and have been incorporated into the text voted in committee. it is direct democracy, where the citizen becomes an institution and participates in the construction of a law or a report of initiative. this report will be voted on tomorrow by this house in the hope that it will be only the beginning of a real path towards an effective and concrete fight against human rights violations committed by companies in third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, i would say periodically, cases of human rights violations in third countries by multinational companies and european groups are being discovered. this is particularly serious, because, since the european union is founded, among other things, on respect for human rights, european companies should set an example in the world in the field of corporate responsibility. i share the document. i only regret that the text has not dealt more deeply with the issue of child labour, which is still widespread in some parts of the world. for example, an amnesty international study found that 16 multinational electronics companies are customers of companies that produce batteries using cobalt from mines in the democratic republic of congo, where some 40,000 children work. it is therefore necessary that all companies, european and non-european, exercise what is known as 'due diligence' and that all countries have clear rules for respecting human rights in business activities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 the rights of workers around the world have been weakened, not only by worsening working conditions, but also by restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly. one issue, that of labour exploitation, involves the responsibilities of governments and companies, the latter often guilty of very serious violations of workers' rights. in the middle east and africa, millions of workers live in conditions of slavery. in many non-european countries, workers do not enjoy the right to strike, they face restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly and are often the victims of physical violence and threats. the european union must work to ensure that trade and human rights can both be strengthened. the business community, particularly in third countries, is obliged to respect human rights in all their forms. the union must be able to establish a trade and investment policy with third countries based not only on market requirements but also on ethical values.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 25 october, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr andrás gyürk, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage (2015/2059(ini)) (a8-0278/2016).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a european union strategy on liquefied natural gas would help to achieve a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to end dependence on external gas suppliers. however, the fact that the existing lng infrastructure in the european union is significantly under-utilized and that the demand for gas continues to be overestimated is not a secondary consideration in this assessment. ex ante impact assessments on the actual added value of the construction of new lng transport and storage infrastructure should be carried out, taking into account the potential for optimising the efficient and safe use of existing storage infrastructure, including gas storage. i believe that the european union and its member states should focus more on renewable resources and energy efficiency improvements, seeking to maximise the benefit of renewable generation capacity and limiting investment in new infrastructure for the transport and storage of lng to areas of low interconnection and to supplying the most vulnerable member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 25 october, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, effective control of fishing activities is essential to ensure the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and to maintain a level playing field between the fleets of the european union. unfortunately, it must be pointed out that the diversity of the fields of application of controls and the places where they are carried out in fact have discriminatory effects with regard to controls. in some member states, controls are carried out from the vessel to the table, while in others only certain links in the chain are checked, excluding, for example, the transport of catches or catering. there are too many provisions on the control of fishing activities, some of which are even contradictory, and there are too many derogations and exceptions. it would therefore be desirable to simplify and revise regulation no 1224 in order to establish a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy and to improve the implementation of the rules in the various member states, in particular by encouraging greater harmonisation of the rules. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, isabelle thomas.
member of the commission. – mr president, we greatly appreciate the report by isabelle thomas and the work of the rapporteur, the shadows and their teams. effective fisheries control is indispensable if we want to improve the governance of the oceans and we, the european union, can only make a credible case for effective controls outside the eu if our own record is clean. therefore the commission is now evaluating the regulation on control of fisheries for assessing its implementation and the impact on the common fisheries policy five years after its entry into force. this makes the report very well timed and useful, as it complements the work carried out by the commission. the findings and recommendations of the report will feed into our own work and will be taken into consideration in conceiving the next actions needed for improving the current system of control of fisheries. the regulation on control of fisheries, which entered into force in 2010, changed significantly the previous control system, introducing the use of new technologies, a new management system and new principles and obligations. thanks to this reform, the fishery control system has improved, and this has led to an overall increase in compliance with the common fisheries policy. however, if some good results have been achieved, still more should be done. preliminary assessment of the regulation on control of fisheries shows that, while there is a good legal framework, improvements can be made, particularly on its implementation by the member states. in brief, the report stresses that the different implementation in the member states and their diverse commitment in its application hinder – as was said by a number of speakers – the level playing field among operators and therefore their confidence in the system and respect of the rules. the implementation by member states greatly differs in the sanctioning system and control procedures and methods in the management of control, the training of inspectors, technologies and tools used, it development and data sharing and exchange. all these have been noted. the principles embedded in the report go very much in the same direction as the commission’s policy. we all recognise that having a uniform and harmonised control system of fisheries contributes to ensuring a level playing field of operators across europe. this is important, not only in terms of treatment, but in the very end fundamental for ensuring sustainable fishing. compliance with the common fisheries policy (cfp) cannot be achieved without awareness and support from fishermen and, in order to achieve this, we need to have their trust and cooperation. we agree with the report on the importance of continuing to fight illegal fishing and to strengthen the quality, completeness and reliability of catch data. we also agree on the underlying need to strengthen collaboration between member states themselves and also between member states, the commission and the european fisheries control agency, including the need to share control data in real time. the contribution of the european fisheries control agency to the level playing field in the control of fisheries is critical. their activities and operational coordination, development of standards and training are greatly appreciated by all stakeholders. compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy is improving. its enforcement relies on a comprehensive and sound control system with dissuasive, proportionate and effective sanctions applied by member states. so effective actions by member states remain essential. let me thank you once again for this report and the fruitful discussion. we look forward to further working with the parliament in a good spirit of cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ten-t guidelines for a connecting europe facility have laid the foundations for the implementation of the eu's transport infrastructure policy for the period 2020-2030. the member states of the european union will therefore have to cooperate in a fruitful way to complete the strategic core network by 2030 and the global network by 2050. however, serious gaps in accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure remain throughout the central and eastern european union and it is important to address this issue in a short time, particularly in rural areas and border regions, in an attempt to stem the progressive decline in population. i believe that sustainable transport links should be seen as a factor in promoting the security and stability of the eastern border of the european union and the western balkans. the achievement of the ten-t objectives requires the completion of the missing links and, consequently, the removal of obstacles for passengers and freight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good evening commissioner vella, i am glad you are here tonight because i would like to talk about access to environmental justice, starting with a concrete case. on 5 october, the administrative court of the lombardy region declared inadmissible the appeal brought by the citizens' association zibido san giacomo against a measure authorizing the construction of a well for hydrocarbon exploration. the court ruled that the action was inadmissible on the ground of lack of interest and active legitimacy, and that the association was occasional and did not appear to be representative of the local community. this approach is based on a rather strict case law. however, it omits any reference to the requirements laid down by italian law which associations must satisfy in order to obtain standing before the court. i therefore ask myself, and i ask you, and i ask you, commissioner, what space do we give to environmental requests coming from below and is access to environmental justice really guaranteed in europe, because obviously in italy, it is not so at present.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a recent analysis by the national observatory on the health of the italian regions shows that campania is the region with the lowest life expectancy in italy. that's two years shorter than the national average. the main causes of this sad phenomenon are the enormous spread of childhood obesity, environmental emergencies and poor investment in health care, often linked to economic disparities between the various italian regions. but campania also has the lowest per capita health expenditure in italy, because of an absurd allocation of the national health fund based on the average age of the regional population, which rewards regions with a higher average age and heavily penalizes campania, the youngest region in italy. it's a paradox, you know. i ask the commission to launch a permanent monitoring programme for the european areas most at risk of exclusion, involving parliament and the competent bodies of the member states, so as to enable all those involved to be coordinated as effectively as possible in the implementation of effective integrated policies in the depressed areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to read to you, ladies and gentlemen, some figures concerning an important region of italy and europe that you all know, sicily: there are 780 million euros of erdf 2007-2013 not yet certified, 56% youth unemployment, 8,000 eviction requests, 10,000 inhabitants leaving the island every year, 4,673 business closures, 500 euros for a flight to sicily from milan, in practice more than going to japan from milan. to get sicily back on track, we must deal with the problems i have just mentioned in a serious way, planning in the best possible way and making effective use of all the resources available. in such a situation, however, the proposals of the regional and national governments are hilarious to say the least: the commission has proposed as a solution to the isolation the construction of the bridge over the straits, which is carried out at an exorbitant cost, because rather than linking two coasts, it would, as mr ciotti says, link two sides with a third perhaps composed of white-collar elites ready to take another economic advantage. the rights of sicilians must be monitored and respected.
i would like to thank mrs sophia 't veld, too, for her resolution, which is important because for the first time we are not dealing with rights outside the union but with the question of whether we ourselves respect the rule of law that we are trying to embody. the new mechanism has that purpose and that is why i regard it as positive, since the beginning of the great crisis there has been no talk of anything but doing homework, but homework is only economic, and constitutional democracy is almost never listed among the primary duties. i hope that the mechanism will shift the focus a little bit, that it will help to recognize the effects of austerity on rights, such as health, work, transparent and blameless institutions. such a mechanism was lacking. article 7 of the treaty is inapplicable because it is in the hands of the governments, and therefore not impartial. in the negotiations i asked that the european institutions be examined in the same way as the states. i am only partially satisfied with the result, because such surveillance is promised but not guaranteed. we will table amendments to add these safeguards. the european institutions are viewed with growing distrust by citizens because they are opaque and intrusive, and if we showed genuine vigilance towards them this emerging mechanism would be less suspect of interference in the policies of the states.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mrs sophia in 't veld, for her excellent work and all the other colleagues and shadow rapporteurs. we had already discussed this during the report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union, which i was rapporteur for, and it was agreed at that meeting that this mechanism was necessary. it was necessary because, despite europe's long tradition of protecting fundamental rights, despite the rule of law, the fundamental rights, the charter of fundamental rights, which was adopted, there are, unfortunately, different institutional actors and different non-governmental organisations who continue to denounce the numerous violations that take place on european territory. it is clear that no duplication of mechanisms is necessary, no new one is necessary, but no new one is necessary at the moment when what already exists works. to date, if these violations continue to be perpetrated, it is clear that something is wrong and it is clear that we need something different. this mechanism is necessary because prevention is needed. when we talk about fundamental rights, we cannot wait until there is a violation before taking action. we must prevent and protect fundamental rights throughout europe. that is why i fully support this report, i congratulate my colleague once again and i think it is extremely important to have a mechanism of this kind to give substance to what is written in the treaties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you commissioner timmermans, and i thank mr in 't veld for his report on such an important subject: the environment. the european union must be a model of democratic values for all. the recognition of fundamental rights, which many countries look forward to with great interest, is based on one essential condition, respect for the rule of law. and the european commission has the responsibility to ensure that the union's founding values are respected, observed and protected throughout europe and by all member states. the approval of the free legal aid a few weeks ago is a concrete example of the fact that we are working to build and strengthen the rule of law within the union and we cannot allow, also in view of the particular political moment, that the recognition of fundamental rights is undermined or that they are implemented halfway. i therefore welcome the establishment of an independent mechanism, which, within the framework of the treaties, can monitor the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the more i listen to some of my colleagues, the more i support this report, not least because it is not possible to be part of the european union when it is a matter of taking, while becoming autonomous and independent when it is a matter of giving. there is no duplication at present because this mechanism on rights, fundamental rights and democracy is on demand, but to translate and move this mechanism into a permanent mechanism involving all the member states is already this principle of impartiality and democracy. i therefore believe that it is important and fundamental for the european union to have this instrument, which can be perfected, as always, but it must be done, also because there is currently the venice commission, 47 states are part of this venice commission. so i think it is important to accept, without going into the details, as mr timmermans said, of the criticism that exists about this group of experts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the european day of justice we are rediscovering the union founded on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, absolute values which shape the culture of the 28 member states. there is a risk that the rule of law will be seriously undermined in our democracies, to the extent that the principle itself is no longer perceived as a characteristic of us european citizens. the court of justice has delivered numerous judgments citing the charter, from 43 in 2011 to 210 in 2014, and there is a clear complementary role for the court and a corresponding responsibility for the national european legislator, which is striving to put fundamental rights back at the centre of the union's legal construction. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all care about the internal security of the union. but we cannot help but forget the flaws in the system of information exchange between police and judicial authorities in the member states which have dramatically emerged since the attacks in paris and brussels. we have heard many times, even in public hearings, that the data and information was there, but then the exchange didn't work. as i pointed out in my report on the fight against organised crime, which will be voted on today, crossborder police and judicial cooperation is characterised by excessive length and bureaucracy, which hamper its efficiency and have serious consequences for the internal security of the union. it is therefore necessary to strengthen cooperation and information sharing between member states by ensuring common procedures, mutual admissibility of evidence and the use of joint investigation teams. finally, i would like to point out that the links and the growing convergence between terrorism and organised crime are an increasingly serious threat to the union and that it is also in this sense that the transnational fight against organised crime must be strengthened.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the progress made in the security of the european union. but what are they? i don't see any of them. in the last year, islamic terrorism has carried out massacres and attacks in every corner of europe. and what is your answer? zero, nothing, nothing, practically nothing! i'm not going to do it. intelligence agencies around the world tell us that among the illegal aliens who land in italy every day are islamic terrorists; and the renzi government, what is it doing? since the beginning of the year, it has taken in 157,000 non-eu nationals, two out of three of them illegal immigrants, not refugees. does that sound normal? stop it ! the citizens are tired of being mocked, they are tired of being invaded by thousands of illegal immigrants who steal, deal, commit crimes. it's hell! the only solution to bring security back to italy is to do what other european states are already doing: defending the borders and expelling illegal immigrants. let's stop the invasion before it's too late!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the investigations into the latest attacks and the statements by the coordinator for counter-terrorism show that recruitment processes, particularly online, are accelerating. the real challenge for effective counter-terrorism, therefore, will be to define a long-term strategy on preventing radicalisation and promoting integration, in addition to harmonising the criminal law framework. but more generally, i believe that all the problems connected with the internal security of the union must be tackled with legislative proposals which commit the states to concrete, real cooperation; i am thinking in particular of the exchange of information, and this also in the context of the directive on combating terrorism, which i hope will provide us with a text that will help to break the link between organised crime and the increasingly entrenched terrorist groups. the anti-money laundering directive needs to be updated with rules to prevent terrorist groups from financing themselves and specific rules on confiscation and freezing are needed... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. congressman, yesterday the president explained the procedure. therefore, we shall vote and each of us will vote as we see fit. so you can vote whatever you want. the plenary will decide what to do. parliament will choose.
the vote on the motions for resolutions will be taken at the end of the debate.
it is my pleasure to welcome the members of a delegation from the us congress who have taken their seats in the diplomatic gallery. (applause)the delegation is in strasbourg to meet with their counterparts from the european parliament with the proposal of deepening their knowledge and understanding of our legislative and institutional procedures. i wish the delegation well for the remainder of their stay in the european union.
we shall now resume the voting.
the next item is the continuation of the voting on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
your honor, that was not a request on the agenda.
he made that very clear, but we can turn around if there's any doubt. if the screen said that there was a vote on the resolution, we can vote on the third part. the vote is open.
that concludes the voting. we shall now move on to the explanations of vote.
in writing. ‒ this consultation decision authorises denmark to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha for the purpose of automated consultation and comparison of dna data, as part of wider crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime. this procedure can only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection in national law, which denmark has correctly carried out. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the moraes report on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark. this is an important text, which is being adopted at a time when europe is facing the growing threat of international terrorism. it represents a crucial step towards strengthening crossborder cooperation in the field of criminal investigation and prevention. the guarantee of data protection in denmark and the results achieved in the pilot project carried out in the same country confirm the positive assessment of the proposal, which will mark a strengthening of the action to combat not only terrorist activities but also organized crime.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that one of our priorities must be to combat organised crime and terrorism. this text is one of those measures which are intended to strengthen crossborder cooperation and which are necessary to enable the police forces to have at their disposal new and increasingly effective tools to combat all forms of crime, and that is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to launch an automated exchange of dna data with denmark. the goal consists of facilitating cross-border cooperation especially with regard to the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. i believe this decision will also strengthen the cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the transmission of personal data may only take place after the implementation of the provisions on data protection contained in the provision of the national legislation of the territories of the member states concerned by the transmission. this provision shall not apply to member states where the transmission of personal data has already been initiated pursuant to the 2005 prüm treaty. the verification of the conditions for automated data exchange should be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report, which should include a questionnaire developed by the council working party on automated data exchange, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. denmark completed the data protection questionnaire and the dna data exchange questionnaire and successfully conducted a pilot with the netherlands. in addition, an evaluation visit took place in denmark. it is therefore agreed that the conditions allowing the council to conclude that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection have been met. parliament approves council's proposal to launch automated dna data exchange in denmark.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because i believe that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha for the purpose of automated dna data exchange. in the light of article 20 of that decision, the assessment report is to be drawn up on the basis of a questionnaire. as regards the automated data exchange, in accordance with chapter 2 of the decision, the assessment report shall also be based on an assessment visit and a pilot experience. the questionnaire concerns each of the automated data exchanges and is to be completed by the member state when it is considered that it can fulfil the preconditions for the exchange of data in the relevant category. denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dna data exchange. denmark has submitted the declaration on the national dna analysis files in accordance with article 2 (3) of council decision 2008/615/jha. denmark has successfully carried out a pilot experiment with the netherlands. an evaluation visit took place in denmark and a report was drawn up.
in writing. ‒ this consultation decision authorises denmark to receive and supply personal data in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha for the purpose of automated consultation and comparison of dna data. as part of decision 2008/615/jha on enhancing cross-border cooperation, in particular in combating terrorism and transnational crime, the transfer of personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615 may only be implemented after the transposition into national law on the territory of the member states concerned by the transfer of the general provisions on data protection set out in this decision. on the basis of the overall assessment report, the council concluded on 12 july 2016 that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ under the prüm treaty, the member states have committed themselves to strengthening crossborder cooperation in criminal investigation and crime prevention. the agreement introduces the automated exchange of dna data to help combat terrorism and organised crime, which are among the priorities of the union's security action. i thought i would vote in favour of the proposal to grant denmark access to such data through an automated search process in the light of the results achieved in the pilot project carried out in the country and the positive assessment received by the european commission on data protection in denmark.
in writing. ‒ welcomes this report, which effectively seeks to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ i can only commend a measure to strengthen crossborder cooperation: it is now more than ever unthinkable not to include the fight against terrorism as a priority of the eu, through the closest possible cooperation between states. in the light of the attacks of the past year, we have seen the flexibility of dialogue between national authorities and, therefore, the need to create an unstoppable flow of information between them in order to prevent deep wounds. this measure thus adds a new clause to the prüm treaty, which was signed in 2005 and to which italy acceded in 2009. improvements in data exchange and its specificity not only allow for better identification of potential threats, but also make it possible to close out unsolved cases or to give names to unidentified victims. that being so, it is clear that the transmission of data is necessary, provided that it is both proportionate and based on particular circumstances which give rise to the suspicion that criminal offences will be committed. far be it from us to make choices which in any way limit the freedom of citizens. finally, i would like to remind you that the national dna data bank was actively launched in italy last june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because denmark has successfully completed the implementation pathway of the general data protection rules contained in chapter vi of decision 2008/615/jha, has demonstrated that the conditions contained in that chapter are complied with in the context of the automatic exchange of data as provided for in chapter ii of the decision, and has obtained the council's authorisation for the automatic exchange of dna data for the purpose of providing and receiving personal data pursuant to articles 3 and 4 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ crossborder cooperation in law enforcement in the eu, in particular in the fight against terrorism, crossborder crime and illegal migration, is an essential element in supporting the implementation of the european agenda on security. i therefore welcomed the council's decision to launch the automated exchange of dna data in denmark. cross-border comparison of data should open up a new dimension in the fight against crime and offer member states new approaches to investigations, allowing them to play a crucial role in assisting their law enforcement authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of denmark starting the automated exchange of dna data on those moving within the schengen area. i consider it a very important step in cooperation between member states in the fight against international crime and terrorism, ensuring faster and more secure use of data between countries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report with a view to strengthening crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark as a last bureaucratic step, so that denmark also becomes part of council decision 2008/615/jha on enhancing crossborder cooperation, especially in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. this council decision is even more relevant today, given the clear need to increase cooperation between the investigative authorities of the member states in the fight against terrorism. in this respect, the council's implementing decision completes a long procedural process, aimed at assessing the conformity of danish rules and procedures with data protection rules, which has involved a questionnaire, an on-the-spot check and finally a pilot project. it is vital that all eu countries cooperate with each other in the exchange of information and data, the only real weapon in the fight against terrorism. the exchange of dna data is an important tool for the identification of potential criminals using false documents and a very effective weapon against the problem of forgery of identity documents.
in writing. with regard to the report on the automated exchange of dna data in denmark, it should be noted that the transmission of personal data can only take place following the implementation of the provisions on the protection of personal data laid down by the national legislation of the territories of the member states concerned by the transmission. in accordance with article 20 of decision 2008/616/jha, the verification of compliance with the above conditions is to be carried out on the basis of an assessment report based on a questionnaire. this questionnaire is to be drawn up by a competent council group and covers each of the automated data exchanges, which will in turn be completed by a member state as soon as it considers that all the preconditions for data exchange are fulfilled. on the basis of the above directives, the council concluded that denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection for the purpose of automated dna data exchange and parliament therefore approved the council's draft. i therefore support this report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark. with the rise of terrorism and automated data exchange taking place over the last years in continental europe, will be useful to have a database exchange, assisting in identifying potential dangerous people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the draft council implementing decision on the launch in denmark of the automated exchange of dna data with the aim of facilitating its circulation but at the same time ensuring its security for the protection of citizens.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that, when sensitive data are exchanged, problems arise with regard to the security of information and the protection of the persons directly concerned. however, it should be borne in mind that an automated exchange, if properly carried out, would make it possible to facilitate and facilitate the movement of sensitive information, as in the case before us. i therefore thought it appropriate to express myself positively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising denmark to exchange dna data in the area of crossborder cooperation, as an important tool in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ this consultation decision authorises denmark to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha for the purpose of automated consultation and comparison of fingerprint data, as part of wider crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime. this procedure can only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection in national law, which denmark has correctly carried out. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the moraes report on the launch of the automatic exchange of fingerprint data in denmark. this is an important text, which is being adopted at a time when europe is facing the growing threat of international terrorism. it will simplify the procedure for the collection and exchange of information on fingerprints and palm prints and their patterns stored and processed using an automated database. the text represents a crucial step towards strengthening crossborder cooperation in criminal investigation and crime prevention, a positive outcome supported also by the data protection guarantee in denmark and the results achieved by it in the pilot project. the proposal will undoubtedly strengthen the fight against terrorist activities and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that one of our priorities must be to combat organised crime and terrorism. this text is one of those measures which are intended to strengthen crossborder cooperation and which are necessary to enable the police forces to have at their disposal new and increasingly effective tools to combat all forms of crime, and that is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this resolution because it allows denmark to exchange dactyloscopic data with the other eu member states in order to facilitate cross-border judicial cooperation. i strongly believe this resolution, together with the one on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dna data, will improve the eu capacity to tackle terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha, the transfer of personal data may only take place after the implementation of the data protection provisions referred to in chapter 6 of the decision in the national legislation of the territories of the member states concerned by the transfer. this provision shall not apply to member states where the transmission of personal data has already been initiated pursuant to the 2005 prüm treaty. the verification of compliance with the condition shall be carried out on the basis of an assessment report based on a questionnaire. the questionnaire drawn up by the competent council group concerns each of the automated data exchanges and must be completed by a member state as soon as it considers that it fulfils the preconditions for the exchange of data. denmark completed the data protection questionnaire and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data and successfully carried out a pilot with germany. an evaluation visit also took place in denmark. it is agreed that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and therefore the european parliament approves the council's draft on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the council's implementation plan for the start of the automatic exchange of fingerprint data in denmark. we are talking about fingerprint and palmprint images and the patterns of those images that are stored and processed in an automated database. today's vote commits us to strengthening crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the countries of the european union, with the aim of fighting terrorism and crossborder crime more effectively. denmark has successfully completed the questionnaire on automated data exchange, including a pilot with germany, and has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection laid down in council decision 2008/615/jha. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal in order to include denmark in the system for receiving and transmitting this information and data.
in writing. ‒ this consultation decision authorises denmark to receive and supply personal data in accordance with council decision 2008/615/jha for the purpose of automated searching and comparison of fingerprint data. as part of decision 2008/615/jha on enhancing cross-border cooperation, in particular in combating terrorism and transnational crime, the transfer of personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615 may only be implemented after the transposition into national law on the territory of the member states concerned by the transfer of the general provisions on data protection set out in this decision. on the basis of the general evaluation report, the council concluded on 12 july 2016 that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ under the prüm treaty, the member states have committed themselves to strengthening crossborder cooperation in criminal investigation and crime prevention. the agreement provides for the automated exchange of data for the purpose of combating terrorism and organised crime, which are priority issues in the union's security policy. i thought i would vote in favour of the proposal to grant denmark access to dactyloscopic data through an automated search process in the light of the results achieved in the pilot project carried out in the country and the positive assessment received by the european commission on data protection in denmark.
in writing. ‒ welcomes this report, which effectively seeks to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the launch of the exchange of fingerprint data, which is a significant step towards a new and decisive chapter in european security, and i hope that member states which do not yet have such measures will speed up their adoption. the idea of automated data banks, especially at european level, was once considered almost science fiction. today, however, they are everyday tools that allow for instant comparisons and, consequently, for speeding up highly complex investigations. the continuous and effective exchange of dna and fingerprint data between the authorities of the member states will make citizens feel safer throughout the union. i voted in favour of the measure in the hope that by seeing these extremely pragmatic measures, citizens will understand that the eu is not an enemy to be fought or an unpunished criminal. it is a harbinger of stable and lasting peace and a source of tangible responses to the needs of citizens, since the easy and rapid identification of criminals is reflected not only in the resolution of judicial cases but also in the prevention of possible terrorist threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because denmark has correctly implemented the general data protection rules contained in chapter vi of decision 2008/615/jha and has demonstrated that the conditions contained in that chapter are respected in the context of the automated data exchange in accordance with chapter ii of the decision, by obtaining authorisation to send and receive personal data in the context of automated searching of dactyloscopic data in accordance with article 9 of decision 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ the ability to exchange accurate information quickly and effectively is crucial to ensuring efficient international cooperation. i therefore welcomed the council's decision to launch the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark. cross-border comparison of data should open up a new dimension in the fight against crime and offer member states new approaches to investigations, allowing them to play a crucial role in assisting their law enforcement authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of denmark starting the automated exchange of fingerprint data on those moving within the schengen area. i consider it a very important step in cooperation between member states in the fight against international crime and terrorism, ensuring faster and more secure use of data between countries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report with a view to strengthening crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange in denmark as a last bureaucratic step towards denmark also becoming part of council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, especially in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. this council decision is even more relevant today, given the clear need to increase cooperation between the investigative authorities of the member states in the fight against terrorism. in this respect, the council's implementing decision completes a long procedural process, aimed at assessing the conformity of danish rules and procedures with data protection rules, which has involved a questionnaire, an on-the-spot check and finally a pilot project. it is essential that all eu countries, even those that are further away from the idea of a federal europe than denmark, cooperate with each other in the exchange of information and data, the only real weapon in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. denmark completed the questionnaire on the automated data exchange for dna data and also completed the questionnaire on the automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data. as for the automated exchange of dna data, denmark has complied with the conditions laid down in article 20 of decision 2008/616/jha and, on the basis of those conditions, a comprehensive assessment report summarising the results of the questionnaire, the evaluation visit and the pilot experience on the exchange of dactyloscopic data was submitted to the council. in the light of the good work done by denmark, parliament decided to approve the council's draft.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark. this proposal is important to enhance cross-border cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange in denmark, as it is important to facilitate and improve the flow of data while at the same time guaranteeing and protecting the interests of our citizens at all times.
in writing. ‒ i thought it my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. the issues related to the exchange of sensitive data have always been a sensitive subject, as a balance needs to be struck between the protection of the privacy of the persons directly concerned and the improvement of the service in question. if this balance is maintained, there will be considerable benefits for the community. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising denmark to exchange digitally scanned data in the area of crossborder cooperation, as an important tool in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ chinese citizens must have a visa when travelling to the schengen area in the same way that eu citizens need a visa to enter china. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for all eu citizens holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer and for chinese citizens holding a valid diplomatic passport who are travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the valero report on the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the text provides for an exemption for union citizens and chinese citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it is only for holders of valid diplomatic passports or eu passports, reducing their waiting times at consulates and lowering travel costs. although this measure concerns only a small group of users, i am convinced that it can open the way to closer cooperation in the hope of being able to conclude, in the future, an agreement on the exemption from the visa requirement for holders of ordinary passports. china is a key economic partner and a global player of growing importance, and a strengthening of relations can only be a positive outcome in view of an increasingly fruitful political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu passport, and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport, who are visiting the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution supporting the results of the negotiation of the agreement between the european union and the people’s republic of china regarding the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this decision has been taken in order to facilitate the travel of diplomats and strengthen the development of friendly relations between the eu and china.
in writing. ‒ the eu-china agreement on the reciprocal exemption from the visa requirement for holders of diplomatic passports for short stays was signed by the eu and chinese heads of negotiation on 3 and 4 november 2015. it provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport who are travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement takes account of the specific situation of the united kingdom and ireland, which will therefore not participate in the agreement. in addition, a joint declaration annexed to the agreement refers to norway, iceland, switzerland and lichtenstein, whose authorities are invited to conclude visa waiver agreements with china. the agreement also contains provisions concerning france and the netherlands, so that it applies only to the european territories of these two member states. the european parliament welcomes the conclusion of this agreement as it will facilitate people-to-people contacts which are essential for the development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu passport and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport travelling to the territory of the other party. i hope that the visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will be a step towards the establishment of a total reciprocal visa exemption for holders of ordinary passports. the importance of visa liberalisation is considerable, as it brings tangible benefits. visa abolition will reduce waiting times at consulates and travel costs and facilitate people-to-people contacts, which are essential for the continuing development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, as well as for the intensification of contacts between citizens.
in writing. ‒ negotiations on the reciprocal visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports have been launched as part of the eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility and the agreement was concluded on 25 november. it also provides that for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, holders of diplomatic passports do not need a visa. parliament is called upon to give its consent and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement, for which i thought i voted in favour, provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a diplomatic passport or an eu passport and for chinese citizens holding a valid diplomatic passport who are travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i believe that this visa exemption, although it concerns a limited portion of users, can represent a step towards the possible future establishment of a total reciprocal exemption also for ordinary passport holders. it is clear that the abolition of visas will not only promote interaction between cultures (an essential condition for the development of economic, cultural or scientific links) but will also reduce waiting times at consulates and reduce travel costs.
in writing. ‒ i am expressing my opinion on this agreement by voting in favour, as i believe it is vital for the eu to achieve ever closer and stronger relations with the people's republic of china. in this respect i support the establishment of a joint committee of experts for the management of the agreement, which is particularly appropriate in view of the scant information on the procedures for issuing chinese diplomatic passports and the number of them. in any event, the agreement concluded will reduce waiting times at consulates and the costs associated with them, but above all it will facilitate contact between people. this is therefore a significant opportunity to ensure that economic, cultural and scientific links between the two countries continue to develop. focusing on this orientation, i am particularly sorry to note the non-accession of ireland and the united kingdom, which seem to want to confirm in every way their desire to move away from the eu and, in this context, an isolationist path.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu-china agreement represents a step forward in relations between the two parties and a facilitation for those who hold a european or chinese diplomatic passport or a european passport. the agreement provides that holders of such documents may travel to the territory of the contracting parties without requiring a visa for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. a statement on the interpretation of this 90-day period over a 180-day period is attached to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this agreement on visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports if they are planning a short-term stay, i.e. not exceeding 180 days. this agreement ensures full parity between european and chinese representatives, and will make it possible to simplify and speed up bureaucratic procedures whenever it is necessary to move from europe to china and vice versa in the case of a diplomatic mission to china.
in writing. ‒ facilitating travel by granting holders of diplomatic and eu passports visa-free entry conditions for short stays can only foster china-eu relations on the basis of the principles of equality and reciprocity. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this resolution, which could be a stepping stone towards the establishment of a total reciprocal visa exemption for holders of ordinary passports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, as it feeds into the ongoing eu-china dialogue on migration and mobility.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, because i believe it is an important first step that improves relations between the parties and brings tangible and immediate benefits to citizens of both blocs. i think that the visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports who are visiting the territory of the other party for less than 90 days will greatly facilitate diplomatic work by avoiding the tiresome bureaucratic procedures before consulates. this measure can therefore be a first experiment to achieve the abolition of visas for ordinary citizens in the future, thus allowing the development of closer cultural, economic, scientific links between china and the eu. we are of course still very much concerned about the protection of human rights in china and i think that visa liberalization will have to go hand in hand with progress in this area by the beijing authorities. parliament will be watching this very closely.
in writing. the visa information system (vis) was introduced in china in october 2015. from that date all chinese applicants are required to provide their biometric data from the moment they apply for access to the schengen area. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport who are travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the european parliament, on the basis of the guidelines set out in the agreement, shall give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver is a step forward in relations between the two parties, facilitating both communication and cooperation. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport who are travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i thought it my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an important step forward in strengthening relations between europe and the people's republic of china. the visa for holders of diplomatic passports would facilitate communication and cooperation between the two powers. the present proposal hopes that the visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will be only the first step towards the establishment of a reciprocal total visa exemption for holders of ordinary passports. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ china is one of the countries whose citizens must have a visa when travelling to the schengen area. citizens of the european union, in turn, need a visa to enter china. in addition, the european visa information system (vis) officially became operational in china on 12 october 2015 and from that date all chinese applicants are required to provide their biometric data when applying for a schengen visa. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union holding a valid diplomatic passport or eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport who are travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the rapporteur welcomes the fact that the proposed agreement also covers, for the first time, holders of european union passports. the abolition of visas will reduce waiting times at consulates and travel costs, and will also facilitate people-to-people contacts, which are essential for the continuing development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and china providing for visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic passports for short stays of up to 90 days could be an effective measure to strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries. the liberalization of these visas could facilitate bilateral exchanges and people-to-people contacts, allowing important economic, cultural and scientific links to develop. i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft report provides for the extension of the co-financing mechanisms to greece and cyprus (due to their crisis-related difficulties) for the erdf and esf programmes beyond 2016 and until closure of programming, but without any change in the size of the appropriations. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ at a politically difficult time for the eu, as it faces the outcome of the uk vote and the serious migrant crisis, some member states are still feeling the heavy effects of the economic and financial crisis that has shaken the world since 2008. the growing debt problem and the successive austerity measures adopted to restore the balance sheets have aggravated an already complex situation which would require not only budgetary consolidation but above all investment to support growth and employment. i voted in favour of the mihaylova report because i believe it is essential to guarantee financial aid to member states in serious difficulties in order to make the most of the investment opportunities offered by the esi funds. to date, only greece has an assistance programme. with the approval of the amendment to regulation (eu) no 1303/2013, the extension of that provision will also apply to countries such as cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal. these measures are necessary and will not affect the union budget because the temporary increase in appropriations will be offset by a reduction in payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes.
in writing. ‒ although the report aims to increase the allocation of eu funds to member states in budgetary difficulties, this proposal does not solve the basic problem of the euro. as long as the member states are imprisoned in the shackles of the single currency, a wrong currency that suffocates our entrepreneurs and savers, any attempt to lighten the burden of the euro will be inadequate. the only solution is to return to national currencies to get our economy going again. for these reasons i prefer to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this resolution on the proposal to amend eu regulation no 1303/2013 because i think it is important to financially sustain member states which have temporary budgetary difficulties. indeed, this resolution proposes to increase payments from the european structural and investment funds by 10 percentage points. in particular, i believe that greece needs our solidarity and the eu has to commit to helping it in its economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ the continuation of the global economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 is weighing on national financial resources as member states pursue the necessary fiscal consolidation policies. in this context, it is particularly important, in terms of investment for growth and jobs, to ensure that programmes supported by the esi funds (european structural and investment funds) are implemented smoothly. at present, however, this is difficult to implement, both because of procedural problems and because of the liquidity problems resulting from the budgetary consolidation. this is particularly true for the member states most affected by the crisis which have received financial support through an adjustment programme. it would perhaps be helpful if a temporary mechanism were set up at european union level to allow the commission to increase reimbursements on the basis of expenditure certified under the esi funds and to recognise a higher co-financing rate for all operational programmes of countries in difficulty receiving support from the erdf and the esf.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the amendment to regulation (eu) 1303/2013 on financial management for certain member states, which allows countries in greater financial difficulty to benefit from more support from europe. in this period of severe economic crisis, it is important to ensure that they have easy access to the european structural and investment funds. the amendment to the regulation in question makes it possible to increase the so-called 'reintegration' payments to those countries which need to regain financial stability, such as cyprus, ireland, romania and portugal. at present only greece benefits from a financial assistance programme and therefore the extension of these provisions will also apply to the above countries. supporting recovery and investment efforts will allow these countries more time to balance their budgets, manage eu-guaranteed financing projects efficiently and lead to greater development of their national economies. the changes will not affect the eu budget as the temporary increase in payment appropriations will be offset by a reduction in payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which accepts, without amendments, the commission's proposal to amend articles 24 and 120 of the common provisions regulation by proposing to extend the top-up of co-financing to greece and cyprus (due to their crisis-related difficulties) for the erdf and esf programmes beyond 2016 and until closure of programming.
in writing. ‒ voting in favour of extending interim payments from the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) to member states facing a long-term and onerous budgetary difficulty is a choice from which to depart is not an option. the crisis which has been affecting the eu for years must be overcome as soon as possible by all means. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's external financing needs. similarly, if this is true, as the measure clearly states, it must also be recognised that medium and long-term financial support is only feasible if accompanied by appropriate macroeconomic adjustment programmes. therefore, i agree, in line with the provisions of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013, that union support to applicant states should not exceed the public expenditure of the latter, since putting a country on its own feet should not mean spoiling it by paying off past debts or implementing unimplemented development reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because article 24 of the cpr allows the commission to increase payments to esi fund programmes, the so-called reimbursements, in favour of countries experiencing budgetary difficulties. the financial and economic crisis has put a strain on national economies and member states have adopted austerity measures to rebalance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the eu's main funding instruments, the european structural and investment funds (esifs), also in the face of pressing national budgets, which make it difficult for countries in financial difficulties to raise sufficient funds for national co-financing of regional policy projects.
in writing. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. in practice, it is proposed to extend the top-up of co-financing for the erdf and esf programmes beyond 2016 and until closure of programming, but without any changes for the community budget. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal and therefore the rapporteur's report, as i did last year for the advance payment to greece. at such a difficult time, a higher cofinancing rate is essential to finance those public investments which can help the country and the people, and these commission proposals are going in the right direction. the five star movement has always been in favour of such measures, giving voice to the needs of citizens and supporting governments that listen. the fight against austerity is one of our priorities against european myopia and, as we expected, the facts are proving us right.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has put considerable pressure on the national economies of the eu member states, forcing them to take austerity measures to repair their budgets. in this delicate situation, i believe it is essential that the eu ensures the proper implementation of the main european funding instruments, namely the european structural and investment funds. i voted in favour of the report because it proposes changes which will increase the level of payment appropriations, providing practical help to the liquidity problems of some member states, and at the same time would not profoundly alter the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, despite some positive steps, i still believe that the measures needed are those relating to the transition from the single currency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on common provisions for member states in financial difficulties, in order to deal with the liquidity problems particularly experienced in certain member states as a result of the economic and financial crisis and to facilitate the implementation of the programmes provided for under the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), as in some member states they represent the only possible sources of investment. in particular, articles 24 and 120 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 can be used to help member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties and consequently receiving financial assistance to make the most of the investment opportunities offered by the esi funds and to implement the programmes they have set out by allocating funds to projects through an increase in the share co-financed by the european commission. i strongly supported the proposal by the committee on regional development to accept the commission's proposal to extend greece's eligibility for additional payments for a certain period and to extend these provisions to all member states which would need and benefit from financial assistance after joining an economic adjustment programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this is the cohesion policy we want and recognise and work towards. cofinancing is a decisive aspect of the use, and above all the good use, of the structural funds. many local authorities have enormous difficulties in getting their share of the funding for projects to be carried out with the structural funds. increasing the cofinancing rates for those countries which are in the greatest economic difficulties means putting them in a position to make the investments necessary for growth, investments which would never be made without cohesion policy. it is an important measure, but we must go further. the next step must be to remove cofinancing from the stability pact, to really dissolve the chains of administration and to revive investment. and those who, like me, believe that cohesion policy should be at the service of the regions which need it, can only condemn a priori the possibility that the commission will 'sanction' spain and portugal by suspending the structural funds to punish them for their excessive deficits. cohesion policy is not a weapon in the hands of the commission, but a right, a privilege of being member states of a union which must be coherent and courageous.
in writing. in the event of temporary budgetary difficulties in which member states may find themselves, it is envisaged that the investment opportunities offered by the european structural investment funds may be fully exploited. in order to ensure the effective use of those funds, it is envisaged that the commission may complement payments over a given period of time, for example from 1 january 2014 to 30 june 2016 for those countries which have received financial assistance as from 21 december 2013. in the case of greece, whose economic situation is still very fragile, the commission proposes to extend its eligibility for the additional payments. as the proposed changes to the compression ratio (rdc) do not bring any additional honour to the eu budget, and as these funds are aimed at reducing the gap between the more advanced and the less advanced regions, i am in favour of their forecast.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the economic crisis has seriously affected national financial resources and has forced the eu member states to implement fiscal consolidation policies. in this context, it is essential to pursue a programme that promotes growth and employment. this proposal would provide additional financial resources, thus allowing the necessary budgetary flexibility and facilitating the implementation of esi programmes (european structural and investment funds). i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ jean-marie le pen is accused of publicly inciting racial hatred in a video posted on the internet on 6 june 2014. the rapporteur considered that there was no link between the statement in question and the parliamentary duties of jean-marie le pen and that he had therefore not acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and he requested the waiver of parliamentary immunity in this criminal case. i share the rapporteur's view and have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr jean-marie le pen. the request was made by two investigating judges of the paris tribunal in connection with an alleged crime: the mp was accused of publicly inciting racial hatred in a video posted on the internet on 6 june 2014. the commission found that there was no link between the statement in question and the parliamentary duties of jean-marie le pen and, not suspecting the presence of fumus persecutionis, decided to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ jean-marie le pen is accused of publicly inciting racial hatred in a video posted on the internet. since there is no link between the statement in question and the parliamentary duties of jean-marie le pen and he has therefore not acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity because the offence alleged against mr jean marie le pen occurred outside the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and, since immunity is granted by the european parliament for acts, opinions and activities during the performance of his duties, there were no valid reasons to maintain the immunity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jean-marie le pen for inciting racial hatred in a video posted on the internet. although article 26 of the french constitution and article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union protect the right of members of parliament to freedom of expression in the performance of their duties, i believe that this right must be interpreted in the light of the values and objectives of the european treaties. therefore, the freedoms of opinion and expression cannot constitute a licence to slander, defamation, incitement to hatred or defamatory statements, in breach of article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for the waiver of mr le pen's immunity, as i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ the question of the continued immunity of ukip mp jane collins was raised following a criminal defamation case over statements made by her about a child abuse scandal in the english county of rotherham. specifically, she alleged that labour mps kevin barron, john healey and sarah champion were aware of the scandal before it was made public by the press, and was subsequently sued by the three labour mps for libel. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs, i supported the position expressed by rapporteur zwiefka to reject the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of jane collins. the request was made in the context of civil proceedings pending against him before the queen's bench division of the high court in london and relating to a complaint for defamation and slander at a party conference. the committee believes that jane collins' statements have no direct and obvious connection with her duties as a member of the european parliament, as they were made in the context of a national political debate. the contested declarations are therefore not protected by article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the offence alleged against ms jane collins, namely defamation and slander with aggravated harm, occurred within the ukip party conference on 26 september 2014 and considering that the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament deriving from article 8 of the protocol applies only to opinions expressed in the course of the performance of his duties, there were no valid reasons to defend the honourable member's privileges and immunities.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary immunity conferred by article 8 of the protocol applies only to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament in the performance of their duties. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this decision, since there is no direct and obvious link between the statements in question and jane collins' duties as a member of the european parliament, and these statements, made in the context of a national political debate, are not related to her activity as a member of the european parliament or to the policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ mep mario borghezio has asked the european parliament to defend his immunity in proceedings brought by the criminal division of the court of milan for the offence of 'discrimination, hatred or violence on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds' under article 1 (a) of law 205/1993. in particular, mr borghezio was accused of spreading ideas based on racial hatred during the radio programme 'la zanzara' against the member of parliament cecilia kyenge. i voted for the repeal.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs, i supported the position expressed by the rapporteur, mr dzhambazki, to reject the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of mr mario borghezio. this request was made in the context of the criminal proceedings pending before the court of milan, in which the honourable member is accused of having propagated ideas based on racial or ethnic superiority and hatred in a radio programme. the committee felt that the statements had no direct and obvious connection with the duties of a member of the european parliament, since they were made in response to the appointment of a new member of the italian government, the newly elected minister for integration. the contested declarations are therefore not protected by article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio asked the european parliament to defend his immunity in proceedings brought by the tribunal of milan for the offence of 'discrimination, hatred or violence on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds' under article 1 (a) of law 205/1993. in particular, he was accused of spreading ideas based on racial hatred during the radio show "la zanzara'" against mp kyenge. i have voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity, since there is no link between the statement in question and parliamentary duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of mario borghezio mep, in line with the resolution on the european parliament's decision not to defend his privileges and immunities. i consider, on the one hand, that the fact that mr borghezio's discriminatory statements made in a radio interview have no connection with his parliamentary activities precludes the possibility of his benefiting from immunity under article 8 of protocol no 7 and the opinion of the court of justice, and, on the other hand, that such statements addressed to the newly elected minister for integration and based on racial or ethnic superiority and hatred, as well as being punishable under article 1 (a) of italian law no 205/1993, are inadequate to the dignity of parliament itself.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a report is to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics. the amendments concern the optimisation of the use of existing information that can be used for statistical purposes. it is therefore provided that the commission, after consulting the european statistical system committee, is to send a report to the european parliament and the council by 31 december 2020 and every four years thereafter. the commission will have to take into account all relevant information provided by the member states concerning the quality and methods used. the collection and dissemination of data will be carried out by eurostat in consultation with the commission, which will be responsible for defining the modalities by means of delegated acts. i therefore voted against the rejection amendment, in the same spirit as i supported the importance of monitoring and data collection in this important area.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the cramer report on rail transport statistics. this is an important text which arises from the agreement between parliament and the council on the collection of data on goods, passengers and railway accidents. the amendments to the existing regulation will extend the scope of transport statistics to infrastructure data, making it possible to assess the development of the european on-board railway traffic management system (ertms), which has proved ineffective to date due to delays and irregularities in its implementation. the key is to strengthen cooperation between the commission, eurostat and the european railway agency in order to ensure that statistical data on eu policies are easily accessible to citizens and all stakeholders. the signing of the two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between eurostat and afe demonstrates the commitment to this direction and ensured not only the optimisation of the use of existing information but also a reduction in administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support the motion for a resolution tabled.
in writing. ‒ on first reading, parliament decided that the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics should be extended to infrastructure data, in particular the application of the european rail traffic management system (ertms). parliament stressed that it was extremely important to have a clear vision of the development of ertms in the union and considered it very important that european citizens have easy access to data on the implementation of eu policies. to avoid duplication of work between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency (era), it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between these institutions and to ensure that statistical data relating to eu policies are easily accessible to citizens and stakeholders. agreement on a simplification of the regulation on rail transport statistics was possible following the signing of two memoranda of understanding between eurostat and the commission and between eurostat and afe. these memoranda of understanding are important tools for optimising the use of existing information and reducing administrative burdens and are useful for meeting the requirements for better use of rail transport statistics.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of amending the regulation in question because it improves, through a series of measures, the instruments for developing rail transport statistics. firstly, it extends the scope of transport statistics to infrastructure data and, finally, it makes practical in terms of operational the application of the european on-board railway traffic management system (ertms), which has so far proved ineffective due to delays and irregularities in its application. secondly, it allows eurostat to publish statistical data on stations without architectural barriers, in order to facilitate access for disabled persons who are not able to use the service. finally, it provides for close cooperation between eurostat and the european railway agency (era) to ensure the improvement of railway accident statistics, including those involving dangerous goods and involving level crossings.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend an earlier regulation with the aim of optimising the use of information for statistical purposes. the commission has the lead role alongside eurostat and is required to compile a report on the implementation of the regulation every four years. i had no hesitation in voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ good data collection on freight, passengers and accidents and the production of targeted statistics are necessary tools to enable timely monitoring of rail transport. only through proper monitoring can we identify the most important challenges to be addressed in the sector and achieve a common transport strategy. i believe in particular that such statistics are essential to strengthening european action on transport safety. therefore, i believe that the european commission's directorate-general for mobility and transport and the european railway agency should extend the scope of data collection to include timely information on infrastructure and in particular on the application of the european rail traffic management system (ertms). i appreciate that the report calls on eurostat to submit and make public data on railway stations providing assistance to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. i hope that eurostat and the european railway agency can further strengthen their collaboration to ensure consistency in the methodology for data collection and analysis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it is a very simple technical measure, which has been stuck for two years because of the refusal of the member states to publish rail transport statistics (rts). i believe that the availability of such specific, detailed and timely data is essential and that statistics on rail freight and passenger transport are necessary for the purpose of monitoring and developing the common transport policy. furthermore, considering that accidents have become a priority issue in the transport policy of the european union, together with the other undesirable effects of transport (such as pollution and co2 emissions), i believe it is essential to collect and disseminate data on accidents, fatalities, serious injuries and environmental damage relating to all modes of transport. i therefore support this proposal, which aims to simplify and optimise the current legal framework for european rail transport statistics and bring it into line with the new institutional framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because by strengthening cooperation between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency (era), through two memoranda of understanding on optimising the information already held by the authorities and reducing administrative burdens, it could be possible to provide all categories of interested users with a range of easily accessible statistics and data on the state of european railway policies. the compromise was reached after a series of lengthy negotiations, in which the european parliament put forward its position on greater transparency of rail data, which should include, among others, infrastructure data such as the european onboard rail traffic management system (ertms), stations without architectural barriers for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, and accident statistics.
in writing. ‒ the availability of detailed and timely statistical data on rail transport is increasingly important in view of the commission's adoption of evidence-based policies and the need to monitor progress towards the objectives set out in the 2011 transport white paper. in voting in favour of this resolution, i intend to support the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the collection of data on goods, passengers and railway accidents. i support the priorities identified by parliament with regard to the monitoring of the proper application of the european on-board railway traffic management system (ertms) and the publication of eurostat data on stations without architectural barriers and on railway accidents, including those involving the transport of dangerous goods. finally, i support the efforts of the european institutions to avoid duplication of work (in terms of data collection and administrative burden) between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency (era) and to make statistical data on eu policies available to eu citizens and stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i believe that access to rail transport data should be a priority for the trans-european transport network (ten-t). at the economic level, it has the advantage of improving trade and promoting the development of enterprises and services to citizens. at the social level, the publication of railway infrastructure statistics facilitates access for persons with reduced mobility and disabled persons and the use of cross-border railway infrastructure. i welcome parliament's indication of the cooperation of eurostat and the railway agency to improve railway accident statistics. these reasons have led me to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the rejection as i agree with the text presented at first reading.
in writing. the aim of this proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003 in order to update, facilitate and optimise the existing legal framework for european rail transport statistics, bringing it into line with the new institutional context. it is a system for the management, control and protection of railway traffic and related signalling on board, designed to replace the multiple traffic and safety systems of european railways, ensuring new high-speed rail networks. the european parliament also wanted to stress the importance of having a clear vision of the development of ertms/etcs (european rail traffic management system/european train control system), for which a lot of resources have been invested. i therefore vote in favour of mr cramer's report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the council's position on the adoption of a regulation on rail transport statistics as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents, i believe that these protocols could be of considerable use. these are memoranda of understanding designed to optimise the use of existing information and to reduce administrative burdens, with benefits for the community. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003 in order to update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european rail transport statistics and align it with the new institutional context. i think it is very useful to provide policy-makers with reliable figures in such a way as to facilitate their work in the interests of european transport policy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has repeatedly stressed that the success of a policy to enhance the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on the use of reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. my support for the eickhout report on statistics on inland waterway freight transport is based on this conviction. the proposed amendments to the regulation put inland navigation on an equal footing with the maritime, air and road transport sectors in terms of data collection. the commission will first develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterways, then launch pilot studies to test the feasibility of new data collection and present them to parliament and the council. the text also provides for a limitation of the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts, reserving them only for adapting the regulation to changes in international codification and nomenclature and for raising the thresholds.
in writing. ‒ the measure under voting is well thought out and does not present any obvious criticisms, so i intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ on first reading, parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on the carriage of goods by inland waterway to passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would put inland navigation on a par with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers. parliament and the council agreed to consider inland waterway passenger transport within the framework of the regulation and defined the first steps towards the integration of passenger transport statistics. the commission will have to develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway and will have to launch optional pilot studies to verify the feasibility of new data collections. the financing of such pilot projects should be supported by the eu budget. parliament and the council agreed to limit the commission's powers to the adoption of delegated acts, adopted only to adapt the regulation to changes in international codification and nomenclature. parliament approved the council's position at first reading without amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that the success of a policy to enhance the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation puts inland navigation on a par with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers. the commission, in collaboration with the member states, will develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway and will launch optional pilot studies to verify the feasibility of new data collections. the financing of such pilot projects should be supported by the eu budget. parliament and the council agreed to limit the powers of the commission to adopt delegated acts. such acts should be adopted only to adapt the regulation to changes in international codification and nomenclature and to increase the thresholds. the duration of the delegation was therefore limited to five years.
in writing. ‒ the regulation concerns the compilation of statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterways. parliament and the council agreed that passenger transport by inland waterway should be dealt with within this regulation and have therefore defined the first steps to integrate passenger transport statistics. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is going in the right direction. the powers and competences conferred on the commission, which undertook to examine legislative acts which had not been adapted to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should be brought into line. considers it appropriate to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to adjust the threshold of statistical coverage of inland waterway transport and to adapt existing definitions and adopt additional definitions, as well as to adapt the field of observation of data collection and the content of the annexes. i also believe that it is essential to give the commission implementing powers in order to ensure uniform conditions for the arrangements for the transmission of data to the commission itself and to develop and publish methodological requirements and criteria to ensure the quality of the data obtained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because the inclusion of passenger statistics in the regulation on statistics on inland waterway freight transport will lead to a more reliable overall collection of data which will contribute to the objective of enhancing the role of inland waterway transport in the transport sector. parliament and the council have drawn up a programme for the integration of passenger statistics into the regulation which will be implemented by the commission, in consultation with the member states, defining a methodology for data collection and, at a later stage, by the commission launching pilot studies to verify the new data collection. the commission will present the results of its studies to parliament and the council will consider the possibility of a proposal for a revision of the regulation. in addition, parliament and the council agreed to limit the adoption of delegated acts by the commission to adapting the regulation to changes in international codification and nomenclature and to increasing the thresholds. the duration of the delegation shall be limited to five years.
in writing. ‒ the success of a policy to enhance the role of inland navigation in the transport sector must be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation puts inland navigation on a par with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers. the proposal to align regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) as regards the delegated and implementing powers conferred on the commission would allow the adjustment of the threshold for statistical coverage of inland waterway transport and ensure uniform conditions concerning the provisions for the transmission of data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway, as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, because i consider this to be a measure which goes in the direction of completing the single market. given the importance of inland navigation for the economy of many member states, it is important to have a uniform statistical methodology and reliable data in order to make the right policy choices. the position of parliament to include both freight and passenger data in these statistical collections is to be welcomed and i am glad that the council has fully accepted it. it is now up to the commission to develop a methodology for compiling statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway, to verify their feasibility and, if necessary, to propose a proposal for the revision of the regulation.
in writing. on the proposal of mr bas eickhout, parliament called for the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway freight transport to be extended to passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would mean bringing inland navigation into a state of equality with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected both for goods and for passengers. parliament and the council agreed to consider passenger transport by inland waterway within the framework of the regulation. i therefore support the adoption of the measure.
in writing. ‒ in view of the council's position on the adoption of a regulation on statistics on the carriage of goods by inland waterway, i believe that these memoranda of understanding are aimed at optimising the use of existing information and reducing administrative burdens, with benefits for the community. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on its first reading, the european parliament extended the scope of the regulation on statistics on the carriage of goods by inland waterway. subsequently, parliament and the council agreed to consider passenger transport by inland waterway within the framework of the said regulation. the two institutions also defined the first steps towards the integration of passenger transport statistics. this is a good agreement which reflects the general interest of the inland waterway transport sector. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because the customs union is a great asset for the european union and a necessary instrument for the single market. it is a further step forward, but much remains to be done. customs are the gateways to our union. unfortunately, the impression is that they are not sufficiently controlled. european trade policy is very controversial. the reduced or even zero duty arrangements granted to certain goods from third countries risk causing serious damage to the european market if customs are not rigorously controlled and enforced within the already very permissive limits. it is a battle i fought a few months ago to get the precise figures of the quantities of, for example, moroccan tomatoes which entered europe from spain. it was a war of numbers between the commission, the trade unions, the governments, the producers, and yet customs should record everything. it is right to seek to unify the penalties for infringements, but before that we must intensify checks and produce reliable data.
in writing. ‒ although the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union and the backbone of the single market, there is no integrated approach to sanctions. in the single market we often face the same rules, but when these rules are broken, the penalties applied in the 28 member states differ significantly. the court of justice has recently held that differences in the level of penalties have an effect equivalent to quantitative restrictions. this report therefore aims to standardize the system of penalties in this field. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the customs union and trade policy are two fundamental elements of the european union, which has exclusive competence in these matters for this very reason. although these are the building blocks of the single market, an integrated approach is still lacking, both in the area of customs enforcement and in the area of customs penalties. this not only creates disparities in the way duties are set, but also represents a risk for companies operating on the european market. the kallas report, which i supported today, deals with the legal framework to be adopted with a view to creating an integrated approach to the application of customs legislation, including the sanctioning dimension. the establishment of common, clear and transparent rules will be a crucial step forward in strengthening the customs union while ensuring compliance with international rules. the eu customs code will facilitate trade and improve the consistency of customs administrative practices in the member states.
in writing. ‒ under the treaties, the customs union and trade policy are the exclusive competence of the european union. however, without an integrated approach to the enforcement of the rules, including sanctions, it is not possible for the customs administrations of the member states to act as a single administration, especially in view of their considerable differences between sanctioning systems. this is an important limitation that needs to be overcome by providing the eu with a customs code that facilitates trade and improves the compliance of customs administrative practices of the member countries. sustainability and proportionality must be the founding criteria of the customs code. the penalties must be proportionate and therefore cannot be based on the value of the goods because this could lead to a disproportionate system where a minor infringement committed in relation to a high value commodity could have disastrous consequences for the undertaking. we must link the amount of the penalty to the financial consequences of the infringement. customs authorities should also take into account the costs of litigation, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, and consequently provide for the possibility of a settlement procedure, which should be designed to ensure consistency across the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the directive in question, which provides for an integrated approach to the application of customs legislation, including penalties. without a common approach, it is not possible for the customs administrations of the member states to act as a single administration, especially in view of the considerable differences between the sanctioning systems of the member states. these differences create a lack of mutual trust between administrations, while trust and cooperation between customs authorities are essential for the good functioning of the customs union and the protection of the eu's financial interests. the directive aims to harmonise the application of customs legislation, to ensure uniform implementation of the penalties system and to allow economic operators to compete on equal terms in the european union. the final vote on the dossier was not taken because the european parliament's negotiating team was given a mandate to try to reach an agreement at first reading in the trilogue.
in writing. ‒ although the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union, there is no integrated approach to sanctions. the european court of justice has recently ruled that differences in the level of penalties have an effect equivalent to quantitative restrictions and a proposal has therefore been prepared by the commission. parliament (including myself) voted in favour by a large majority, but it is known that the file is facing strong resistance in the council from some member states.
in writing. ‒ the customs union and trade policy are the pillars of our european single market. an efficient customs regime requires clear rules, transparency and an integrated approach. i believe that the proposal for a directive on the legal framework of the union for customs infringements and penalties is moving in this direction, precisely with the aim of creating an integrated approach to the application of customs legislation, including penalties. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the differences between the customs sanctions at national level are substantially considerable restrictions on the integration of the customs system: in a system based on common rules, it is not permissible for member states to apply different penalties. finally, convergence between sanctions systems is necessary not only to enable the eu to comply with external obligations, especially under the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt), but also to effectively tackle breaches of european rules.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal for harmonisation on customs infringements and penalties, since it was unacceptable to have a common customs policy without the application of the same penalties. the community approach thus achieved will make it possible to eliminate disparities which could jeopardize the proper functioning of the internal market. in addition, this will also provide greater certainty for our enterprises: in today's world, where foreign trade is a key to success, a thorough knowledge of the penalties for trafficking is essential. in this connection, i would like to recall that the epp has been waging a real battle to ensure that sanctions are not linked to the value of goods but are proportionate to the value of the duties evaded. in addition, non-criminal sanctions are provided for in relation to customs infringements, while criminal sanctions are provided for where the nature and gravity of the circumstance so require. in addition to what has been said so far, a scale of penalties is also introduced which is commensurate with the seriousness of the infringement itself, but it requires a commitment on the part of the member states to ensure that the authorities in charge are as competent as possible to decide at the appropriate time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to improve the proposal for a directive because i consider it important that action has been taken, the main objective of which is to harmonise the approach to customs infringements and penalties in order to give greater regulatory certainty to companies by focusing on penalties proportionate to the duties evaded, thus also better protecting smes.
in writing. ‒ the current disparity between the member states' legal systems on customs infringements and penalties not only affects the optimal management of the customs union, but also prevents the creation of fair conditions of competition for economic operators as it affects their access to customs simplifications and facilitations. i therefore believe that the establishment of a common legal framework for the treatment of customs infringements and related sanctions would bridge the gap between different legal regimes through a common regulatory platform and would thus contribute to achieving equal treatment of economic operators in the eu, as well as the effective protection of the financial interests of the union and the application of customs legislation.
in writing. the measures contained in the proposal aim to harmonise the rules on infringements and penalties. the rules are currently applied in the same way across the eu, but there are no rules to regulate infringements and penalties, creating a state of uncertainty for businesses. it is therefore considered that convergence of sanctioning regimes is necessary to enable the eu to comply with its external obligations under the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). the commission's proposal to create a common approach in this direction is part of this approach. we have had several debates on the wording of this proposal during the internal negotiations in parliament, but i support the final text put to the vote. i believe that in order to ensure that penalties are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, it is important to leave the customs authorities sufficient scope to assess the circumstances of the case.
in writing. ‒ the growth of trade has made it increasingly necessary to crack down on customs infringements. the european union has complete harmonization of customs legislation, but its application, including the imposition of customs penalties, remains the responsibility of the member states. we support this report because it aims, among other things, to reconcile the different legal regimes through a common rules platform and to improve the level playing field between the different economic players involved. we believe that this text is a good compromise, since it explicitly lists common infringements and establishes a common scale of administrative sanctions. the existence of divergent penalties is deeply problematic both for the operators themselves and for trade relations in general, as it creates, within the customs union, arbitrage possibilities in terms of unequal administrative costs between member states, making some more attractive than others. the report proposed is designed to avoid these imbalances.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration as i fully agree that the disparity in the legal systems of the member states is a problem. this disparity in the level of infringements and penalties not only affects the optimal management of the customs union but also prevents the creation of fair conditions of competition for operators. it should not be underestimated that this disparity in treatment leads to a lack of transparency as to the type and manner in which sanctions are applied in the various member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the customs legislation of the european union has been fully harmonised for almost 45 years now, but its implementation and the application of the relevant sanctions remain the responsibility of the member states. the differences in the legal traditions of the member states have thus led to a wide variation in the way infringements are punished in the various countries and, consequently, to a distortion of competition which is more damaging to some undertakings than others, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. the customs union is one of the eu's most important successes, even from a symbolic point of view. it would be a mistake to consider it done, however, when it is necessary to proceed in the direction of harmonizing the definitions of infringements, the penalties for infringements and cooperation between the customs agencies of the member states. the aim must be to improve the transparency and clarity of the system, ensuring that all economic operators are treated on the same terms as they should be in a genuine single market. i therefore support this resolution and i hope that the council will also follow its political direction and constructive approach.
in writing. ‒ although the customs union is considered one of the foundations of the european union and a pillar of the single market, there is still no integrated approach to the application of customs legislation as regards penalties. this means that the rules are the same but that, in the event of infringement, the penalties applied differ significantly. the customs union and trade policy are the exclusive competence of the european union, which is why only the eu can develop a common approach to ensure that customs legislation is applied. this report clarifies the scope of the directive to ensure that only offences committed by negligence or intention are considered criminal offences, thus eliminating the twisted mechanism of objective liability, which does not provide for any element of fault. therefore, intentional infringements may be subject to criminal sanctions above a specific threshold in order to allow member states to take measures which are sufficiently dissuasive to punish fraudulent behaviour. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal for a directive must be seen in the context of the trade facilitation agreement. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ the fight against breaches of union customs legislation has become central with the increase in trade at a significant level with the growth of international trade. in the eu, although customs legislation is fully harmonised, its application and the imposition of legal penalties are a matter for national competence. i therefore welcome this proposal which aims to bridge the gap between the different legal regimes by creating a common platform of rules and improving the level playing field between economic operators in the customs union.
in writing. ‒ following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and in brussels in march 2016, all european institutions have reviewed their security needs in the short and medium term. draft amending budget no 3 for the financial year 2016 therefore proposes to strengthen the budget for staff security - by increasing cyber security and overall building security - by a total of eur 15,8 million. for the european parliament, 35 new posts are to be created for the recruitment of additional security officers to provide armed protection at strategic points in the three service locations. while aware of the importance of a sensitive subject such as safety, the decision of the european parliament to internalise these 35 new units as civil servants, after the drivers, raises a number of questions. i believe that the security of the institutions should be guaranteed by the host countries, which benefit greatly from their presence. in addition, even as a professional preparation, it would seem more sensible to turn to trained personnel or possibly certified security agencies. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks that have shocked europe over the past two years, and in particular the one that struck the belgian capital on 22 march, have led the eu institutions to re-examine their respective security needs. i voted in favour of the fernandes-deprez report because i believe that it is essential to strengthen the budget for security within the institutions in this context. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures provided for in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty (oj c 180, 1.7.2016, p. 1).
in writing. ‒ although there are passages in the text that can be shared, the way in which this decision was taken and some of the choices that i consider questionable have led me to express an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 because it proposes to reinforce the expenditure for security of both european schools and institutions. we are facing hard times after the terrible terrorist attacks that held in paris and in brussels and mainly for that reason i think right security provisions have to be taken.
in writing. ‒ following the attacks in france and belgium, all the institutions have reviewed their security needs in the short and medium term. the draft budget for 2017 contains additional elements relating to security for almost all the institutions. in some cases, however, the need to accelerate the strengthening of security measures and facilities requires the allocation of additional resources already in 2016. draft amending budget (dab) no 3 for the financial year 2016 proposes to strengthen the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million. this leads to an increase in non-differentiated expenditure in the 2016 budget for heading 5 (administration). however, it is proposed to reallocate the necessary payment appropriations to the iter operational line of heading 1a, in order to avoid any consequences on the overall level of payments. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the medium term. as the purpose of this pbr is to cover non-differentiated appropriations, this amount must correspond to commitments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the recent terrorist attacks have led the eu institutions to re-examine their security needs and identify the need for additional resources as early as 2016. amending budget no 3/2016 therefore proposes to strengthen the security budget by a total amount of eur 15,8 million, to be allocated to the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. amending budget no 3/2016 also provides for the creation of 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of additional security staff at the european parliament. those posts, covering a new activity, should be maintained in the 2017 budget and therefore excluded from the 5% reduction target.
in writing. ‒ following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and in brussels in march 2016, the european institutions have reviewed their security needs. draft amending budget no 3 for the financial year 2016 proposes to strengthen the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million. both the cybersecurity and the overall security of the buildings are increased. the european parliament is being asked to create 35 new posts of additional security officers in the three seats. the impact on the general budget is neutral, as the additional resources come from a transfer of an under-utilized budget line, but the proposal provides that the new security units will be classified as officials of the european institutions. it would be right, and probably safer, if the security of the institutions were guaranteed by the host countries - which benefit considerably from their presence - through the use of trained personnel or certified security agencies. i therefore voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the tragic terrorist attacks in the european union this year, and in particular the tragic attack in brussels on 22 march 2016, which was an attack on the heart of europe, security has become a priority outside and inside the european institutions. the european union is therefore obliged to re-examine its security needs and to identify the need for additional resources within its structures. that is why i thought i should vote in favour of the report which strengthens the budget for security within the institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report, which aims to increase the current budget by eur 15.8 million. while the measures financed include useful safety measures, there are many questions about the decision to take on additional staff through outsourced contracts.
in writing. ‒ on a cold january morning, europe woke up to find out after years what fear and horror meant; on a friday night in mid-november, she witnessed the bataclan massacre. finally, in the early spring, he witnessed the lives cut short in zaventem. we suddenly became aware of a vulnerability that was hidden under the covers of our culture and our civilization. i hope that by voting in favour of increasing the appropriations for the security of the institutions, the prevention of possible terrorist attacks will bring us back to a state of calm. the need for additional resources is thus essential and, consequently, the eur 15,8 million reinforcement is inevitable. the largest part of this amount will go to the european schools to ensure that everyone who decides to grow up embracing our cultural heritage has the safest and healthiest environment possible. i also take this opportunity to wish the 35 new additional security officers recruited by the european parliament a successful job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it became necessary to strengthen the budget for the security of several eu institutions also following the terrorist attacks of november 2015 in paris and those of march 2016 in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the attacks struck at the heart of europe, in brussels, the european capital with all its institutions. it is therefore necessary to invest in improved security at the premises of the european institutions in all its locations. i am voting in favour of this text which stresses the need for more security staff in all the institutions, and in particular in the european parliament. the challenge to terrorism must be won in terms of social and cultural integration in the long term, no doubt intelligence is the key to its success, but in the short term institutions have a duty to protect employees in their daily lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the level of security in the european institutions must be increased to protect, first of all, those who work in them, but also their symbolic value. the terrorist attack on maalbeek station, a few metres from the premises of the european parliament, the european commission and the committee of the regions, in brussels on 22 march, is proof that the institutions are a sensitive target for terrorists.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining from the text because i am discussing some points concerning the increase in the budget for security, but i agree with the issue of the safety of children in european schools.
in writing. amending budget no 3/2016 provides for a transfer of appropriations from the 2016 european budget to strengthen the security budget and to adjust the resources to the needs of the european institutions. following the terrorist attacks of the last few months, i believe that it is necessary to increase security measures also in our institutions, which are indeed a place of work, but where we welcome thousands of european citizens visiting us every year. i therefore vote in favour of the transfer.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. recent events, and i am referring in particular to the terrorist attacks on european soil, have led the eu institutions to re-examine their security needs and to strengthen the budget in this area. in view of these priorities, the institutions have therefore made some changes to the budget, providing for the creation of 35 permanent posts for the recruitment of security staff in the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the recent terrorist attacks in europe, it is necessary to strengthen the security measures of the eu institutions. i have therefore decided to approve the amending budget, which strengthens the security budget by a total of eur 15.8 million, which will be invested, for example, in the recruitment of additional staff, the purchase of equipment and training, in order to improve the security of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ following the attacks in paris and brussels, all the european institutions have reviewed their security needs in the short and medium term. draft amending budget no 3 for the financial year 2016 proposes to strengthen the security budget by a total of eur 15,8 million. in particular, cybersecurity and the overall security of buildings are being enhanced to better protect staff working within the eu institutions. the european parliament is to be given 35 new posts for the recruitment of additional security officers to provide armed protection at strategic points inside the buildings in the three service locations. the impact on the general budget is neutral, as the additional resources come from a transfer of an under-utilized budget line. while i am aware that the security of the institutions needs special attention, i do not agree that parliament, after the drivers, now wants to internalise these 35 new units, which will be officially classified as officials of the european institutions. i believe that the security of the institutions should be guaranteed by the host countries or, where appropriate, by certified security agencies providing trained personnel.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the future of eu-iran relations following the so-called 'nuclear deal' (jcpoa). it has opted for a constructive approach without overly punishing the country for its still critical human rights situation, hoping that a report acceptable to the iranian government will be more useful to the moderate wing in its battle against the conservative part of the government and can therefore lead to real progress on human rights and civil liberties in the country in the medium term. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for the following reasons: iran has so far fully complied with the nuclear deal and the prospect of real change is in sight.
in writing. ‒ the iran nuclear deal represented a historic turning point in relations between the asian country and other states, a crucial step that takes on even greater value given iran's geopolitical and strategic importance in the middle east region. the howitt report, which i supported today, sets out the next steps which the european union must take to make this phase even more fruitful. the text indicates several areas which should be considered in order to start a fruitful cooperation with iran: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. these are just some of the main areas where it could have a positive impact. the great opportunities must, however, be accompanied, as the text stresses, by a firm condemnation of the constant violations of human rights. the union's commitment today must be to strengthen cooperation and political dialogue to promote the establishment of the rule of law in iran.
in writing. ‒ the text on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement contains some positive points, but there are still several obvious criticisms, so i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on the eu strategy toward iran after the nuclear agreement with the aim of strengthening our political dialogue and developing both trade and sectoral cooperation in specific fields such as energy, environment, aviation safety and migration. secondly, i believe iran might play a constructive role in solving the political crisis in iraq, yemen, syria, lebanon and afghanistan. lastly, i am glad that data concerning the characteristics of iranian university’s students proved that the majority of them are women and i am glad that the president rohani promised to present a charter for citizens’ rights. nevertheless, i am still concerned about the practice of death penalty by iran and i stand up for its abolition.
in writing. ‒ the action plan that led to the nuclear agreement with iran was a major success of diplomacy and the multilateral approach to the problem. a significant part of the credit for this achievement goes to the european union, which from the outset has made a peaceful and negotiating attitude and the desire to stabilise the whole area the founding principles of its action. today we must proceed along this line, watching out for those who would undermine the peace and the agreements reached, and therefore holding all parties responsible for ensuring their rigorous and full implementation. to this end, the establishment of the joint committee, composed of representatives of iran and the e3/eu+3 group (china, france, germany, the russian federation, the united kingdom and the united states with the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy) is welcome and it is necessary to fully support the european representation in the role of coordinator of the joint committee with the task of monitoring the implementation of all the terms of the agreement. the opening up of iran to trade with the eu and the investment and development opportunities for our companies in iran, which can lead to a mutually beneficial partnership in the medium and long term, are also significant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement because the agreement reached last year is an important achievement that must be safeguarded and monitored to ensure that it is fully respected. however, a new era of relations and peace between the european union and iran must necessarily be followed by a new course that the country will have to take in respect of individual rights and freedoms. this is why europe must strongly condemn the frequent use of the death penalty in iran and call for an immediate moratorium on executions.
in writing. ‒ the iran nuclear deal is certainly a great diplomatic success that brings back to the negotiating table a regional player as crucial to the balance of the entire middle east, such as iran, perhaps one of the few successes in recent years. i voted in favour of the motion. a vote of encouragement for the progress that the current haroni-led executive is making in the country. a vote that does not forget the serious situation of human rights, that does not forget the use of the death penalty even on minors, although, remember, that is certainly not the country with the highest number in the world, that is china, but it seems that many forget when talking about the example of the chinese mes; it also does not forget censorship and it does not forget holocaust denial. but i think we need a positive attitude, an attitude which led to the conclusion of the treaty itself, an attitude which we must preserve if the moderate wing is to prevail in its battle against the conservative wing.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the howitt report because i believe it was a remarkable achievement for european diplomacy, responsible for ensuring that the agreements reached were strictly and fully implemented, but also for maintaining the spirit of negotiations which is beneficial for the people of iran and the european union. the report is the result of a long process in the foreign affairs committee and was adopted in the spirit of compromise between the main political groups in parliament. i hope that the adoption of this report will help to promote the gradual expansion of cooperation in a climate of confidence, especially for the benefit of the people of iran and the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report contains the european parliament's contribution to the development of relations between the european union and iran, one year after the nuclear agreement between the middle eastern country and the international community. the report, for which i voted in favour, supports the agreement, which is an example of multilateral dialogue, achieved thanks to the contribution of vice-president mogherini, who had the difficult task of monitoring and implementing the outcome of the negotiations. i am convinced that cooperation with iran offers great potential in areas such as trade, environmental protection, aviation safety and academic exchanges. i am glad that the report has taken up the need to extend diplomatic relations between iran and saudi arabia in order to stabilize the political situation in the middle east. i hope, however, that the beginning of a lasting cooperation can be the starting point for a decisive improvement in the human rights situation in the country. there are still too many reports of executions, the detention of political prisoners and other serious human rights violations in iran.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreements reached, i recognise that it was not easy and i hope that the text adopted will allow the objectives set by both sides to be fully achieved. the joint comprehensive plan of action, the international nuclear energy agreement with iran, concluded in vienna on 14 july 2015, represents a historic breakthrough in diplomatic relations and a success of the european modus operandi. this will only be possible if close contact is developed on multilateral issues with civil society actors and ngos, as increased trade relations are essential for the completion of the promised reforms by iran. the only way to open up new and fruitful opportunities for our enterprises is for the islamic republic of iran to liberalize its economic system (currently 70% of the economy is in the hands of the state). it should be noted that investment opportunities are present in several areas, primarily in the energy sector, given the great potential of renewable energies. the role of iran as a regional stabilizer is an urgent need of the entire international community, and it can only be achieved by the adoption of reforms on human rights and fundamental freedoms by the islamic republic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that the nuclear agreement (jcpoa) with iran has been an important achievement for european diplomacy and that it is now also europe's responsibility not only to ensure its full implementation, but also to support the opening of eu-iran relations to the benefit of both sides by strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation in a climate of mutual trust.
in writing. ‒ the iran nuclear deal has reopened diplomatic and trade relations between iran and the international community, with all nuclear-related sanctions against the republic of iran lifted following the implementation of the commitments made in the agreement. this will not only improve eu-iran relations politically, economically and culturally, but also strengthen the country's role in regional stabilisation. this increased scope for cooperation between iran and the eu to address issues of mutual interest must not, however, neglect respect for human rights. i voted in favour of this resolution because, on the one hand, it takes account of the opportunities for cooperation between the eu and iran - for example, the promotion of interparliamentary dialogue, the establishment by the eeas of an iranian task force to coordinate iran's different lines of action, the contribution to the eu's energy security and the increase in trade to achieve iran's target of an 8% annual growth rate; reiterates the european union's opposition to the death penalty, irrespective of the case and the circumstances, and stresses that the abolition of the death penalty is a key objective of the eu's foreign policy and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the historic nuclear agreement with iran an unquestioned success of european diplomacy and the result of the work of high representative federica mogherini has led to a gradual normalisation and a significant improvement in bilateral relations between the eu and iran. the agreement also had the merit of reopening the iranian market to european companies, especially italian ones, which moved in advance in the months immediately following the lifting of sanctions. in this new scenario, which i hope will allow for further strengthening of mutually beneficial economic cooperation and increased regional stability, the union will need to be able to exploit the many opportunities and opportunities that are offered to us. at present, eu trade with iran is $8 billion, but it is expected to quadruple in absolute value over the next two years. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
in writing. ‒ the strategy recognises the economic and political benefits for iran and the eu as a result of the iran nuclear deal and the lifting of sanctions. the line of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is to support both the advancement of economic trade and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the death penalty. iran has the highest per capita execution rate in the world, hanging homosexuals and stoning women. the strategy calls for the abolition of the death penalty for minors and drug traffickers. that is why i voted for the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that the nuclear agreement concluded between the european union and iran does not provide sufficient clarity on the impact it may have in the middle east, with particular reference to the conflict between iran and saudi arabia, the syrian conflict and relations with israel.
in writing. ‒ i thank mr howitt for drawing up this important report on the development of european-iranian relations since the nuclear agreement a year ago. i would also like to stress and recall the important work of federica mogherini as chair of the joint committee responsible for assessing the implementation of the agreement. the report highlights the different possible areas of cooperation with iran, in particular trade, environment, university, aviation security. these areas of cooperation must not, however, be developed without concealing or covering up the numerous cases of human rights violations reported in iran: it is therefore right that the howitt report calls for a concrete commitment to the implementation of international standards, in particular on the rights of opposition, of prisoners and a moratorium on the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement because i believe that this is a historic, fundamental and decisive agreement for world peace. i believe that the eu's contribution to the agreement and the work of high representative federica mogherini were decisive in bringing about this positive outcome. i therefore share the view expressed in it that this agreement is a success of multilateral diplomacy, although it must be implemented, but it can open the way to strong cooperation between iran and the eu in many areas, such as energy sources, trade, environmental issues, aviation safety. iran is the second largest economy in the middle east, and european investment will be key to accelerating the country's transition. but let us not forget the problem of security and regional equilibrium, and i therefore call on iran and saudi arabia to engage in a dialogue for peace, avoiding all forms of hostility and putting an end to the atrocities committed in various parts of the middle east. we are also calling on iran, as a precondition for any further rapprochement, to pay greater attention to respect for human rights, civil liberties and civil liberties, and we will continue to monitor its behaviour closely.
in writing. in this report, parliament encourages the union to build a relationship of trust with iran, leading to cooperation based on common interests, and reiterates the need for all member states to work closely with iran in order to create a stable relationship aimed at the effective implementation of the nuclear agreement. the report also highlights the current situation in iran, recalling that the country hosts the largest number of refugees in the world and, referring to the recent un report, expressing concern about the level of protection of human rights and calling for the implementation of the measures proposed by the un general assembly and respect for international law. i therefore vote in favour of mr howitt's report.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the report on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. the agreement constitutes an important milestone for multilateral diplomacy, which should, in accordance with the covenants, foster the development of iran's relations with the contracting states, as well as promote renewed geopolitical stability in the region; in particular, we welcome the establishment of the joint committee, composed of representatives of iran and the e3/eu+3 group (china, france, germany, russian federation, united kingdom and united states with the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy). the european union recognises that the lifting of sanctions is a necessary condition for the establishment of a new era in diplomatic and economic relations with iran. in this context, it takes note of the detailed guidance provided on the scope of the sanctions lifted and those that remain in place. for iran to fully benefit from the lifting of sanctions, it is also important that the obstacles related to economic and fiscal policy, the business environment and the rule of law are overcome. the european parliament has voted to reaffirm its commitment to further develop relations with iran.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the nuclear agreement with iran, which aims to improve relations with that country, i am pleased to note that the agreement also aims to promote stability throughout the region. it should not be underestimated that iran is the second largest economy in the middle east and that restoring access to the global trading system governed by general rules can become a way to break iran's isolation and that trade can become an important tool to consolidate political dialogue and stimulate cooperation between the countries of the region.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines that the eu and iran have decided to address issues of mutual interest in a constructive manner and that they intend to pave the way for long-term cooperation. the revolutionary legacy of iran and its nature as an islamic republic, as well as the main differences in political and institutional systems, should not be an obstacle to opening and seeking frank and direct dialogue and common ground on issues related to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. to this end, it should be underlined that eu-iran cooperation in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism is an extremely important part of the political dialogue between the two sides. i am confident that the nuclear agreement can pave the way for cooperation to resolve the crises in the middle east region. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of more constructive relations with iran must be governed by the progress made by the country on issues of regional concern such as the civil war in syria and the fight against all forms of terrorism and its causes, but also in areas such as economic development, trade agreements, the rule of law and the promotion of human rights. i am particularly concerned about the latter aspect, since i see no progress on this subject. i hope that this will be given serious consideration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu's post-nuclear iran strategy. in particular, this report is a further contribution to the development of eu-iran relations. the report strongly supports the plan as an example of successful multilateral diplomacy. the report outlines areas of possible cooperation with iran, such as trade, environmental protection, aviation security, academic exchanges, etc. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the threat of a nuclear war. criticises the high number of executions; the european union has also been involved in the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is a key instrument in the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. finally, it called on iran to cooperate fully with the un human rights mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted today addresses the future of eu-iran relations following the so-called nuclear deal (jcpoa). the rapporteur has chosen to draft it in a constructive way, hoping that a report acceptable to the iranian government would be more useful to the moderate wing in its battle against the conservative part of the government and could therefore lead to real progress in the medium term on human rights and civil liberties in the country. iran has so far fully complied with the nuclear agreement and there is a prospect of real change if the eu and the international community are able to build on the positive momentum in bilateral relations created by the jcpoa. the references to the human rights situation are there, and while it is true that they could have been clearer and more incisive, i think the rapporteur is right when he says that this is the time to build, not to destroy, to achieve in the future what the many criticisms of the past have failed to achieve. for all these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to continue to have a constructive dialogue with iran. unfortunately, the eu's role has been too weak so far. to realise the enormous potential of this bilateral relationship, iran and the eu need to engage in a strategic dialogue that goes beyond the facade. it is in the interest of both parties to develop closer cooperation in areas such as the environment, migration management, transport and energy, education and humanitarian issues. the need to initiate and sustain a dialogue on a new security architecture for the middle east is at stake. the question of human rights is a vital issue that must be addressed in all possible venues. it is not acceptable to ignore the worrying use of the death penalty, the persecution of minorities, the arrests of activists and the discrimination against women. i personally hope that the opening up of iran to the international dimension will be a stimulus to improving the internal situation and i believe that it is essential to establish a structured approach, free from paternalistic attitudes, in order to achieve more fruitful cooperation also on these issues.
mr president, i voted for this report, but i have two points with which i disagree, which is why i am using this institution to make it clear that i am 90% in favour of the agreement, that it is good that we are fighting corruption and strengthening cooperation between the individual member states, but as i have already indicated, i have two objections. firstly, i do not think that what the agreement contains, namely the unification of substantive criminal law at european level, is correct. personally, i think, as someone who's done a lot of research on this subject in the past, that this is an illusion to some degree. and then i disagree with the part of this material that supports the european public prosecutor's office. but the majority of the document is good, it strengthens the fight against corruption, which is why, despite these two objections, i endorsed the material.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the resolution because i believe that the issue of corruption is a fundamental issue for the future of the peoples of europe and because i share the overall approach in this resolution to the fight against corruption, as a fight against organized crime but also as a major social issue. the fight against corruption has very important social consequences, as we can see from the experiences of the anti-mafia movement in my country, italy. some practical suggestions. we ask that the commission publish its second report on the fight against corruption, which is expected for the beginning of 2016 but has not yet been received. we are asking for a change of approach in this report and for the direct involvement of the european institutions, not just the individual member states, to be taken into account, just as we are calling for the establishment of the european public prosecutor.
in writing. ‒ the report makes proposals and recommendations to the european institutions and member states to strengthen the fight against corruption and organised crime, including: the call for a european definition of a mafia-type criminal organisation, following the example of article 416a of the italian criminal code; the recognition of the key role of whistleblowers in the fight against corruption and malpractices; the call on the member states and the commission to improve and ensure transparency in public procurement through the establishment of an e-procurement system, by creating blacklists to include companies with proven links to organised crime, by facilitating the rotation of public officials and by preventing those convicted of crimes related to organised crime or corruption from participating in elections or working in the public administration; measures to combat tax havens; the commission has also proposed to increase the penalties and introduce new categories of crime within the so-called environmental crimes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ organized crime, owing to its adaptability and tendency to diversify its activities, is increasingly a global threat that requires strong action by the european union and its member states. beyond the greater dangers to public order linked to the manifestations of violence typical of criminal organisations, criminal penetration into the legal economy is particularly damaging, which is also achieved through the development of corrupt conduct towards officials and the consequent infiltration into institutions and public administration. the ferrara report, which i supported today, stresses the need to adopt a european action plan to eliminate organised crime, corruption and money laundering. this requires not only adequate financial resources and qualified staff but also a comprehensive and integrated approach to the problem. the transposition and correct implementation of existing rules, monitoring of their application and evaluation of their effectiveness are to be ensured. the existing legislation needs to be revised to introduce effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and it is necessary to clarify common definitions of offences and common methods for the seizure of property.
in writing. ‒ although the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution is in many respects agreeable, it contains some important criticisms which have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i cast my vote for this resolution on the fight against corruption because it reiterates the recommendations expressed in the 2013 crim resolution which i share. in particular, it calls for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, which i think should be adequately financed. furthermore, it calls on the commission to initiate infringement proceedings in case european and international instruments have not been adopted by the member states. indeed, i strongly believe that a serious approach to the fight against crime has to be adopted and a more coordinated response by the eu and the member states needs to be delivered.
in writing. ‒ organised crime, corruption and money laundering have a transnational dimension and encompass a wide range of criminal activities. the eradication of this dimension requires the introduction of national databases, the support of eu instruments and a european action plan, and the active participation of international and regional organisations, in the public and private sectors, based on transparency and mutual accountability. corruption is one of the main obstacles to development today, especially in developing countries, where it hijacks much of the funding that they receive. the european union should take a more active role in providing financial and technical assistance to these countries, developing a strong and comprehensive strategy for managing the risk of corruption in them. member states must make full use of the measures already in place against such crimes and it is essential to promote common investigative techniques. progress must be made on international cooperation to combat the trafficking of human beings from which crime derives great profits. transparency is the most effective tool to combat abuse and fraud; the commission has also proposed that the data be published on the basis of the data collected by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that criminal organisations have changed their way of working and now have the support of professionals, banks, officials and politicians who, although not affiliated with the criminal organisation, support its activities at various levels. the danger of intimidating force arising from mere membership of an association is not a priority in the fight against the 'end-crimes' for which the association was created. this has left a regulatory and operational vacuum at european level, facilitating the transnational activities of organised criminal groups. the current eu policy cycle for the fight against organised crime must therefore place an emphasis on countering organised crime and provide for the punishability of membership of an association to commit crime irrespective of the commission of the offence. the fight against money laundering, corruption and human trafficking must also be included among the priorities in order to put in place a genuine european anti-corruption strategy. cross-border police cooperation should be strengthened and information sharing at member state level facilitated through europol and eurojust, thus ensuring greater use of joint investigation teams.
in writing. ‒ your excellent report starts from the basis of the outcome of the crim special committee, which worked between 2012 and 2013 to identify the actions needed to combat organised crime at european level. the report, starting from those aspects which have not yet been implemented, focuses on the most important priority issues for the current historical moment and makes proposals and recommendations. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan on the fight against corruption, which aims to improve the fight against organised crime and to promote the fight against organised crime. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution because i think that the fight against corruption and organised crime is essential. organized crime is an endemic and global threat, a cancer with widespread metastases that requires rapid and effective joint treatment with adequate financial resources and competent human resources. i renew my call on the commission to publish the second report on corruption as soon as possible, including a focus on the european institutions to verify and monitor their presence. at the same time, i believe that it is the commission's duty to draw up a thorough study of the most advanced legislation on the fight against organised crime and corruption in order to develop more efficient and advanced european regulatory instruments. in line with my vote, i am deeply convinced that investment in the culture of legality should be increased, not only to make future generations more aware of the problem and thus better, but also to raise awareness of the human, social and economic damage caused by these phenomena. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the member states are able to use them to the full.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, despite many positive steps, some critical points remain, such as the decriminalisation of soft drugs and the applause for the establishment of the european public prosecutor.
in writing. ‒ by approving the report by mrs ferrara, to whom i have offered my full support, the european parliament is taking a further step forward in the fight against corruption and organised crime. at a time of such delicate concern for europe as the one we are living in, when we are faced with the threat of terrorism, it is urgent to face up to our inadequacies and security gaps and, despite the great progress made, to push the integrity accelerator, calling for wider and more stringent preventive control measures, the strengthening of judicial and police cooperation and maximum transparency and traceability in economic operations, in order to curb money laundering and criminal permeability. corruption is a threat, and it costs europe some 120 billion a year: the eu cannot wait, but must respond urgently with a solid, homogeneous and shared plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution, because i believe that following up the research and synthesis work through the final report of the crim committee adopted by the ep during the last parliamentary term is significant of the importance that the ep attaches to the fight against mafias and organised crime. the main purpose of organized crime is profit; it is therefore essential that law enforcement agencies have the necessary capabilities to target the channels of financing, which are often inseparable from corruption, fraud, counterfeiting and smuggling. i therefore shared the need to make the fight against crime a priority and to do this europe needs an operational structure for the fight against organised crime and corruption, but above all it is necessary to create a stronger legal framework and in which priorities are defined in correlation with european crime prevention policies and with economic, social, employment and education policies, ensuring full integration of the european parliament. finally, i agreed with the call on the commission to draw up minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and penalties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it allows us to draw attention to some of the most terrible scourges afflicting our territories: corruption and organised crime. it is right that the european institutions continue the path started with crim (the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering) and do more and better for more efficient judicial and police cooperation at eu level, a stronger legislative framework, more efficient judicial and police cooperation at eu level, and still to target the assets of criminal organisations and promote their social reuse, as well as to prevent the infiltration of organised crime and corruption into the legal economy. we therefore await the publication of the commission's second report on the fight against corruption and we strongly urge that adequate resources be allocated to the european action plan to eliminate organised crime, corruption and money laundering. in conclusion, we also need to invest more, also as individual member states, in building a genuine culture of legality that is pervasive in our societies, because only then can we prevent the emergence of those grey areas where organised crime has always flourished.
in writing. we all agree on the need to step up our efforts to fight corruption and crime. the motion for a resolution adopted by parliament today is the result of the crim committee's analysis of the european situation and at the same time contains a number of proposals for new policies and actions. the various recommendations include a call for a review of european anti-corruption legislation; to create european rules for the confiscation of the assets of criminal organisations and for the protection of whistleblowers; to establish a specialised europol unit to combat criminal groups; to draw up a list of all companies which have committed offences and to ensure that they are excluded from any links with public administration and european funds; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's anti-corruption strategy and to provide the necessary information to the relevant authorities. a call for a set of measures to be defined to combat corruption, which not only burdens our institutions but also all citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up of the crim resolution. organised crime, corruption, fraud, and money laundering, among others, are serious issues that need to be tackled effectively as their impact is affecting european nationals and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i felt it was my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration, as i fully agree with my colleague that organised crime is global and therefore requires a joint response from the european union. whereas criminal groups sometimes participate in administrative and political life in order to gain access to the financial resources available to public authorities; i therefore believe that the member states must intensify their efforts to combat this negative phenomenon, coordinating themselves in such a way as to give a joint and effective response. i am also convinced that the union has a duty to promote the fight against organised crime by promoting greater cooperation between its members, and i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to keep a high focus on combating the activities of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, ensuring a strategy and effective action on these sensitive issues, to prevent their influence from spreading in the european economy and throughout society. at a time of economic hardship and when all attention seems to be focused on the terrorist threat, it would be inexcusable to let our guard down on these problems. i am therefore pleased to note that, as this report shows, there is a broad consensus on the need to give a new impetus to the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering by ensuring that the rules are applied and improved, and by closing existing loopholes. i therefore hope that effective and appropriate legislative instruments will be developed in the short term to combat mafia-style crime, to prevent banks from being complicit in money laundering operations and, at the same time, to establish and implement the long-awaited, but crucial, european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ organised crime is a global threat which as such requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states. unfortunately, there is still a lack of full awareness today of the complexity of the mafia-type associative phenomenon and of the danger arising from the infiltration of criminal associations into the social, economic-business, political and institutional fabric of the member states. this resolution calls on the commission to propose, on the basis of an assessment of the transposition and application of existing rules, regulatory measures to address any shortcomings in the fight against organised crime and to improve crossborder judicial cooperation. i believe that it is a matter of priority to take concrete action to improve european coordination in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering and to raise awareness of the social and economic damage caused by these phenomena. the fight against organised crime must be pursued with determination by the common european institutions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved a five-star report by our colleague laura ferrara. the report focuses on some of the priority issues for the current historical moment and makes proposals and recommendations to the european institutions and the member states to strengthen the fight against corruption and organised crime. the report calls for the first time in history to introduce the crime of association with mafia-type criminals at european level, following the example of article 416a of the italian penal code, in order to combat mafia-related crimes. our proposal on the release of prisoners was approved by the european parliament: calls for those who have been convicted of crimes related to organised crime, money laundering, corruption or other serious crimes against the public administration not to be allowed to stand for election or to work in public administration (including eu institutions, bodies and agencies). i believe that the adoption of this report is a great success for the movement which is proving to bring honesty and the fight against the mafia and corruption into the european institutions as well. my vote was therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's activities in the fight against crime are a key element in responding effectively to the phenomenon of organised crime. it is a global threat and as such requires a joint and adequate response by the european union and the member states. the crim committee has helped broaden the debate on the fight against corruption at international level by providing clear guidance on legislative action to be taken. it is essential to establish a common definition of organised crime in the eu in order to give effect to existing and future legislative instruments. it is not a matter of prosecuting the offence in a given state, it is a matter of combating complex phenomena which are not confined to the national borders of this or that member state. there is still no uniform definition of the types of crime, there are no provisions in many countries to combat organised crime and it is clear that any action to combat it at european and international level seems impossible. the european union must insist on combating organized crime and, in the context of a genuine and comprehensive european strategy, efforts and resources must be shared in the fight against money laundering, corruption and human trafficking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor again. i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament must continue to speak out on a situation which only creates victims. the flow of migrants to europe in recent years has put our reception system in a very difficult position, has overburdened some countries, such as mine, and has forced them to make considerable economic efforts. in other countries, however, it has led to the birth and, unfortunately, the gradual growth of populist and nationalist movements. this is the most dangerous aspect: to give in to fear and irrationality, to see the weakest as the enemy. the response to the migrant emergency which is no longer an emergency, since it is everyday life exists and this parliament has repeatedly reiterated it: the european union is also working on a number of cooperation and partnership agreements with african countries to deal with the causes and redistribution of migrants arriving on our shores in the 28 member states. the answer is not forced evictions like in calais, not walls and barbed wire like in hungary. this is not europe. europe is that of my region, sicily: the european union is the europe of welcome, and we expect that there will also be a europe of solidarity, of sharing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted strongly in favour of mrs vergiat's report because i believe that this report finally puts the question of how to deal with the migration challenge by placing the issue of respect for human rights as a priority and not repression, rejection, evictions such as those which are unfortunately happening in calais these very days. i believe that the agreement with turkey is the emblem, the expression of the european union's wrong approach to the question of migrants. we are now witnessing a growing number of complaints from humanitarian organizations against the treatment of refugees by the turkish authorities. for us, the road is the opening of safe passageways, the opening of humanitarian corridors, starting with those that are already being built from below, as the mediterranean hope project has shown us.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report addresses the phenomenon of migration flows in third countries in a coherent and balanced way, in a holistic perspective that takes account of the human dimension, including the positive aspect of demographic change and economic development. the human rights approach is also emphasised by requiring member states to ratify all the main international human rights instruments and to apply the rules on migrants' rights contained therein. the report stresses that the opening of safe and legal channels of migration is the best way to prevent trafficking in human beings. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ migration is a complex and multidimensional phenomenon, a global reality that today affects some 244 million people. different factors generate and influence migration flows, but a careful analysis of these factors makes it possible to anticipate their consequences and to devise appropriate policies. the vergiat report, which i supported today, tackles the issue of migration in a very effective way, linking it to the issue of human rights. the eu must ensure the protection of migrants' rights in order to be truly credible in the discussion on migration and human rights in third countries. responding to the migrant crisis today means first and foremost fighting for the respect of their rights, while at the same time establishing appropriate measures and policies for managing flows. integration must be promoted by focusing on education and work, and by recognising and preventing those forms of discrimination and violence to which women and lgbti people are subjected. the european union has a duty to act positively to eliminate the root causes of the migration crises and to do so it must necessarily resist the populist impulses that are manifesting themselves today in many of its member states. the only way to strengthen its foreign policy action is through solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the report on human rights in third countries is the usual publicity for the indiscriminate reception of various types of migrants, most of whom are not fleeing any war or persecution. this is the usual show of goodwill by those political forces who claim to be helping the rest of the world but who have no interest whatsoever in the problems of the european citizens, who are increasingly suffering from unemployment and poverty as a result of the economic crisis. i have always fought to help our citizens, to make this union change its course and take care first of our people and then of the rest of the world. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on human rights and migration in third countries because i wanted to express my solidarity with persons who are forced to leave their countries. moreover, i share with my colleagues the concern regarding human rights violations which are occurring especially in countries of transit. thus, the parliament stressed with this resolution the need to lead by example in the promotion of the human rights of migration in order to be credible in discussing with third countries.
in writing. ‒ people forced to flee their country because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations, famine or dire economic conditions must be treated with respect and dignity in both transit and destination countries. we are well aware that only by stabilising the areas of origin of migration flows can the phenomenon be stopped or at least mitigated and that this will take a long time: however, this cannot be an excuse for lowering our standards and failing to protect the personal dignity of those who come to us in objective need. the european union must strengthen its foreign policy in order to be more present in crisis areas and take direct action to prevent the outbreaks of regional instability from flaring up, and at the same time it must translate into concrete deeds its hopes for a common management of the phenomenon, the distribution of migrant quotas and the coordinated action of men and means to manage at european level and, hopefully in the near future also at federal level, this great challenge of the third millennium.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on human rights and migration to third countries because decisive responses are needed to deal with the exceptional wave of migration. europe needs to develop an integrated policy on migration. the majority of these people are forced to suffer serious human rights violations on their migration routes through transit countries. it is essential to improve the exchange of good practices with third countries by providing training to humanitarian workers so that they can more effectively identify the different characteristics, backgrounds and experiences of migrants, in particular the most vulnerable. in short, the european union must be able to build a genuine common partnership with third countries if it is to tackle the problem in an appropriate and coherent way.
in writing. ‒ ms vergiat's report stresses that the eu and its member states must set an example in promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, particularly within their borders, in order to be credible in the discussion on migration and human rights in third countries. the text also stresses that the opening of safe and legal channels of migration is the best way to prevent trafficking in human beings and that development strategies must recognise migration and mobility as drivers of development in both the host and the country of origin through economic remittances and investment. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report, for which i thought i would vote in favour, analyses the main causes of the mass migration phenomena we are witnessing today and makes some acceptable recommendations to improve the reception conditions for these populations. to date, some 65 million people have been forced to leave their home countries for humanitarian reasons linked to armed conflict or simply because of dire poverty. i believe that the european union, which is founded on respect for human rights enshrined in the charter of rights, must work to ensure that migrants are given a dignified welcome, with particular attention to the most vulnerable, such as minors, especially unaccompanied minors, who are entitled to specific protection because they are often the most defenseless victims of traffickers and criminal organisations. to this end, i believe it is essential that all the member states of the union ratify the conventions and treaties, giving effect to the rules on the rights of migrants. i welcome the fact that the report introduces specific provisions to improve the quality of life of migrants by giving them access to the health system, training courses and the labour market in order to facilitate their integration and inclusion in civil society.
in writing. ‒ i vote absolutely against this report which stresses the importance of migration in combating the demographic crisis and as a means of solving the problems of labour market failures. the report is, in my view, totally illogical and based on an unrealistic view of contemporary society.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i think that the report is not clear and does not take into account many aspects of the situation of migrants. i agree that particular attention should be paid to guaranteeing the rights of vulnerable groups such as women, children, disabled people and the elderly, who are most vulnerable to all kinds of danger, namely violence, trafficking or abuse, without neglecting all other categories of people. i do not think it is necessary to give greater importance to migrant associations, since integration should take place at the social level, without necessarily going through development programmes within communities, and i do not agree with the creation and application of mechanisms for the protection of migrants in transit and in emergency situations at the eu's borders. i think that debt relief for countries in poverty is of little use, because it would not necessarily be aimed at developing public policies that ensure respect for human rights. migration should not be seen as a means of solving specific problems linked to labour market failures, as this would lead to unemployment among young europeans.
in writing. ‒ we are well aware that the european union is facing serious difficulties lately with regard to the so-called 'migrant issue'. we need to remind everyone of the precise role that europe should play and is still struggling to play. our credibility is undermined if there are borderline situations or serious human rights violations within our borders. that is why i support the vergiat report. the situation that has arisen in calais, to set an example to all, cannot be accepted. we cannot talk about the protection and promotion of human rights when we cannot guarantee them within our own borders. to achieve this, to give a concrete response, we must ensure that the states ratify all the international conventions and treaties on human rights. we need to open up safe and legal migration routes. we must work to prevent human trafficking and stop the illegal routes that have been flouted so far. we must change our attitude towards the phenomenon of migration in and of itself, recognizing it as a motor for development and not as a hindrance to it. development not only for the host country but also for the country of origin.
in writing. ‒ the rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights are universal and indivisible and go hand in hand with the right of all people to mobility. therefore, every individual has the right to decide to leave the country in which he or she is and to exercise his or her migration choices in a dignified manner, without suffering treatment that undermines human rights, such as arbitrary detention, return to third countries where there is a real risk of ill-treatment and torture, forms of forced labour and/or degrading working conditions in the countries of origin and destination, ghettoisation of migrants in urban areas and lack of access to education. in voting in favour of this resolution, i wanted to recognise the need for the eu and its member states to protect the human rights of migrants, asylum seekers, stateless persons, displaced persons and refugees - especially within their own borders and particularly with regard to vulnerable groups (women, minors and lgbt people) - in order to be credible in the discussion on migration and human rights in third countries. in addition, the eu can make a positive contribution to addressing the root causes of the crises that cause mass migration flows and to amplifying the potential of legal migration as a development factor.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament reaffirmed its commitment to the protection of human rights and, in particular, the conditions of workers in third countries. the globalisation of trade and the opening of branches on all continents have made it increasingly clear that companies have become the main actors in ensuring respect for human rights by promoting and protecting them in their production. in this context, therefore, international rules and cooperation are essential to prevent human rights violations in third countries. for this reason, parliament urged the european institutions to take further steps in this direction and reminded corporate actors of their responsibility to respect human rights in their operations worldwide, regardless of the location of users and whether the host state respects its human rights obligations.
in writing. - i vote against the report, the usual pro-immigration rhetoric.
in writing. ‒ i find it very important that this report be adopted, which sets out the general position of the european parliament on a priority issue such as safeguarding the safety, dignity and respect for the rights of migrants, which are all too often violated, in the complexity of the phenomenon of migration flows. europe reaffirms its role and its core values, ensuring that asylum seekers and refugees fleeing conflict, degradation and poverty are welcomed in the union and have access to education and healthcare and opportunities for social integration, equitably and without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on human rights and migration in third countries because i share its spirit and joy, and i join the call to member states to do more in terms of solidarity and welcome. i agree with the analysis of the causes of migration, a long-term phenomenon which will continue until we are able to ensure a happy and dignified life in certain parts of the world. i am even more in favour of the call to ensure respect for human rights and the dignified treatment of migrants arriving on our shores, by fully applying international conventions and ensuring, above all, the safety of children. in fact, in some countries, including the eu, there is still a criminalization of the phenomenon of migration, which is accompanied by the use of unjustified force and inhuman behaviour towards asylum seekers and refugees, and which the eu can no longer tolerate. it is also important to mention the situation of women, who have greater difficulties in integrating into the host society: it is therefore important to provide for vocational, linguistic and social training policies to enable migrant women to find work immediately.
in writing. migration is a global phenomenon, not just a european one, triggered by a variety of factors including economic, social, political, labour, security and environmental conditions around the world. the eu as a whole, and not just the border states, has a responsibility to tackle the problem, especially from a human point of view, but also to protect the fundamental rights and ensure the security of our citizens. the report adopted by parliament today highlights the defence of the rights of migrants, including the right to leave their own country and access to justice and effective redress. it focuses on violence against women and children, calling for the implementation of migration policies that are sensitive to the rights of the most vulnerable groups; the committee stresses that economic, social and cultural rights should be guaranteed to all migrants equally, and stresses that the concept of 'safe country' should not be discriminatory for any migrant when applying for political asylum. it is therefore called upon to assume its responsibilities and to recognise its obligations under international law for a europe of solidarity and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the report on corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries. i agree that any activity in which the eu is involved should always be done in accordance with the core values and principles on which the eu is founded upon. the protection of human rights is one of the top priorities indeed.
in writing. ‒ considering the scale of the phenomenon, which today involves 65 million refugees and some 244 million migrants; considering the complexity of flows, and in particular their transnational nature, assessing the wide spectrum of causes, from climate change to war, and their common denominator, hunger and despair; we shall vote in favour of this report. the text, taking into account the multidimensional nature of migration, promotes a holistic approach that balances issues of human dignity with security principles. we also share the strong concern about respect for fundamental rights and the humanitarian conditions to which migrants are subjected in transit countries and, in this regard, we call for the ratification and respect of international conventions. in view of this, we acknowledge the great demonstration of solidarity shown by some of these developing countries. we also stress the great importance of including the gender dimension in migration policies. women, especially young women, are exposed to a higher rate of risk and violence. as the most vulnerable group to early pregnancy, forced marriage, sexual and physical abuse and prostitution, we stress the need for specialised protection and assistance, especially in health matters.
in writing. ‒ whereas the refugee crisis is one of the main challenges facing the european union and the problem of serious human rights violations suffered by many migrants in the various countries of transit or destination is of particular concern; i believe that the changes in migration flows, particularly in times of crisis, have a significant economic, social and political impact both in the countries of origin and in those of destination. while i acknowledge the importance of this subject and will follow developments with interest, i do not think that this objection reflects my views and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the concern expressed in the report regarding the dire situation faced by millions of people as a result of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and extreme poverty, which lead them to leave their countries and undertake long and dangerous journeys, during which they often suffer further abuse. i join the call for their human rights and dignity to be respected and for the european union to be the first to set a good example. the only real strategy that can produce positive effects in the long term is to promote genuine economic, social and democratic development in the countries of origin, thus addressing the root causes that drive millions to emigrate. at the same time, we are obliged to ensure, on the basis of international treaties and in the name of our own values, a life of dignity and independence for refugees and migrants arriving in europe. it is our duty to ensure access to health care, education, training and the labour market, starting with the most vulnerable groups such as women, children and the disabled, to whom special attention must be paid, by promoting inclusive and empowering pathways.
in writing. ‒ i too share the concerns expressed by the rapporteur about the fate of people forced to flee their country because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and poverty. i believe that it is necessary for the member states to respect the dignity and human rights of all migrants. but the text proposed by the rapporteur provides a diametrically opposite interpretation of the phenomenon of migration to that of my group and myself. the rapporteur believes that the eu should not conclude readmission agreements with third countries and should not make its development cooperation funding conditional on the beneficiary states' effective cooperation in border control and the fight against illegal immigration. i believe that the eu is one of the regions in the world that is doing the most in terms of welcoming and solidarity, and the proper respect for the rights of migrants must leave no room for confusion between asylum seekers and economic migrants and for the view that migration is always acceptable and always a positive phenomenon. for all these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the complexity of the migration issue is widely recognised, as are the limits of intervention due to incomplete legislation, despite the commitments made by the institutions. the flow of migrants to europe in recent years has put our reception system under great strain and has overburdened several countries. we need a strong response and a response which is first and foremost european. i think it is unacceptable that there are countries that call themselves outside. we must also act by agreeing cooperation and partnership agreements with third countries to deal with the causes of the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on human rights and migration in third countries. the report reminds business actors of their responsibility to respect human rights in all their global operations, regardless of where their users are located and regardless of whether the host state respects its human rights obligations. the report reaffirms support for the un guiding principles and their application worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted with conviction in favour of this resolution, and as my colleague said before, i am absolutely in favour of the work that the united nations is doing on a binding treaty that lays down the obligation for multinational companies to act responsibly and to ensure their contribution to sustainable development. this is a key point in the opposition to the big new generation trade agreements such as ttip and ceta, and we hope that the resistance of wallonia and the opposition of millions of citizens to ceta will be respected. i was rapporteur in this parliament on a report which focused on the issue of a symmetry between the binding nature of the protection of investment and investor rights in trade treaties and the non-binding nature of the protection of human rights, the protection of labour rights, environmental standards. as that report says, this parliament must increasingly urge the commission to make it compulsory to respect human rights, labour and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses aspects related to human rights, labour and environmental protection. rules have been introduced which reiterate the duty of businesses to respect human rights and the consequent sanctionality of their violation, even when it occurs outside the eu. member states are called upon to establish clear requirements as to the need for companies domiciled in their territory and/or jurisdiction to respect human rights in all their operations and in every country and context in which they operate. another important point in the report concerns the proposal to create an abuse-free label at union level, which could be applied on a voluntary basis, monitored by an independent body governed by strict rules and with inspection powers, competent to verify and certify that no infringements have been committed at any stage of the production chain of the product in question. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the corrao report, which i supported with my vote today, deals with the issue of corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. international companies are undoubtedly one of the main drivers of globalisation today, promoting trade and the development of financial services on a global scale. they play a crucial role in the economic system through their activities, which must always take account of respect for international standards and human rights. unfortunately, there have been serious incidents over time in which companies have been responsible for human rights violations and have affected the rights of vulnerable groups. the text adopted today refers to the un guiding principles on economic activities and human rights and stresses the need for european companies operating in third countries to respect international standards. europe must take up this issue by promoting awareness-raising activities in its enterprises; trade and investment policy in third countries must be based on ethical values by promoting corporate social responsibility.
in writing. ‒ despite some points of agreement, the report in question could open up criticisms in the future, which is why i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries because i believe both states and companies play an important role in ensuring the protection of human rights. therefore, this resolution commits the parliament to pushing the eu, the member states and third countries to adopt binding instruments devoted to the effective protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ continued eu action in the promotion and protection of human rights is urgently needed today, so that it is effective and coherent at all levels, whether national, european or international, to effectively address human rights violations by international societies as they occur and to address the legal problems arising from the extraterritorial dimensions of societies and their behaviour, as well as the related uncertainty regarding the attribution of responsibility for human rights violations. globalisation, the internationalisation of trade and production, together with the creation of new types of jobs, cannot be an excuse for keeping silent about the living conditions of the inhabitants of third countries. if europe is to continue to be the world leader in defending individual rights, it must also continue to raise awareness among its businesses and protect rights through partnership agreements and its global political influence.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries. the question of labour exploitation is one which involves the responsibilities of governments but also of companies, which are often guilty of very serious violations of workers' rights. in many non-european countries there are still very serious situations of exploitation of labour, including child labour, with restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly. in many cases, workers are even subjected to physical violence and threats. the business community in third countries is obliged to respect human rights in all their forms, and the union must be able to establish a trade and investment policy with third countries based on ethical values and not just on the market.
in writing. ‒ with this report, my colleague ignazio corrao wanted to ensure that europe and the member states act urgently, continuously and effectively at all levels in order to address the legal problems arising from the extraterritorial dimensions of companies and their behaviour, as well as the related uncertainty regarding the attribution of responsibility for human rights violations. in particular, the report calls on member states to set clear requirements on the need for companies domiciled in their territory and/or jurisdiction to respect human rights in all their operations and in every country and context in which they operate. the report also calls for the introduction of rules which reiterate the duty of businesses to respect human rights and the actual sanctionability of their violation. with this report, the five star movement is laying the foundations for the removal of the causes of uncontrolled migration. my vote was undoubtedly in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report, which, while pursuing valid objectives on the protection of the rights of workers in third countries, appears to be too centralised at the level of the european commission in the overall action to be taken.
in writing. ‒ as a european and an italian, i express my agreement to the resolution because not only is respect for human dignity one of the founding principles of the eu, but also because i strongly share the view expressed in article 41 of our constitution, namely that economic activity 'shall no longer be carried out in a manner contrary to the public interest or in such a way as to prejudice security, freedom and human dignity'. secondly, our companies do not simply produce or export goods, but they also express the same european ideals: the products are accompanied by an inherent community cultural heritage. as a result, european economic actors have a moral duty to respect human rights in their operations in third countries in order to make them free from exploitation of labour or resources. it should not be forgotten that an economic activity can only be successful if it respects and includes those who participate in it, so ethical commitment is part of the value chain by envisaging the use of new paths and competitive levers consistent with sustainable development for the community. it is therefore necessary to adopt as soon as possible guidelines on transparency and measures to prevent human rights violations in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that companies today play a central and increasing role in ensuring respect for human rights, as trade agreements themselves can help to strengthen human rights provisions as well. it is important that european and non-european companies carry out human rights due diligence and then integrate the results into internal policies and procedures, including allocating adequate resources to ensure their implementation. transparency and communication about measures taken to prevent human rights violations in third countries are essential to ensure adequate control and to enable consumers to make increasingly informed choices.
in writing. ‒ the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains has made the role of companies in ensuring respect for human rights more important. companies are required to accept, uphold and implement within their sphere of influence a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, by committing to these principles and integrating them into their business activities on a voluntary basis. i have welcomed this resolution because i believe that voluntary and non-binding commitments by companies are not sufficient in themselves and need to be accompanied by binding and enforceable rules to prevent human rights violations in third countries. from this point of view, i believe that the intelligent mix of regulatory instruments and voluntary action will make it possible to structure continuous, effective and coherent action at all levels, national, european and international, to effectively address human rights violations by international societies and to overcome the legal problems arising from the extraterritorial dimensions of societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to put an end to cases of human rights violations by companies and enterprises and to raise awareness among citizens about 'corporate responsibility' not only in the economic sector but also in the political and legal spheres. i welcome european trade policies in developing countries which help to strengthen the trading system while promoting human rights and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation of the market and the internationalisation of economic activities raise a number of concerns regarding the liability of companies in cases of serious human rights violations in third countries. we want europe to be a driving force and an example in safeguarding human rights and to be vigilant and ready to intervene, including by means of sanctions, where abuses or infringements are found. i therefore wholeheartedly support mr corrao's report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries because the ep wanted to remind business owners of their responsibilities to respect human rights in their actions globally, regardless of where their business activities are located. the united nations global compact provides that enterprises are required to accept, uphold and implement, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, and are required to implement these principles by integrating them into their business activities. that is why i strongly supported the call on the commission to come forward shortly with a legislative proposal on export controls for dual-use goods, as corporate-created technologies continue to be the cause of human rights violations worldwide. as well as the call to the eu and the member states to establish clear rules for companies established in their territory or jurisdiction to respect human rights in all their operations and in every country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the protection of human rights, which has always been a priority in the eu's history, cannot in any way be subordinated to other objectives. we therefore ask that it be respected by third countries, and we want to prevent european companies from being the ones to advocate human rights violations. the concept of corporate social responsibility has made a great deal of progress worldwide, but it still needs to be better defined at national and european level, with particular reference to smes, which are so essential to the economic fabric of our countries. i therefore voted in favour of the text we are discussing, partly because it calls for due account to be taken of globalisation and the need for the internationalisation of businesses, which are in themselves positive phenomena if properly framed in the perspective of increased world trade and respect for human rights. the latter cannot in any way suffer from the transactional dimension of a well-known case law and it is therefore correct and necessary that we call on the commission today to establish minimum standards for the definition of offences and the related sanctions in this area.
in writing. the european union was founded on respect for human rights, human dignity, freedom and democracy, and as such we must ensure that these values are respected in all areas of citizens' lives. in this particular case it is essential to remember that companies have an obligation to respect a set of fundamental values in the field of human rights, labour standards, respect for the environment, the fight against corruption and social responsibility. but sometimes we see some violations of these duties. the european parliament's proposal therefore underlines the increasingly important role of companies in ensuring respect for human rights and the implementation of international standards, and recognises the importance of the concept of social responsibility for business, welcoming the steady growth of implementations based on voluntary commitment by businesses. it also reiterated the member states' implementation of the un guiding principles on economic activities and human rights and called for greater attention to be paid to companies using raw materials from conflict zones. in the light of the above, i am voting in favour of the report on the responsibility of companies for serious human rights violations in third countries.
in writing. ‒ combining economic needs with those of providing jobs for enterprises and promoting employment are priorities in our policy choices. at the same time, it is a moral duty to promote and protect human rights in the workplace. i therefore welcomed the proposal to give businesses greater responsibility for the protection of human rights in third countries, in particular the rights of vulnerable groups such as minorities, women and children. the protection of human dignity must be indispensable throughout the production and distribution chain, both in europe and in the countries where european companies extend their activities, and the european institutions, within the framework of their competences, must act to ensure that it is respected. the proposal for an abuse-free label for producers who guarantee these rights can be an incentive for the consumer who, by choosing, wants to be confirmed that there is this kind of commitment. the social responsibility of business must, however, be accompanied by clear choices by the political institutions, which must act by coordinating the needs of the productive sectors with the different realities of the member states, so that human rights are safeguarded in any case.
in writing. ‒ in view of the values on which the european union is founded and its action on the international scene based on these principles, i felt it was my duty to express my support for the proposal under consideration. in the international economic landscape, enterprises are among the main actors in economic globalisation and trade and are therefore required to respect all applicable and existing international laws and treaties and human rights. however, in some situations, businesses can sometimes be responsible for or contribute to human rights violations and affect the rights of vulnerable groups. since development issues and the promotion of human rights are of fundamental importance in all the union's policies, i believe that action is necessary. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the protection of human rights must be a priority for the european union and its member states. and its international role, including trade policy, must be inspired by the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. in this context, the adoption of the un guiding principles on economic activities and human rights is therefore to be welcomed as a very positive step forward and i welcome the call to european and non-european businesses to adapt to these principles and ensure their implementation. businesses are among the main actors in economic, financial and trade globalisation and can therefore play an important role in promoting human rights, democracy and environmental standards. trade and human rights can and must be mutually reinforcing. i hope that europe and its businesses will really set a good example and show others the best way forward, by ensuring transparency and accountability, in the interests of workers, consumers and the businesses themselves. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in order to preserve the european union's leading role in respecting human rights, including those of persons belonging to minorities, i believe it is necessary to stress the importance of corporate social responsibility. the report emphasizes that respect for human rights is a moral and legal duty for businesses and their managers and that it should be integrated into a long-term economic perspective wherever european businesses operate and regardless of their size or industry. in this context, i welcome the proposal to include human rights responsibilities in contractual obligations between companies and their suppliers. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr corrao, which deals with human rights, labour and environmental protection. the main objectives of the report are to ensure that europe and the member states act urgently, continuously and effectively at all levels in addressing the legal problems arising from the extraterritorial dimensions of companies and their behaviour, as well as the related uncertainty regarding the attribution of responsibility for human rights violations. the report calls on member states to set clear requirements on the need for companies domiciled in their territory and/or jurisdiction to respect human rights in all their activities and in every country and context in which they operate, and to ensure that victims have access to effective redress. another important point in the report concerns the proposal to create a 'abuse free' label at union level, which could be joined on a voluntary basis and monitored by an independent body. with this report, the five star movement lays the foundation for removing the causes that cause uncontrolled migration flows.
in writing. ‒ business has benefited greatly from the globalisation of the economy, creating jobs and profits and gaining power and influence in many developing countries. these positive aspects are unfortunately accompanied by clear violations of human rights which have exacerbated the conditions of poverty and oppression to which many people are subjected. it is also the european union's responsibility to promote policies which enable effective instruments to be created to hold companies to account for their actions or to ensure the protection and safety of workers. we must work on legislation that ensures that they are held accountable for the impact of their activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries. considering that the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality, and considering that the un guiding principles on economic activities and human rights apply to all states and all national and transnational companies, i believe it is the task of the european institutions to regulate the liability of economic actors who do not respect human rights. the resolution calls on the commission to carry out a thorough examination, in consultation with all stakeholders, including civil society and business, of the legal obstacles to cases brought before member state courts for alleged human rights violations committed abroad by eu-based businesses, and calls on the council and the commission to act in accordance with article 83 tfeu in order to establish minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the area of particularly serious crime with a transnational dimension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we voted on a report on the european strategy for liquefied natural gas and storage. but, in practical terms, what did we talk about? the fact that we will be importing liquefied natural gas from the united states of america, on the pretext that by doing so we will be sure not to be left out in the cold. unfortunately, the hard data tells us that: 1) gas demand in europe is declining and infrastructure is underutilized, 2) the mediterranean basin can and must become a global leader in the development of carbon free energy resources, 3) we cannot ignore the environmental hazards to human health caused by regasifiers and storage activities, 4) there are specific cop21 targets that require the abandonment of fossil fuels. nevertheless, the commission uses the efsi, the european fund for strategic investments, for large projects, to the advantage of the gas multinationals. we believe, on the contrary, that it is urgent and a priority to concentrate all political and economic efforts in support of renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainability. that is why we voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report is pro-fossil energy and completely ignores the issues of strategic dependence and infrastructure lock-in, made even more perverse by the considerable under-utilisation of existing european facilities (on average 25%). it is also based on eu gas consumption projections provided mainly by entsog, which are clearly exaggerated and have been criticised by the court of auditors. gas is presented as a relatively clean fuel, thus ignoring the problems of leakage and its contribution to the greenhouse effect, and the major problems posed by unconventional extraction methods. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gyürk report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage. this is an important text which touches on the crucial subject of energy supply and the development of the european energy strategy. already today, several eu member states are completely dependent on gas imports, a condition generated both by the limited number of suppliers and the lack of alternative supply routes. in the near future, this dependence is expected to increase, and european action should therefore be directed both at actively pursuing the development of its domestic conventional gas resources, such as those discovered in cyprus, and at facilitating the rapid transition to a secure and sustainable energy system. only through the creation of a real energy union, with a single energy market and a common energy policy, will it be possible to guarantee real energy security for the continent.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage and i believe that it moves even further towards the objective of promoting a european energy union, another attempt to control the institutions from above on our territories. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the paris agreement has created the conditions for the global energy transition, making the shift towards a low-carbon economy irreversible. in this transition period, the adoption of a common energy strategy would help to support a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, while limiting dependence on external gas suppliers. with a view to exploiting the union's internal resources for greater energy self-sufficiency, the report presented by the european parliament today stresses that liquefied natural gas represents an opportunity for europe in terms of increased competitiveness in the short term. harnessing the potential of lng and its storage would make the european system more diversified and flexible and contribute to a reliable gas supply, including to the most energy-vulnerable regions. to achieve this, greater cooperation and solidarity between member states and a more efficient and safer use of existing infrastructure and terminals are needed.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage with the aim of developing a resilient energy union. indeed, the energy union has the objective to make the eu more independent from the dependence on external gas suppliers. as a matter of fact, this resolution supports the integration of lng and gas storage within the framework of the internal energy market and i strongly believe better coordination of national energy policies is needed in order to achieve it.
in writing. ‒ gas can play a significant role in the union's energy system, in industrial production and as a source of heating in buildings and in support of renewable energy over the coming decades, pending the eu's achievement of its greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy targets and the transition to a low-carbon economy, in which the role of gas will gradually decline in favour of clean energy. however, several member states are now dependent on gas from abroad for more than 90% of their average annual needs: this poses serious limitations in terms of geopolitical security, strategic security, economic security and environmental security. any action to reduce external dependence and to improve the efficiency of supply methods and means is therefore welcome. closing the infrastructure gaps for gas storage and transport of liquefied natural gas is a key step towards strengthening the union and increasing solidarity and energy efficiency. the member states must support this process by promoting the commission's action, the completion of cross-border gas networks and the implementation of the latest package of agreements for the completion of the single energy market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which sets out parliament's position on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage presented by the commission last february. the report highlights the benefits of using lng for a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to end dependence on external gas suppliers. however, it notes some critical aspects, including the infrastructure aspect, highlighting the need to carefully analyse the alternatives and options for lng supply from a regional and environmental sustainability perspective before deciding to build new infrastructure, in order to improve energy security and ensure the most efficient use of existing infrastructure. furthermore, it notes that the existing lng infrastructure in the eu is significantly under-utilized and that the demand for gas in the eu continues to be overestimated. it therefore calls for planning of gas infrastructure based on a reduction in demand.
in writing. ‒ the report is pro-fossil energy and completely ignores the issues of strategic dependency. it is also based on projections of eu gas consumption, mainly supplied by entso gas, which have been strongly criticised by the court of auditors as being grossly exaggerated. gas is presented as a relatively clean fuel, ignoring the problems of leakage and the consequent very strong greenhouse effect; in addition, the aspects related to non-conventional extraction methods are not taken into account. i could only vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report contains parliament's contribution to the definition of a european strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and its storage. the increase in lng production expected in the coming years and the consequent fall in the price may indeed represent an opportunity for the union in the field of energy security which we must seize. this could benefit those member states which have only one source of energy supply. i thought i voted for the report because, if we are to make europe an attractive market for suppliers, we must make sure that the union is equipped with the right infrastructure. if we can achieve this, we can also gain an environmental advantage, as lng can go alongside renewable sources to effectively replace more polluting conventional fuels for both road and maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this report on the energy package proposed by the european commission. in the dossier under consideration the usual european agencies will have exclusive power on gas, and the text is characterized by a strong russophobic approach.
in writing. ‒ given the rationale for having a forward-looking energy and climate policy, i am voting in favour of the report. the eu committed itself at the paris climate conference to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, and in line with these targets, a strategy on liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage represents a real opportunity for europe. indeed, it was estimated that the dependence on natural gas imports will increase and in this respect lng would allow for increased competitiveness as it would drive down natural gas prices and enhance security of supply. however, it must be recognised that the european internal energy market is currently far from integrated due to insufficient interconnections. therefore, existing infrastructure for lng conversion and gas storage at regional level must be renewed or implemented, and alternatives to lng must be provided where new facilities are to be built.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i share the eu's strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage and because an internal energy market that addresses and integrates these issues more effectively will help achieve the goal of an energy resilient, secure, competitive and integrated eu, also through more effective use of existing regional structures.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is one element of the energy union, which aims to give concrete expression to the eu's ambition to achieve a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system and to end dependence on external gas suppliers. i believe that liquefied natural gas, gas interconnections and gas storage are important elements and can help to eliminate any kind of energy isolation of member states and regions. in this context, it is all the more important to support the most vulnerable countries in their efforts to diversify their sources and supply routes through the establishment of new lng terminals, distribution and interconnection systems that can ensure the safety of maritime supply routes and strengthen member states' energy security by reducing demand through efficiency measures.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this resolution because i believe that the text, as presented, could weaken the future role of liquefied natural gas and gas deposits. the report contains several references to binding climate and energy parameters, set as minimum targets for 2030, which do not fall within the scope and objectives set out in the report itself and therefore undermine its intent and scope.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because improvements were needed on certain topics dealt with.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage because i believe this is a key issue for the eu's energy future, given the increasing international rigidities and difficulties and the need to honour the paris agreement and put in place coherent policies to combat global warming. liquefied natural gas can replace fossil fuels and it is therefore important that the eu, as called for by the commission, develops its own strategy to diversify suppliers and sources of supply, which is a serious problem in some countries. i think, however, that this choice cannot be in conflict with the need to avoid settlements in areas of the highest environmental and landscape value already classified as sites of community interest, nor must it be detrimental to investment in renewable energy. finally, i share the s&d group's position on the infrastructure issue. there is no doubt that liquefied natural gas requires adequate infrastructure and technology, but member states have various facilities which must be fully exploited, including jointly and across borders, before new infrastructure can be built which can be harmful to the environment and displease citizens.
in writing. the report on the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is part of the package outlining the future of eu energy policy, presented in february by the european commission. the report argues that the promotion of an internal energy market integrating liquefied natural gas and gas storage will help achieve the objectives of a resilient energy union. it also stresses the need to take market-based and use-based measures on existing regional lng infrastructure and explains that in order to ensure more efficient use of infrastructure, alternative lng supply options should be carefully analysed. the issue of energy and diversification of sources of supply is a central issue at this time, as we shape policies for the next decades, when we will be committed to implementing regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to combat climate change. our energy policy needs to focus on an integrated, secure, competitive and sustainable system. and this strategy has to be part of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. gas plays a strategic role in the eu energy system that aims to reach energy security.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the parliament's report on the european commission's energy security package, which contains the necessary proposals to prepare europe for the global energy transition and presents new tools to deal with possible disruptions to energy supply. the question of energy security is the basis on which an energy strategy for the union can be built and is one of the priorities of this parliament and the juncker commission. the set of rules presented by the commission contains a wide range of measures to strengthen the eu's resilience in the event of a gas supply disruption. the most important measures include a reduction in energy demand, an increase in european energy production, further investment in a fully integrated and functioning energy market, and diversification of sources, routes and suppliers. the package of measures is important because it follows the adoption of the paris convention of 12 december 2015, a global agreement to combat climate change. by approving this measure, parliament reaffirms its commitment to respect for the environment and the protection of the terrestrial ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because i believe that gas can play a significant role in the union's energy system in the coming decades, in industrial production and as a source of heating in buildings and in support of renewable energy. whereas the eu is not yet able to reap the benefits of an integrated internal energy market due to the lack of sufficient interconnections and coherence and the incomplete implementation of the third energy package; i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal, since liquefied gas represents a great opportunity for the eu in terms of increased competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the commission communication entitled 'an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage'; it considers that an internal energy market fully integrating liquefied natural gas and gas storage will play a significant role in achieving the ultimate goal of a resilient energy union. i believe that the issue of energy security should be at the heart of national energy policies and the eu's common strategy and that cooperation between member states in this area should be implemented in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust. i think it is necessary for parliament to approve the following report, as i am convinced that an internal energy market which fully integrates liquefied natural gas and gas storage will certainly have a positive impact on the eu's economy and industrial policies. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is pro-fossil energy and completely ignores the issues of strategic dependence and infrastructure lock-in, made even more perverse by the significant under-utilisation of existing european facilities, which are on average 25% used. it is also based on clearly exaggerated projections of eu gas consumption, mainly supplied by entso gas, which have been criticised by the european court of auditors. it is hopeful that the us shale gas market will re-emerge and flood the european market. it presents gas as a relatively clean fuel, ignoring the problems of leakage with the corresponding (very enhanced) greenhouse effect, and the major problems of unconventional extraction methods. in short, the report is simply unattainable, which is why we are voting against it.
in writing. ‒ discussing energy and promoting european development and coordination policies are central actions for security of supply and the fight against climate change. when we invest in energy, we are investing in our future. liquefied natural gas, given its peculiar characteristics, has been the subject of increasing interest from a commercial and geopolitical point of view. i therefore believe it is essential that the eu develops a strategy in this area. i also believe that a long-term sustainable energy mix, in addition to renewables, will also include natural gas, which, due to its characteristics and its wide availability, is crucial for the full achievement of the post-cop21 climate objectives.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report on the european strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. with this strategy we intend to ensure access to the liquefied gas markets for all member states, thus considerably broadening the range of gas suppliers. the aim is therefore to improve europe's energy security, firstly by further diversifying our sources of supply and secondly by ensuring adequate flexibility in the system through the use of storage mechanisms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of information on the activities of the european parliament and the commission. i would like to conclude by reiterating my concern, which is also reflected in the report that has been approved, about the doubling of the nord stream gas pipeline. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. in this report, parliament calls on the european commission to reduce the eu's dependence on gas supplies in the long term. the report is, however, in favour of the use of fossil fuels and completely fails to consider all the issues of strategic geopolitical dependence and infrastructure lock-in. the report itself was drawn up on the basis of projections of eu gas consumption, mainly supplied by entso gas, which were strongly criticised by the court of auditors for exaggerating the figures. gas is presented as a relatively clean fuel without taking into account the problem of leakage, which significantly increases the greenhouse effect, and unconventional extraction methods such as fracking, which certainly cannot be called sustainable. i would have voted against such an approach.
in writing. ‒ a few months after the revision of the fisheries control regulation, the aim of the own-initiative report is to formulate the european parliament's position on the subject. there are profound differences in controls between member states, but also between different fishing areas, which contribute to creating a sense of injustice among operators in the sector. the rapporteur proposes a number of measures, including more training for fishermen on control and sanctions, the need to make controls against illegal fishing more uniform and effective, including through the use of new technologies, the importance of collecting quality data and a general simplification of the rules. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries sector is one of the first to be concerned with the sustainable management of seas and oceans, and its full and active participation in the definition of control rules is therefore crucial. all too often there are cases of fishermen believing that there is discrimination in the regularity, frequency, duration, rigor, accuracy, effectiveness and methods of fisheries controls in europe, and in particular in the various member states. the thomas report, which i supported with my vote today, addresses this issue by calling on the commission to ensure uniform and correct transposition of existing legislation. closer cooperation between member states is needed to achieve effective harmonisation of controls, the mandate of the european fisheries control agency must be strengthened and better training and information for fishermen must be ensured. it is only by acting on the different levels that the system can be made more functional and fair.
in writing. ‒ the thomas report on how to make fisheries controls in europe more uniform is well structured and shareable. i think it is important to try to make the bureaucracy clearer and less burdensome for fishermen, who have been experiencing a period of severe economic crisis in recent years. i therefore wanted to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform because i think the current available data do not allow the eu institutions to review the control regulation. indeed, some member states have still to properly implement it and we still face different approaches in control activities. moreover, the lack of transparency between member states does not help to improve the control mechanisms. in this regard, i believe that control requirements should be complied with in an equivalent manner in the member states in order to make these controls uniform as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ fisheries controls are crucial to achieving the objectives of the cfp reform. however, there are huge differences in the scope of control and procedures between member states. the mandate of the european fisheries control agency to implement joint projects is limited, its budget is insufficient. the instruments and financial resources used to carry out the checks vary from one member state to another; the regulations are transposed differently in national legislation; penalties and judicial proceedings are very different; data are not always shared and accessible; the training for fishermen and inspectors varies and needs to be strengthened. these are the highlights of this important initiative report which was approved by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to ensure that the requirements for controls of fishing activities are met, which must be equivalent in the various member states. fishermen often complain that fisheries control is much stricter in their own country than in their neighbours, whether in another member state or in another fishing zone. this sense of injustice raises a real problem: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied uniformly and are therefore effective. the suspicion that the rules are not applied everywhere with the same rigor is accompanied by the risk that a situation will arise where the rules are no longer respected because they are not the same for everyone. the report adopted today identifies the shortcomings in the application of the rules that lead to this sense of injustice, and proposes in particular to simplify and then rapidly revise european regulation no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the common fisheries policy, focusing first on better implementation of the rules in the various member states, in particular by seeking greater harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ in order to address the deep differences between member states in the field of fisheries controls, this report proposes a number of measures, such as more training for fishermen on control and sanctions, the need to make fisheries controls and sanctions more uniform, the importance of quality data collection and the use of new technologies to increase the effectiveness of controls. many of the amendments tabled by the five star movement have been accepted in the text, the most important of which are the need to simplify the technical measures which often make it difficult not only to understand them but also to control and apply them; rules on simpler, more comprehensive and more consistent controls; the importance of strengthening and enhancing controls in order to combat illegal fishing and to improve the quality of the data collected. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the control of fishing activities must aim at the creation of a uniform and effective system. it is therefore imperative that the application of the common rules and their monitoring be uniform throughout the union in order to ensure uniformity in the levels of controls and penalties. i am pleased that the report has highlighted the importance of simplification and transparency in the monitoring of fisheries activities. only simplified and clear legislation on control procedures can ensure an effective fight against illegal fishing, which is so damaging to our precious marine ecosystem. i hope that the revision of the control regulation will be the result of constructive cooperation between the european commission and the european fisheries control agency (efca), whose role i believe needs to be strengthened. finally, it is important to promote a modern monitoring system where the use of new technologies for the transmission of information and communication in real time can improve maritime surveillance. on the basis of these observations, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ the report, which aims to lighten and harmonise the bureaucratic aspects of fisheries operators, was approved. the text also contains important measures to harmonise controls on illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ the sharing of the measure is based on the hope of a breakthrough in the fisheries sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not penalized by the lack of regulation in neighbouring countries. our made in italy products represent not only a very large market, but also a genuine excellence, thanks to the legislation, sometimes too strict, which we have to abide by. however, in order to avoid any penalty or distortion of competition, it is essential to harmonise controls in order to ensure sustainable development in line with a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment. the achievement of regular, frequent, rigorous and accurate control methods is a priority, especially in the light of the identified risks associated with the often denied inspection access to foreign ships. the latter has often made it difficult to control illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and has hampered inspections of previously detected infringements (infringement rates have been estimated to be significantly higher at sea than on land). the harmonization of controls is therefore aimed at ensuring greater safety for european producers and products, while at the same time ensuring the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and maintaining a level playing field between european fleets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because it highlights the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources. the importance of strengthening the mandate of efca in order to create fisheries control operations that allow coordinated and effective action by local, regional, national authorities and community agencies performing coast guard functions at european level is also emphasised, while also seeking to achieve real-time sharing of the data collected between the various competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries sector is affected by the lack of homogeneity in the application of control legislation in the individual member states, which, fuelled by a sense of injustice, undermines compliance with the rule itself. i believe that it is essential for the conservation of common resources to ensure that eu fisheries rules are properly respected, that national catch quotas are not exceeded and that member states adopt a common approach to fisheries control. i therefore believe that, in view of the revision of the control regulation, it is necessary to establish effective rules to prevent, detect and sanction infringements of the control regulation, with a focus on greater harmonisation and increased cooperation establishing standardised control procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it aims to harmonise controls on fisheries in europe while respecting national competences. the report has the dual objective of identifying the limits to the coherence and effectiveness of the fisheries control system in the eu and proposing solutions to improve its consistency.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which aims to harmonise and reduce red tape for operators.
in writing. ‒ the plan to harmonise the control systems of the common european fisheries policy introduced general measures of regulatory uniformity, which are very important for this sector, but left a large number of provisions optional or subject to reinterpretation from country to country, giving rise to numerous and significant differences in training, control procedures and even sanctions between the different member countries. in particular, it generated a general distrust of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 because of the diversity of application and interpretation it provided. i therefore fully support a revision of the current legislation, based on clearer, more accessible and more equitable principles, providing for greater certainty in the provisions, concrete harmonisation in terms of common tools and technologies to be used and, above all, uniformity in terms of training and principles of sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on how to make fisheries controls in europe more uniform because i think it is right to listen to the voices and concerns of fishermen about the differences in controls and i believe that the next revision of the control regulation is the right place to achieve greater uniformity in this area in the eu. in the face of a regulation governing the matter at european level, there are still too many differences between the member states in the methods and implementation of controls, in the degree of depth of controls in relation to the fisheries chain and in the type of penalties provided for in the various regulations. i therefore share the call to use the forthcoming revision of the control regulation to simplify legislation and reduce red tape, to strengthen the fight against illegal fishing, to improve and standardise the training of fishermen and inspectors, including by involving the gacs and local and regional authorities, to extend controls to the whole chain and to promote conscious consumption in restaurants. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it responds to the need to give concrete answers to fishermen, who are one of the groups most affected by the constraints imposed by european policies. but fishermen complain most of all that these restrictions are not applied in the same way in all countries. there are considerable differences in the systems of control or sanctions, for example, and this increases the sense of frustration and injustice. if the rules are european, then they must be the same for everyone and have the same effect on all fishermen. europe must therefore make an extra effort to standardize not only the obligations but also their application.
in writing. fishing is an important source of income for many european countries. but sometimes the same european legislation seems to be applied differently in different member states. for example, in the area of controls, some states provide for controls along the whole chain, while in other states controls are only carried out at certain stages of the production chain. these differences can cast doubt on both the eu's credibility and the effectiveness of the legislation itself. today's vote calls for the harmonization of european fisheries rules, such as the mesh size of nets, control procedures, catches and the penalties for infringements. in view of the forthcoming revision of the control regulation, we have asked for more attention to be paid to this issue in order to eliminate the differences between eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform. equal treatment is something fishermen have been complaining about in terms of application of regulations, and the eu should work on this issue to work on the feeling of injustice, giving also as always a relevant importance to transparency.
in writing. ‒ whereas the effectiveness of community legislation is directly proportional to the homogeneity of its implementation by the member states; assess the concerns and complaints expressed by fishermen in this regard and, in particular, with regard to distortions of competition caused by different applications of the same standard; the seriousness of a potential internal fracture in the common market; we share the hope that the european commission, which is about to propose a reform of the fisheries control regulation, will identify any shortcomings in the application of the existing legislation and promote effective harmonisation in the common fisheries policy, one of the areas which has benefited most from european integration. we also share the view that the objective of integration cannot be achieved without joint training of the representatives of the agencies responsible for controls, greater transparency and accessibility of data, for example by putting information sites and databases online, and more effective consultation with trade associations. we also support the strengthening of the european fisheries agency, which is currently too underfunded. we stress that greater coordination can only be achieved by giving the joint agency a new role.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration, as i fully agree with the view that it is necessary to make fisheries controls in europe more uniform. whereas, beyond possible regional variations, there are substantial differences between member states in the application of european rules and whereas the scope of council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system is the european union; action is therefore essential to ensure that controls are applied uniformly throughout the union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report was drawn up in preparation for the next so-called 'control regulation' (regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy) which is expected to be presented by the commission in the second half of 2017. the text of the proposal stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain equal working conditions among european fleets. the member states of the european union are also called upon to ensure the effective implementation of the control regulation currently in force. fishing is an activity of great importance, particularly for the mediterranean islands. fishermen are bearers of knowledge and traditions which deserve great attention from the european legislator. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the need to ensure the uniform application of fisheries rules at european level. unfortunately, the procedures for inspections and controls, the level of infringement and the penalties vary from one member state to another. this discrepancy is bound to jeopardise not only the effectiveness of european legislation but also the level playing field between eu fleets. i would like to stress that the differentiation of controls does not only concern fisheries, but the whole fisheries chain. i hope that the next revision of the regulations will also aim to provide consumers with appropriate information on the fish products served in restaurants. at present, only some member states organise checks from vessel to board, while others only check certain links in the chain, excluding, for example, the transport or catering part. it is also important to understand whether the rules are not being complied with because they are not being complied with or because the current complexity and the high number of sometimes contradictory provisions undermine their actual applicability.
in writing. ‒ fisheries controls are crucial to achieving the objectives of the cfp reform. however, there are huge differences in the scope of controls, and the procedures and strategies of all member states and regions are often different. the mandate of the european fisheries control agency for the implementation of joint projects is limited and its budget is insufficient. the instruments and financial resources used to carry out controls vary from one member state to another, regulations are transposed differently in national legislation, penalties and judicial procedures differ substantially, data are not always shared or accessible, and training for fishermen and inspectors is different and needs to be strengthened. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. finally, it is also a shared and highly important call for improving the european training programme for inspectors and providing adequate training for fishermen.
mr president, i supported this report because the european union's role is to link up the various regions and countries of the eu. as far as transport infrastructure is concerned, that is logical, but i took the liberty of explaining that i was delayed at point 56, which refers to the complete navigability of the elbe. its navigability is important for connecting the countries of central europe. as a czech mp, i have to say that the subject is not as simple as it seems. it's a more complicated issue, in the public debate that's going on around the labe flood, there are environmentalists on one side, and there are those who want to flood the river on the other side. i think that the european parliament cannot make a clear decision on this matter without being informed. that is why i abstained and i hope that in the czech republic this debate will continue on the basis not only of political but also of professional arguments so that sufficient protection is provided to czech nature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the european parliament has missed an important opportunity today. i voted against the final report, after they were voted by a party which surprises me very much, mr president, i would like to tell a little story: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the baltic sea, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the baltic sea. but who did he vote against? i cannot be angry with the other countries which have legitimately pursued their interests, mr president. to prevent a lot of money from coming to italy, to the north east of italy which is perfectly connected to the eastern centre of european mobility. they celebrated. who did all this? i would like to thank mr gardini. it is a coincidence that the leader of the forza italia group and head of the forza italia delegation in europe, linked to the people's party, voted against and worked to vote against the legitimate interests of italy. i think this is a very serious act. i'm sorry, mr. president, because i know my time is up, but this is not such a serious act with respect to my country and my land.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of the transport infrastructure allocated to the central and eastern regions of the union. priority is given to the road transport sector and its safety. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the transport sector. the necessary financial instruments are also identified, including the cef, the european structural and investment funds, the instrument for pre-accession assistance and eib and ebrd funds. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i supported the poręba report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. this is a crucial issue for the future of the union, which today sees the advanced networks of the central part of the continent coexist with the less developed ones of the eastern regions. the infrastructure deficit is presented as a deficit of opportunities for territories that actually have the potential to attract investment and contribute to the economic growth of the eu as a whole. the text, while reaffirming the objectives of the transeuropean transport network, therefore stresses the need for the union to create new infrastructure and to invest in the modernisation and completion of existing infrastructure. accessibility and connectivity are crucial for economic growth, competitiveness, employment and territorial cohesion, which requires coordinated project planning by member states and better use of existing policies and instruments for regional cooperation. the use of eu macro-regional strategies can provide an innovative governance framework to address the new challenges facing transport policy and to ensure that existing harmful disparities are finally overcome.
in writing. ‒ the text on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe is largely agreeable. i think it is essential to ensure that italian companies have efficient links with eastern europe, given the importance of trade between our industry and those regions. improving communications between northern italy, especially the north-east, would help the activities of our companies, for which the central and eastern european territories represent natural export markets. i therefore intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on improving the connection and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe bearing in mind that the transport infrastructures in most of these regions are still underdeveloped compared with those of other eu countries. furthermore, i believe the macro-regional eu strategies offer an innovative governance framework for tackling these challenges by ensuring better transport conditions. as a matter of fact, this resolution recognises the role of regions in the development of transport infrastructures.
in writing. ‒ high-quality transport links are essential for european economic activities and for the quality of life of citizens. the objective of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is to develop an integrated multimodal transport network at eu level. the european parliament must keep the momentum of this new ten-t process alive and address the challenges of accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern european member states, which have undergone improvements and modernisation since the pre-accession period up to now, but where there are still serious gaps. these must be met to stimulate economic growth and job opportunities for citizens and businesses. in addition, the maintenance of sustainable transport links should be seen as an increasingly important factor in promoting the stability and security of the eu's eastern border and the western balkans. in this context, member states and the commission must make the missing links and ensure unimpeded links. it is essential that the member states of central and eastern europe and the commission step up coordination at all stages of transport policy and project planning, as significant ongoing investment is required.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a major impact on economic growth, employment and territorial cohesion in the eu. central and eastern europe is an essential part of the european single market and has the right potential to attract investment and thus contribute to economic growth throughout the eu. in order to contribute to the development of the single market, transport modes in toto should contribute to the strengthening of competitiveness, intermodality and the green transition. the use of eu funding should therefore reflect the actual investment needs for the completion of the ten-t core network in the region by 2030. in addition to the need to create new infrastructure, europe must invest in the modernisation and completion of existing transport infrastructure. the strategic geographical position of central and eastern europe can make it an important logistical centre and a key communication hub between europe and asia.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr poręba aims to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern regions of the eu by investing in the modernisation and completion of existing transport infrastructure. the report addresses the various critical issues of transport modes, starting with road transport, which highlights the need for a better infrastructure network along the eu's eastern border. the road safety factor is taken into account. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ high-quality and unhindered transport links are essential for economic development and the quality of life of our european citizens. transport infrastructure in the union has undoubtedly improved over the last decades, contributing to the rebuilding of links in the central and eastern european member states. however, much remains to be done to address the gaps in access and connectivity in some regions. it is clear that these challenges require sustained and significant investment plans and appropriate coordination at all stages of transport policy and project planning. in this sense, i believe that the transeuropean transport network (ten-t) is an important instrument which can promote not only the interconnection and coordination of national networks but, more generally, boost growth and development in european territories, especially in rural and more remote areas. i voted in favour of the report because it is oriented towards the principles of sustainability and accessibility in the development of transport infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which deals with important infrastructure issues, including those relating to the eastern part of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to ensure quality transport links, which are a resource for increasing economic activity and the quality of life of citizens. networks should be easily accessible and well connected and should include a local, regional, national and cross-border dimension of passenger and freight transport. transport infrastructure has undergone significant improvements and modernisation thanks to eu support, but despite the progress made, there are still gaps in accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure across central and eastern europe. the commission has therefore decided to make the necessary changes to the existing network. i believe that cooperation within the eu's macro-regional strategies could be useful in addressing transport policy issues that cannot be solved by individual member states. all efforts should be made in the context of a results- and performance-oriented approach, seeking cost-effective and environmentally friendly transport solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to continue the ten-t process with the aim of increasingly improving the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern eu member states, also with a view to improving border stability and security. cooperation within the framework of the eu's macro-regional strategies can also provide important help in this direction: the use of the innovative governance mechanism could facilitate the resolution of outstanding transport policy issues that cannot be resolved by individual member states.
in writing. ‒ the accessibility and interconnection of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe is still underdeveloped compared to other european regions. however, the construction of new long-distance, regional and urban transport and the modernisation of existing ones are priorities for the fair and sustainable development of european territories and the eu's single market in terms of employment, growth and economic competitiveness. they are therefore the primary means of achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the points made. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. in particular, a more efficient use of existing policies and instruments for regional cooperation, such as european territorial cooperation (etc), interreg and european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtc), to eliminate bottlenecks between regions in the cross-border transport system. it is also important to promote the potential of hybrid public-private partnership projects by linking european funding sources with public and private resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that it aims to improve and develop transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe alone, and does not in fact include the same efforts for the east-west and north-south transport routes, which would include the completion of the a27 motorway and the improvement of the italian-austrian road transport network.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report as i agree with the need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ cohesion and economic and social development require a strengthening of the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure. because a solid network of accessible and extensive freight links encourages business and therefore growth, promotes job and personal mobility, increases opportunities for social and professional integration and stimulates tourism and the economy. investing in connectivity and mobility means therefore networking experiences and knowledge, tackling exclusion and poverty, strengthening cooperation and removing physical barriers to facilitate mobility for people with disabilities. i therefore fully share the idea of inclusive and sustainable growth promoted by the report 'improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe because i believe it is essential that europe has high-quality, modern links between the member states, which ensure the improvement of the quality of life of our citizens on the one hand and the achievement of the eu's environmental objectives on the other. the structural funds have been a driving force behind the modernisation of rail, sea and road links in central and eastern europe, enabling several states to make a significant leap forward in the quality and quantity of their transport infrastructure. however, some gaps remain, and the eu must work to fill them by investing as much as possible in transport modes with a low environmental impact. i remain convinced that the completion of the ten-t programme and public investment in transport is a key element in the pursuit of smart and sustainable growth, because it creates jobs in the short term, while having a positive impact on several other sectors of the economy, and has an immediate impact on the image of the eu itself in the eyes of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ my vote is in favour of this report on improving the trans-european transport networks so that our countries are increasingly connected and the disparities between our regions are reduced, while remaining consistent with the directions we are giving as the european parliament for the revision of cohesion policy. the 2030 deadline for the strategic core network must be the main focus of our work both in the territories concerned by this measure and in the european parliament, where we must continue to urge the relevant institutions to implement the projects agreed and supported by the union, especially in border areas, which will otherwise continue to miss the social and commercial benefits of european integration.
in writing. the promotion of cohesion policies (economic, social and territorial) starts with the effective functioning of transport networks in the various member states, which must offer accessible and well-connected networks for passenger and freight transport. operational instruments include the trans-european transport network (ten-t) project and the connecting europe facility (cef), which aims to develop an integrated multimodal transport network at european level and to implement eu transport infrastructure policies. these initiatives aim to complete the strategic core network by 2030 and the comprehensive network by 2050, projects which will only be possible through the contribution and collaboration of all member states. parliament therefore calls for continued support for this process and for the challenges of accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the member states, which have already seen considerable improvement but still need further development in terms of economic and employment growth and accessibility and connectivity of infrastructure. mobility is essential for development, and that is why i am in favour of improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration, bearing in mind the impact that connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have on economic growth and economic competitiveness. similarly, the existence of well-developed cross-border transport links is essential for regional competitiveness as well as for the expansion of smes in border areas and the social inclusion of the most vulnerable and isolated populations. i am convinced that stricter measures are needed in this area, and i think it is necessary to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the development of transport links is certainly one of the objectives that europe must pursue. promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within and between eu member states is based on easily accessible and well-connected transport networks, which include the local, regional, national and cross-border dimension of passenger and freight transport. at union level, the objective of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is to develop an integrated multimodal transport network at eu level by promoting the interconnection and interoperability of national networks and access to that network. i think it is right to join the rapporteur in his view that the time has come for the european parliament to continue to address the remaining challenges in the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern member states. despite the progress made, i believe that there are still serious gaps in the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure across the central and eastern european union. these gaps should therefore be closed in order to provide the greatest possible incentive for economic growth and job opportunities for citizens and businesses. for these reasons i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. considering that connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a significant impact on economic growth and competitiveness, employment and political and territorial cohesion, this report stresses the need to improve the missing links in the regions of central and eastern europe, ensuring the development of ten-t corridors and promoting the extension of connectivity to passengers and freight. the report takes all modes of transport into account, calling not only for the creation of major infrastructure projects but also for the improvement of the internal rail, air and sea systems. the need to respect the protection of the environment and biodiversity is also underlined, and useful and urgent measures are called for to eliminate discrimination against people with disabilities caused by architectural barriers in the management of transport.
in writing. ‒ connectivity and access to transport infrastructure have a major impact on the growth and development of the territory, especially if they are well integrated into a seamless connection at european level. however, the infrastructure networks of central and eastern europe are lagging behind those of other eu regions. it is therefore necessary to act, in the ultimate consumer interest, to develop the infrastructure network where it is lacking, whether at rail, road, inland waterway, maritime or air level, with a view to achieving the ten-t objectives and creating opportunities for smes and start-ups. the network must not only be developed on the basis of profitability but also provide a sound logistical support for the seamless transport of people and goods across the european continent.
in writing. the report highlights the need to improve the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern regions of the eu by investing in the modernisation and completion of existing transport infrastructure. the report addresses the various critical issues of transport modes, starting with road transport, and highlights the need to improve the infrastructure network along the eu's eastern border to meet road safety requirements. the importance of modernising and maintaining railway lines is emphasised in the rail transport sector. the aim is to achieve consistent and sustainable growth in rail transport, which will help to reduce the climate impact, air pollution and road accidents. for regional airports, it is requested that the construction of new infrastructure be dependent on traffic demand and that the use of eu funds be strictly limited to economically viable and sustainable projects. these are the factors which led me to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights are founding values of the european union, enshrined in the treaties and promoted in the daily work of the eu institutions. recent developments in some member states and the progress of the integration process itself have, however, demonstrated the existence of gaps in this area, inefficiencies which make it necessary to review and supplement the existing mechanisms in order to ensure that the principles of the treaties are respected, protected and promoted throughout the union. the report by mrs sophia in 't veld, which i supported with my vote, calls for the conclusion of a union pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, in the form of an interinstitutional agreement, to facilitate cooperation between the institutions and the member states under article 7 teu. the covenant should provide for sanctions that can act as an effective deterrent to prevent violations, as well as for periodic monitoring of the compatibility of international agreements ratified by states and the union containing primary and secondary law provisions. these measures should be taken in anticipation of an increasingly necessary reform of the treaties to deepen political integration while strengthening the protection of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i strongly disagree with the european institutions' renewed attempt to undermine the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which each member state should be able to manage on its own. a serious union which respects the sovereignty of its member countries does not try to exercise total control over them; the commission is committed to guaranteeing the principle of subsidiarity, which is essential to enable states to carry out their duties in the service of the citizen. for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution that has the aim of listing our recommendations to the commission upon the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. indeed, a proposal is expected from the commission by september 2017 for the conclusion of a union pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this is an interinstitutional agreement aimed at facilitating cooperation with regard to these matters. i voted in favour because i shared the recommendations listed in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union has enshrined democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (drf) in its treaties and eu accession criteria. the commission has the power to enforce eu law in the member states under the eu treaties. several instruments are available for this purpose, although these are often lacking, inadequate or ineffective. the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that is impartial and reliable and applied fairly by all member states is therefore necessary. a european pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights may be adopted in the form of an interinstitutional agreement. this agreement should aim to establish the modalities for optimal cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states, integrating and aligning existing mechanisms and providing an integrated review mechanism to prevent violations and non-compliance with the drf. respect for the rule of law is a prerequisite for the protection of fundamental rights and is of particular importance within the union as it is also a prerequisite for upholding all rights and obligations deriving from the treaties and from international law.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have given my positive vote to the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i believe that the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights are values which must be protected more than they are today, in the face of possible violations of the same principles that occur precisely in our western democracies. it should be stressed that the corollaries of legal certainty, 'substantive' protection of fundamental rights and the effectiveness of protection are a joint and innate expression of the fundamental rights themselves. the aim of ensuring effective protection is therefore not only the task of the judiciary but first and foremost that of the national and eu legislature, which must lay down correct and coherent legal bases to "replace fundamental rights at the centre" of the union's legal construction. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a union pact to raise awareness of these issues and promote good governance, transparency and accountability in the field of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends the establishment of a european mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. to this end, the commission is requested to submit, by september 2017, a proposal for an interinstitutional agreement establishing a european charter of fundamental rights in order to facilitate cooperation between the institutions of the european union and the member states and to complement and align the different existing mechanisms. my vote was in favour.
in writing. - i vote against the motion for a resolution. the text does not respect the principle of subsidiarity to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i spoke in favour of a measure which has been a rather difficult one to produce. having a common mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights reflects the real needs of many member states, in particular the protection of these ideals is rooted in the trust of citizens in the institutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. in any case, this report expresses confidence in the commission's ability to produce a clear and concise analysis of the need to ensure the rule of law and the effectiveness of independent judicial systems. i would like to stress that this is a way of making citizens fully aware of their rights as europeans and thus of restoring confidence in the institutions. the implementation of structural reforms to overcome this crisis will therefore be made easier in a climate of calm dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the proposed agreement sets out useful arrangements to facilitate cooperation between the eu institutions and its member states by integrating and harmonising some existing mechanisms. the new single framework to be implemented must be objective, evidence-based, fair and equitable to all member states and must include both a preventive and a corrective dimension.
in writing. ‒ a mechanism that can devote itself entirely to safeguarding democratic values, the rule of law and fundamental rights could prove decisive in addressing or, better still, preventing possible violations in this area. so i think it is our duty to at least try to make sure that the mechanism, once it is in place, fully respects the ideas that led to its creation, not that it becomes a super-state entity that is useless, but that it really does provide a valuable support to which all member states can refer. the commission is also making sure that it acts in parallel and jointly with the national bodies of each member state in a climate of harmonious and mutual cooperation, without one stepping on the feet of the other. and of course, by ensuring its integrity and impartiality, without lending itself to political instrumentalization of any kind. if all this is respected to the end: i approve of it.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on common values, such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, which are a precondition for a well-functioning union based on mutual trust. however, today our fundamental values are not sufficiently protected by effective instruments to ensure their protection throughout the european union. in the absence of coherent action, the need for a new and more effective eu mechanism seems to be urgent. i therefore welcomed this legislative initiative proposal for the establishment of a binding eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which monitors and reports annually on violations of democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states, includes objective benchmarks and establishes a phased approach to remedying violations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that there is no solid legal basis in the existing treaties for a mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. article 7 teu is sufficient in this respect, as it gives the eu council the power to assess the risks in this area. the proposed mechanism goes beyond the mandate provided for in the treaties and constitutes an abuse of the institution of interinstitutional agreements. these agreements are established to promote cooperation between the eu institutions within the framework of existing competences, and not to create new ones (article 295 tfeu).
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it imposes further control and loss of sovereignty to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the text voted on today on the new human rights mechanism is very important. the new european commission undertook at the beginning of its mandate to present an instrument enabling europe to act in response to the numerous instances of non-respect for human rights in some member states. as with economic or environmental parameters, europe must rightly be able to set up a system for monitoring compliance with the obligations of the member states arising from the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights annexed thereto. european action has been rather timid in this respect. the commission, with the full support of parliament's committee on civil liberties, is now introducing a monitoring and evaluation indicator with defined criteria, subject to the judgement of independent experts and bodies appointed by the european parliament. parliament will be vigilant in ensuring that democracy and the rule of law are consistent throughout europe with the values on which the eu is founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights because i believe that it is necessary to create a politically neutral, impartial but effective and effective instrument to ensure respect for the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and the values of democracy, peace, freedom and human solidarity on which the eu is founded. the recent discussions between the commission and some governments have shown that the eu, despite the provisions and procedures of the treaties, has no effective instruments, other than diplomatic pressure, to punish behaviour which is contrary to its values. this is a crisis of values and a way forward for ideologies and phenomena that we thought had disappeared. the parliament's proposal, which will now have to be discussed with the member states, is a good starting point: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. practical indicators to measure compliance with european values analysed by independent experts will avoid any accusation of politicization on individual issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives us the opportunity to reaffirm once again what european identity really means: it means respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which are among the objectives and principles on which our union is founded. we can't afford to ignore these. we ask our trading partners, the countries that make up the european neighbourhood, to respect this. we can't be the ones to give you up. we call on all member states to follow the directives issued by the european commission in this regard. to date, there is no agreement between us on systematic, impartial and comprehensive monitoring of all eu member states and its institutions. we must therefore take care of this and develop a wider framework to counter, on our own territory, in our democracies, the serious threats to the rule of law and to fundamental rights that may exist.
in writing. in the absence of a mechanism for systematic and impartial monitoring vis-à-vis the member states and the institutions, it is called for a stable and effective legal framework to be adopted, which would allow the defence of european norms and values, which are essential for the proper functioning of the union in all policy areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this agreement must be objective, preventive and corrective, and it must provide for a review mechanism to be applied equally to all member states and institutions. the rights of our citizens and the values of the union must be applied in a comprehensive and non-discriminatory way, and for these reasons i am voting in favour of parliament's proposal on the eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ we support the report with recommendations to the commission to set up a european mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. although these values are given a fundamental importance in the treaties, there are difficulties in their practical application today, as evidenced by some recent cases in which some member states, called upon by the commission to respect these values, have shown themselves reluctant to recognise them. this parliamentary initiative is very important, as it aims to equip the community institutions with preventive, sanctioning and corrective instruments for possible infringements that can undermine fundamental european values such as democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in particular, considering that these issues are not easily measurable, we consider it particularly relevant that the socialist and democratic group has managed to include in the text the idea of having an independent expert group so as to ensure maximum impartiality in the context of the so-called democracy scoreboard, another instrument suggested in the report to assess and monitor the compliance of member states. the full use of the instruments already in place, together with the additions proposed by the text, would bring about a substantial improvement in the respect of values so important for our future.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration, as i fully agree with your colleague that the rule of law is the backbone of european liberal democracy and one of the founding principles of the union. furthermore, all member states and union bodies have a duty to respect, protect and promote those principles and values. i am also convinced that the union has a duty to promote the safeguarding of democracy and fundamental rights, and i am voting in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a wide range of instruments to ensure that its laws and treaties are respected in economic and market matters. this is not the case when it comes to enforcing obligations relating to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the commission can, for example, ask the member states to adjust their budgets when they are not in line with european legislation, and no one disputes that the member states are obliged to follow the commission's instructions. but when it comes to respect for the fundamental principles on which the union is founded, too often the member states are reluctant to follow the commission's invitations, in its role as guardian of the treaties, or openly refuse. this leads to an erosion of mutual trust and of the citizens' trust in the institutions. it is therefore time to develop a systematic, impartial and comprehensive procedure to monitor and ensure that the values on which the union is founded are respected, both by the member states and by the european institutions themselves. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are at the top of the priorities set out in the treaties, and it is time that these priorities were also defended in practice.
in writing. ‒ respect for the rule of law within the union is an essential condition for the protection of fundamental rights and for the observance of all rights and obligations under the treaties and international law. the approach proposed by the rapporteur seems, however, to give rise to legitimate concerns about the application of a common eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which could be misused to the detriment of some member states. if that were the case, a large part of european public opinion would be against the establishment of such a mechanism. moreover, systems of rule of law control are already an integral part of the constitutions of all member states. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european union must aim to be at the forefront of the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. the establishment of a comprehensive union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights will only be effective if the institutions work together and with civil society to develop and implement an awareness-raising campaign that enables union citizens to fully own their rights and informs them of their rights to legal redress and legal action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the report stresses that the eu has a multitude of instruments at its disposal for the application of its laws and treaties when it comes to material issues (such as adjusting member states' budgets or implementing specific public health programmes), but has no influence on ensuring respect for democratic values and the rule of law which should be common to all member states. although the eu has several instruments to do this and to try to monitor compliance with the common principles, these are deficient, limited in scope and inadequate. the report considers it essential for the eu to have a regulatory framework enabling it to address and condemn, including through the application of sanctions, violations of fundamental rights and european principles (former articles 2, 3 and 7 teu) and therefore asks the commission to submit a proposal for the establishment of such a monitoring mechanism by september 2017.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the attacks in paris and brussels, after brexit, after what is happening daily in southern europe, after the rejection of ceta a few days ago, it is no longer possible to look at the action of the european institutions as before. the signal that we received yesterday is not merely a technical signal, limited to a trade agreement, it is above all a political signal and no european institution other than this parliament should take it seriously. there is a will to radical change in the european institutions, which more and more citizens want. whatever the final configuration of the 2017 working programme, certain aspects cannot be disregarded. first of all, the mass emigration: in recent weeks, italian ships have rescued 20,000 people and the attack on mosul will worsen the emergency. the numbers leave no room for indecision, and even less can indecision be shown when internal security is at stake, because security is the first right and the first need that our citizens ask us to protect. the brexit experience has taught us that the gap between politics and institutions cannot be bridged by proclamations or threats. eight years of economic crisis have pinned the european institutions to their failure to rebuild the common european home on a stronger foundation. mr president, i hope that your efforts to achieve an interinstitutional consensus will be successful, i really do, but i would like you to know that whole groups of members were unable to participate fully in that dialogue because of the lack of respect for internal democracy on the part of the stronger groups, and those who took the responsibility of excluding them at that time should know that the voice of the citizens, of all citizens, will always know how to make itself heard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european union is presenting us with a vast programme, as general de gaulle would have called it when he saw the sign 'death to the cretins'. i think that we are talking about a quick solution to the problem of immigration, of tackling the problem of relocation, when all the television news channels throughout europe, through euronews, are giving us images of what is happening even on the italian coast, where 4,000 people landed yesterday and 500 to 700 to 1,000 people land every day, and europe is unable to take this seriously. so this is a totally illusory program starting from immigration. on the other hand, if we turn to the international issue, we see what the commission intends to do with africa, we do not see serious, decisive measures, for example for the implementation of the cotonou agreements which provide for the obligation for african countries exporting immigrants to take back their economic immigrants when they do not meet the requirements. and that is not happening because europe is not important. we are shooting at mosul, we are shooting at aleppo, there are important interests there in an area which is strategic from an economic and military point of view for the member states of the european union, but where is europe? mrs mogherini is always on the move, she always tells us that she has excellent relations, she calls all these people her friends, but then when she speaks, and if she does speak, you don't see the results, you don't even hear the sound of her voice. then enough of this illegal immigration! let us finally make the defence of the external borders a reality! we don't want to be invaded!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in the face of the serious crisis the union is going through, the trauma of brexit, the selfishness of european governments who think only of their own national debates and electoral deadlines, of those who want the benefits of being in the eu but refuse to share its responsibilities, in the face of this it seems to me that the commission's work programme still has the flavour of business as usual, too timid about the social dimension of the union, to which the commission also committed itself at the beginning of its mandate, but the words are not yet followed by concrete proposals to give the citizens the answers they expect. on asylum and immigration, the security approach that has already failed is being confirmed and we are moving towards a progressive externalisation of our borders, creating a worrying filter on entry. where is the solidarity and the common responses that this parliament has repeatedly called for in order to distribute responsibilities more evenly among the member states? i think we are choosing to indulge the selfishness of some of these people. that is not how we are going to save the union from disintegration. some progress has been made in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, but a simple principle still needs to be stressed: that taxes are paid where profits are made.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the commission for its efforts to concentrate its work on priorities which clearly meet the needs of the citizens. i want to remember some of them. first of all, the work we are doing in parliament with the three reports on the future of the union, which is also aimed at opening up the dialogue with the commission on the updating of the report of the five presidents. secondly, i would like to mention another joint work which we should be doing in the coming period, namely on the transparency register and the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking and, lastly, the need to give strong answers to issues such as migration, defence, security, youth unemployment and the revival of investment in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank vice-president timmermans for his willingness to give very, shall we say, concise and strategic indications, but i think that 2017 really cannot be a normal year, it will be a very special year, i would not like it to be just the year of brexit, it must be the 60th anniversary of the treaties, and as such, i think it is important what he is doing for the institutional, political and economic revival. i would put the young at the centre. i would also ask the commission to consider that next year will be two anniversaries, 60 years of the treaty and 30 years of erasmus. let us put the erasmus generation at the centre of the debate so that together we can restore the citizens' confidence in what europe should be. i believe that from this point of view it will be necessary to include among the ten priorities, which are now the only ones, a subject without which there is no future in the european perspective. i am talking about cultural policies, education policies and cohesion policies, and therefore social inclusion and the social agenda. i also think it is important that we also respect what mr juncker said - and i close - when he said that creativity, culture and authors are the crown jewels. we are consistent, we are integrating more of this aspect, this strategic sector of cultural heritage, of the creative cultural industry into industrial policies, into growth policies and also into innovation policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spiral of economic crisis into which europe has been plunged for over eight years continues to bite and make life precarious for millions of european citizens. it is now clear that this is a structural crisis and that immediate, concrete but also innovative measures are needed. the transition to a circular model needs to be accelerated. employment remains the top priority, but targeted investment in research and new technologies is needed to foster sustainable growth, optimising the use of resources, and launching a modern post-2020 cohesion policy that respects the true nature of an investment instrument and that is actually valid for all regions of the european union. synergies between the european structural and investment funds, the efsi and other funding instruments should be strengthened in order to optimise their use. finally, access to capital for enterprises and smes and the adoption of effective social protection measures must be facilitated so that the poverty reduction objective of the europe 2020 strategy does not remain a mere good intention.
in writing. this 2017 action programme confirms the european commission's alarming blindness to the pressing political, economic and social problems that have been destabilising europe for years and its inability to identify concrete and adequate solutions. beyond empty and pompous declarations of intent, this programme is in fact intent on reproposing the same short-sighted and failed political strategy that has led the european union into the deepest economic, political and social crisis since its founding, without in the least questioning its effectiveness and without admitting, against all evidence, the serious mistakes made so far. it is alarming that the commission does not consider as a priority the problems of excessive macroeconomic imbalances and asymmetric effects between member states generated by the single currency, the technocratic drift of decision-making mechanisms, or the lack of democratic legitimacy in the instruments of economic coordination, or the failure to reform finance on the basis of the lessons of the crisis, and the lack of consideration of the general interest of european citizens in decisions that indirectly determine their lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on this excellent report and i am also pleased with the commission's opening remarks, particularly on flexibility and the reserve of unspent funds, although i believe that the 2017 budget negotiations need to be aligned with the mff negotiations in order to have an overall picture. it's good that there's a strong focus on the young. three points to emphasize: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. secondly: why is it that the budget for cosmos and erasmus is being increased, and not for two programmes which are extremely important for innovation, growth and employment, especially for young people? i am talking about creative europe, thinking of all the cultural and audiovisual industries and also the cultural sector, and europe for citizens. i think it's important at this point to emphasize how inclusive policies and the strengthening of innovation and citizenship are just as important as other programmes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the multiannual financial framework provides a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties which are currently threatening europe's credibility. the problems of migration, internal security, the crisis in the agricultural sector, the persistently high rate of unemployment, especially among young people, require the adoption of appropriate measures and a considerable amount of additional funds from the budget of the european union which were not provided for in the first years of the current multiannual financial framework because of the limited resources available. the council must now turn its words into action, ensuring a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable budget for the next years of the multiannual financial framework. the revision should aim to strike a balance between meeting the union's long-term priorities and responding to new emerging challenges by introducing measures that make the budget more transparent and accessible to european citizens.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman and rapporteur of the envi committee, i would like to stress the importance of implementing multiannual programmes which are our responsibility: the third union programme of action in the field of health, the environment and climate action programme, expenditure on climate change, including in the light of the paris agreement and its subsequent implementation. i think it is essential to restore the cuts made by the council's reading and to ensure that these programmes and lines of intervention have adequate resources, both in terms of commitments and payments. i would also like to stress the importance of horizon 2020 for research projects in the fields of environment, climate and health in order to stimulate innovation and develop the green economy which is essential for employment and development. finally, i would stress the important role of decentralised agencies, which are essential for the implementation of the union's policies and programmes and for which we call for the restoration of resources, both human and financial, to ensure the means necessary to achieve the objectives set by the union's rules.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the current priorities of the union's transport policy, such as eliminating bottlenecks in the ten-t network and completing the missing links, call for a strengthening of the connecting europe facility in the context of the annual budgetary procedure to compensate for the cuts decided during the negotiations on the european fund for strategic investments. it is worth emphasising the need to support european union spending on efficient infrastructure and sustainable transport modes, also paying attention to noise reduction. the development of rail, maritime and inland waterway transport as an alternative to road transport should be promoted, by supporting the integration and interconnection of transport modes. the role of tourism is also of fundamental importance, and a direct budget line should be introduced for this sector, given its importance for small and mediumsized enterprises and for employment.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work, but i must say that i think that, unfortunately, the european union budget this year too is full of promises and good intentions, which will not be kept, as i think has happened too often in the past. i do not believe and i do not think that the instruments proposed against the various crises facing the european union today are resolvable. i am talking, for example, about the billions of euros we are putting into guaranteeing the failed juncker plan or the hundreds of millions of euros we have guaranteed to the dictator erdogan for a deal on migrants which has proved to be inefficient to say the least, not to mention the costs of the immense bureaucracy in brussels and the european parliament which do not want to cut. well, i think that is not the right approach to take in setting the budget and the example we have to set for the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr geier, the committee and the commissioner for their work, which enables us, the rapporteur and the commission, to vote tomorrow on a good budget which recovers funds from horizon 2020 and thus for our companies, our companies, our universities and research institutes, public administrations, recovers funds from youth employment, recovers funds, pushing to the very top of the budget itself, on the subject of immigration and migrants, recovers, despite everything, money also for humanitarian aid, cooperation and development. in short, we did our best, the rapporteur and the committee did their best with what they had, with what was available. as we heard, as we saw, however, what was there and the resources that are there were not enough. we're running the paper. that's the problem. we risk being in charge of our daily lives and having no perspective, no vision, no scenario. in fact, in this chamber, between the commission and parliament, there are perspectives, scenarios and visions, and they are intended to keep the discussion on the 2017 budget together with the revision of the multiannual financial framework. so push it to 2020. the question i ask is whether the council is ready, whether the heads of state or government are ready to face not only the day-to-day but a wider scenario with us. i would say that we are not building managers who have to decide the annual heating costs, we have a somewhat higher task, we are trying to restructure this building that is europe from the foundations. so is the council going to do this hard work with us to give new perspectives, especially to the younger generation, or not?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget must reflect and support priorities such as boosting investment, in particular for innovation, growth and jobs, pursuing the structural reforms needed to modernise the european economy, conducting responsible policies, increasing competitiveness and promoting the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. the union is facing emergencies and challenges that were not foreseen when the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework was drawn up. we must therefore ensure that additional appropriations are made available. the 2017 budget must meet, for example, the need related to the migration challenge and the slow growth of the economy due to the economic crisis. the persistence of high levels of youth unemployment is a matter of concern, for which effective and concrete responses must be developed and the increase in the allocation of the youth employment initiative (yoi) is only a first step in order to allow the continuation and acceleration of the initiative.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i thank professor starbatty for his explanation, which i consider to be very authoritative, and i would like to ask him - since he is also a german and therefore very intellectually honest - not to defend economic and monetary union - if it is not appropriate at this point, rather than moving towards a very difficult integration which continues to present the same problems, to agree together on a disintegration before it happens in a disorderly way, thank you.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to take advantage of the presence of the commission and the commissioner to ask him what he expects from the european rules on trade surpluses, given that the union, as this report also states, is experiencing imbalances due to the fact that economic and monetary union is not complete. these imbalances generate an excessive trade surplus, which is also sanctioned and highlighted by the imf and oecd reports. germany and the netherlands have repeatedly broken these rules, but you continue to be strong with the weak countries: we are blocking funds in spain and portugal, we are breaking the boxes in italy, but germany and the netherlands are still doing this distortion. moreover, even with regard to the deficit, if we look at president juncker, he says that france is france and therefore can do whatever he wants with the rules. so the rules don't work, just like the semester doesn't work. and i can understand the position of germans like ferber, the colleague who dealt with the report with me, who are in favour of austerity, in favour of the stability and growth pact, but i cannot understand why the socialists are still in favour of what is written in this report, because the same mantra has been repeated for two years now: more austerity, more reforms, more liberalization of services, of the labour market, of private investment, of wage devaluations, of protests. but you voted to change this dogma about the stability and growth pact, you voted to do one thing, instead you have governors like renzi in italy, who go around saying they want to change the rules, then there is the insert in the constitution in 2012 supporting balanced budgets. further constitutional reform now in 2016 still the european constraints reiterated in the constitution. what do you want to change? you are a unique thing about this european project which, if it does not put the debate on the euro and imbalances at the centre, as stiglitz said, will sink and unfortunately sink in an unorderly way. we have to agree to find a solution to do it in an orderly way, otherwise it's going to be a big problem for everyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this package is part of the wider objective of linking taxation to the place where the actual activity of the undertaking takes place. the commission notes that the irish branches of apple and apple inc. have been granted a tax exemption for the purposes of article 107 (1) of the treaty. conscious that the relaunch of the cctb and the further attempt to legislate on corporation tax are convinced of this represent a necessary means of harmonising the rules by which companies calculate their taxable income throughout the european union. of course, the consolidation element is the most delicate aspect of the proposal, but i agree with the methodology of profit sharing based on work, activity and sales.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. diseases that seriously threaten the health of our plants, posing serious risks to biodiversity and consequently to the competitiveness of our agricultural and forestry sector. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs anthea mcintyre, also on behalf of mrs viorica dăncilă, for the excellent work she has done and the important result achieved. the text we are about to adopt guarantees a high level of protection and safety throughout the union against the importation of organisms harmful to plant products. the protection of our frontiers is becoming increasingly indispensable, also in view of the recent outbreaks of epidemics in europe, such as the case of the zylella fastidiosa, which is threatening to destroy an inestimable part of the priceless olive-growing heritage of southern italy, and the problems relating to the red palm-tree or chestnut cynipids, all consequences of uncontrolled importation of infected plants and organisms from third countries which have found fertile ground in our territory. we cannot wait any longer. this new regulation is very necessary in order to establish a plant health regime in europe capable of preventing and combating the spread of harmful organisms effectively.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have new rules to curb the influx of pests such as xylella, perhaps also resulting from increased trade and climate change. this regulation has passed, it is a step forward for the protection of agriculture, its traditions and the environment. this is possible thanks to defined preventive measures, stricter import regimes, compensation commensurate with the real value of the plants destroyed and restrictive conditions for the protection of the environment. but the xylella emergency has shown the contradictions of the commission: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the plant health plan is implemented in italy, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his reply. all this was never done in puglia, showing that italy was unable to defend its territory and that the commission was not a guarantor of its directives. i thank the commission for its reply and as france, which does not intend to cut down the olive trees in menton, thus confirming the impracticability of the european decision, we are going forward stronger in defence of our olive trees.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow's vote is a great achievement for europe, because the risk of pathogens from third countries invading is increasing. in recent years we have seen the destruction of part of our ornamental heritage due to lax controls and the failure to block imports, sometimes when necessary. i am thinking, for example, of what has happened with the annoying xylella, what has happened with the red palm pointer, what is likely to happen with the citrus black spot on citrus fruits. it is time for a change of course and i am sure that only by more serious analysis of the plant material entering the european union can we prevent further cases of invasion. the new plant passport, a new instrument of the regulation, will ensure that plant material entering the european union is free from pathogens and will therefore make it possible to reduce considerably the risk of importing harmful organisms from third countries, organisms which, it is worth remembering, represent a real threat to our production process and cause damage to european consumers and producers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new regulation is an important step forward in the fight against organisms harmful to plants and thus in the protection of biodiversity. the definition of the most dangerous harmful organisms, known as quarantine, the better division between priority harmful organisms, i.e. subject to stricter rules on eradication and information to the public, and the obligation for professional operators to register will ensure more effective controls and better traceability. this regulation therefore adjusts the activities related to trade both within the union and with third countries by means of a risk-based assessment. these are rules designed to curb the increasing influx of organisms harmful to plants, such as xylella fastidiosa or cinipidae for chestnuts, into the european union. finally, it is essential to ensure that there is a sufficient interconnection, which is not at present foreseen, between the regulation in question and the international standards deriving from the agreements of the international plant protection convention.
author of the book. madam president, commissioner andriukaitis, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, i rise to speak on behalf of the seven co-signatories of the resolution tabled following two questions for written answer. trans fatty acids are unsaturated fats found in many industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. the legislation on tfa is one of the priorities of the european parliament, which here reiterates its concern about the risks posed by tfa to human health. consumption of these oils is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. in fact, a study was recently published showing a significant correlation between the consumption of trans fats and brain ischaemic events. there is also strong suspicion that these acids may contribute to a large extent to arteriosclerosis processes and thus increase the risks of myocardial infarction. the who and fao recommend reducing intake to below 1% of daily caloric intake through diet, while efsa, the european food safety authority, recommends that as little as possible be taken. parliament therefore considers that action at national level alone is not appropriate and that action by the european union is necessary in order to reduce the average intake of trans acids significantly. trans-fatty acids are used by the food industry for their characteristics, giving products the desired consistency and ensuring a long shelf life, but above all they are an inexpensive production factor. the foods currently produced with these acids are mainly foods consumed widely among young people. it is precisely the lack of awareness on the part of consumers of the adverse health effects of tfas that makes mandatory labelling for these acids an important, if incomplete, tool. we call on the european commission to introduce as soon as possible a legal limit in the european union on the content of industrial tfas, both as ingredients and as final products in all food products, in order to reduce the intake by the entire population. we also ask that this proposal be accompanied by an impact assessment which examines the industrial reformulation costs to be incurred in the event of the introduction of a mandatory limit and the potential spillover of these costs to consumers. finally, we call on the commission to work with the member states to improve nutritional literacy by encouraging and enabling consumers to make healthier food choices and by engaging industry to promote the healthful reformulation of products. as representatives of the public, we have an obligation to call for the adoption of useful tools to enable consumers to make healthier choices about the food they eat and about diet in general, and which could promote the provision of healthier food options to consumers, including, in this case, the provision of information on trans fats or restrictions on their use.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have spoken about impact assessment. we urge you to act quickly because it's scientifically proven that the intake of trans fats increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity and even diabetes. it is almost superfluous to mention that these types of noncommunicable diseases are the leading cause of death in the world. yet, trans fats are found in industrially produced partially hydrogenated oils used in biscuits, cakes, popcorn, crackers, and many other supermarket products. all the foods that are mostly eaten by children. at the time, the world health organization reported that in the european union, 1 in 3 children between the ages of 6 and 9 are obese, and about 7 percent of european health spending is spent on treating obesity-related diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. we therefore ask the commission to introduce this legal limit on tfa to reduce the use by citizens of the european union. we are calling for action to ensure that the food industry is obliged to obtain health-compliant treatments for trans fats. we also call for the substitution of palm oil for tfa. we also call for consumers to be given the opportunity to make more informed food choices by informing them of the health risks of their products.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress the urgency of more decisive action at european level to limit the amount of industrial trans-fatty acids in food. given that there are no good foods and bad foods, but only good diets and bad diets, and that food information and education are therefore a central issue in order to limit the risks to human health and the occurrence of serious diseases, especially cardiovascular diseases, i believe that in this particular case the choice of mandatory labelling would only be a partial answer. it would only concern pre-packaged food, and most europeans are not able to distinguish between good and bad fats, but base their choices mainly on price, and it would impose an excessive burden on small producers. the solution, which is an invitation to the commission, can only be to set a single harmonised limit on the quantity of tfa of industrial origin at european union level, which avoids the fragmentation of the single market and facilitates trade with non-eu countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the increased intake of trans fatty acids, which are highly harmful to our bodies, is essentially linked to the consumption of industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. the who considers that the consumption of these naturally occurring acids, particularly in dairy products and meat, is so low that it is unlikely to pose a risk to human health. on the other hand, a high intake of industrial tfa, mainly found in baked goods, increases the risk of developing heart disease, diabetes and obesity. this is all the more alarming when one considers that children and citizens with lower socioeconomic status and education are the most likely to consume foods with a high tfa content. pending the impact study, i hope, also in the light of the positive danish experience, that legal limits will be introduced on the content of industrial trans fats in order to reduce their intake by the entire population.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. i am becoming convinced that some members of the european council have not memorized well the joke of the cycling president romano prodi who said: "to ride a bicycle, you have to pedal, or you'll fall to the ground". this is europe: you have to ride a bike to get ahead. if the european council does not pedal or pedals slowly, it will fall to the ground. and so it is happening. it was the same at the last council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. it is reasonable that sanctions have not been imposed, but we must find a way, a means to stop this massacre. the european union is not only a great partner in the fight against terrorism, but also a partner in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the council's silence on economic matters is not acceptable. in december, from bratislava to brussels, the council will undertake to discuss, to discuss the extension of the european investment plan, which i undertake to discuss. we want a commitment to approve the extension and strengthening of the european investment plan. it's not even about relocation. i am not convinced by this double standard on the right, they accuse the walloons of stopping ceta and say nothing to orbán, who insists on no to relocations. the position of the walloons is one of demanding clarifications and i join the voices calling for clarifications to be made in these hours which can lead to the most progressive trade agreement we have been able to sign. there is no negative ideological position on ceta on the part of the walloons, there is a positive and constructive demand for clarification, work is being done in this direction, president juncker and president schulz have worked on it and it is right to continue to work constantly to arrive at a positive solution. on immigration, i would add that we must put an end to the 'save yourself' approach, this border issue, the border controls between austria and slovenia, does not help europe to find a common response to this challenge. and, in conclusion, this parliament must not be a parliament of fighting, it must raise its voice, but not among us on the subject of goat's wool, it must raise its voice to say 'stop aleppo, the massacre of aleppo', it must raise its voice to have fair and supportive trade, it must raise its voice to stop industrial crises, it must raise its voice to have a more expansive economic policy, it must raise its voice to give a response to young people and women, it must raise its voice to give dignity to european institutions and the decision-making process, it must raise its voice to give a smile to those children who hope for a better future! this is the parliament we must have and build!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker told us today that dublin must be reformed if we are to have a truly european and solidarity-based system. well, i agree with him completely. it is a pity that the dublin reform proposal which the commission has put forward restricts solidarity and the fair sharing of responsibilities between member states to exceptional cases only, and it is a pity that the council is beginning to talk about the concept of flexible solidarity, so i think we must prepare for the worst. we have also spoken about the african countries and greater cooperation with them, but here too we are faced with problems of coherence, because if they are not seen, they are reviewing those trade policies which, instead of giving development to those lands, cause migration flows, and there too we are faced with a great dilemma. but it is not only the problems of africa that are threatened by the nature of certain agreements. the pressure from european citizens is growing against trade agreements such as ceta and ttip, which put the profits and special interests of big business and multinationals ahead of the interests and protection of the fundamental rights of citizens and states. we must therefore oppose such agreements vigorously.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union did not defend its internal borders, hungary did, by putting up a wall, and spain defends them in ceuta and melilla with a four-metre net. the citizens of gorino, a small village, a small italian village, successfully resisted, and their heroism was honored, by repelling the invasion. like many, many citizens in france, where illegal immigrants are distributed by the go-go, they would like to oppose this. and then the promise in the council document to relocate 160,000 migrants, but if 4,000 arrive in sicily alone every day, who can think, and if no other country, because there is only italy which is obliged to take them all in. how can you think of 160,000 being relocated! it is a shame that the council has echoed these words. and then as regards the agreements with africa, it is said that the high commissioner will give an answer in december, but in the meantime the invasion is taking place. no to the invasion!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us concentrate on the numbers, and then i shall speak to you mainly about numbers: this year, 153,450 people have arrived in italy, including 20,000 children. a record year is looming, as well as a record year for deaths, which have tripled. to understand, i say to my french friends, the italians face a calais every week and when the weather is fine we face a calais every other day and we are proud to do so. (the president declared the chamber silent) the exceptional increase i have mentioned, mr commissioner, mr vice-president, is enough to make you look at the italian budget with the understanding you deserve. saving costs, welcoming costs, integrating costs, children costs. what 's the matter ? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the preparation of the budget. the choice is relentless: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. and then do not leave italy alone, because a new anti-european demagogy of populism and social tensions is being born. and then i ask you, mr president timmermans, if italy, which is doing its part and is praised, is the target of the budget, what measures and sanctions will you take against countries which refuse to take in refugees?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, finally, i say finally, in this house today, i heard about the central mediterranean, the africa-italy route, where the situation has not improved, but has actually worsened, because we have a record year for landings this year, not only having surpassed last year, but also the record of 2014, and landings have only increased in italy. so, if the council finally recognises that we need a concrete commitment, with concrete measures to come quickly to combat illegal immigration and to stabilise that area of the mediterranean, we will avoid many unnecessary deaths, many unnecessary deaths, that is an impressive number, and we will restore security to our citizens. but you see that we will also have a benefit on the economic framework, because if there is no situation of stability, investors will not come, they will not come to invest in europe, they will choose other areas of the world. and more and more they will choose other areas of the world, while we need to grow again, we need to create new jobs, to give a future to our young people. and that is why we, as the italian delegation, have always said, for example, that we are against giving china the status of a market economy, because it is not a market economy. that's why i say with strength and passion: we must not abandon the objective of 20% of gross domestic product coming from manufacturing by 2020, we must defend the real economy, because without industry, without small and medium-sized enterprises, we cannot get out of the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president pittella, in describing the outcome of the european council, recently referred to the words of romano prodi, president of the european commission: "to move forward, you have to ride". i would like to conclude by recalling the words of another great italian, the father of european socialism, pietro nenni, who said in one of his last speeches: 'we must either renew or perish.' i believe that this is the crossroads facing our europe today. and enough of the timid and routine european councils! our continent faces epochal emergencies from refugees begging for our welcome. it is therefore right to acknowledge the efforts, including financial ones, made by states such as italy at the forefront of immigration, but we also expect concrete commitments on the distribution between member states and on africa, with partnership agreements for migrants from countries of transit and origin. but we must also respond to the problems of employment, social security and the possibility for our citizens to lead a decent life, and this calls for the extension of the european investment plan, but also for economic policies that are more attentive to the fight against unemployment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, another european council meeting on immigration. the commitments made cannot remain on paper, there is no more time, words must be followed by deeds. the way forward is clear to all but the populists: the european union must have a new european immigration policy, a comprehensive policy based on the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between all the member states. we must turn words into deeds now. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the relocation of asylum seekers from italy and greece to all member states, in accordance with the commitments it has made. concrete actions, implementing the european migration compact without criminalizing immigration for security reasons, but aiming to address the root causes of immigration. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european investment plan for the countries of origin and third countries of origin of migration flows in order to promote development. no more postponements!
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, just a few reflections after the debate in the plenary. first of all, the migration issue: i share the concerns of all those who have raised their worries about what is happening in the southern mediterranean. it is a tragedy that so many people are still drowning in spite of the tremendous efforts of the italian authorities to save as many people as possible. we need to have a comprehensive approach about this. let me be very clear: better border protection is part of the answer, but it is not a panacea for the migration crisis. if we believe we can hide behind border and fences and rid ourselves of collective solidarity in this issue, we are being delusional. delusional! just imagine that in the next generation or two, the population of africa will be anywhere between three and six billion people. how do you think the mediterranean will ever be wide enough, or fences ever high enough to stop these people from coming to europe if we do not have a policy that will offer them perspective in their own nations and their own continents, in their own cities and villages. so do not believe in the delusion of borders as the only solution to this problem and do not believe in the illusion that you can rid yourself of collective european solidarity in tackling this huge crisis. if you think you can rid yourself of the solidarity, others will rid themselves also of solidarity and that will be the end of the european union. so i believe strongly in a collective approach and a comprehensive approach that addresses all the issues linked to the migration crisis. on ceta let me just say one thing: if you believe, at the beginning of what i would call the 4th industrial revolution, that you can protect yourselves from not entering into agreements with parts of the world where they share our values, you are delusional. look at what is happening in the world’s economy, look how fast the world’s economy is changing. we need to have comprehensive agreements with those parts of the world which share our values, which want social protection like we do, which want environmental protection like we do. it is only together that we will face the forces of globalisation in a way that will guarantee the rights our citizens demand and i really call upon the walloon parliament to study carefully. mr lambert said that it is the only parliament that has actually read the treaty – well, i will leave that to his own judgment. i fear i do not agree with that assessment. but, if they read the explanations and the assurances that we have given, the clear indications on social protection, on environmental protection, on assurances that disputes will be dealt with by judges in a way that is in accordance with our legal criteria; if they have studied this perhaps they can come to a conclusion of this matter. it is clear to me – let me end on this point – that it is not an isolated matter that people worry about trade agreements. it is not an isolated matter that people sometimes think that building fences is an answer to our problem. it is an element in a world that is changing so fast that people fear that they have lost control of their destinies. only by offering answers at a european level, so citizens feel that we can help them in a system in regaining control of our collective destiny, will we find solutions for global problems.
president of the european council. – mr president, thank you for what has been a good and lively debate. i have just a few comments. first, on ceta: many in this house have suggested that we should simply ignore the views of national parliaments on trade agreements and that the debate in belgium and wallonia’s resistance do not result from the belief that the competences of eu institutions regarding trade policy are too limited. today people would prefer the state and national parliaments to have a bigger influence on the course of things – not smaller. is it any easier to govern europe thanks to this? no, of course it isn’t, but no one will change the fact that the eu is still the union of the states and not the institutions. when it comes to russia, i have just one remark. the fears and concerns, for example on private arbitration, must be addressed, and they are being addressed and explained only now. i trust that after today’s talks in belgium, the climate around ceta and maybe also around the next free trade agreements will change for the better. when it comes to russia, i would like to say two things. first, we must keep unity in our relations with russia. the building of eu unity is a difficult, not to say unaesthetic, process, but there is no alternative. if we want to be effective vis—à-vis russia, we must stay united as the eu. (applause) second, at the european council i backed those who were pushing for a stronger position on russia’s role in syria. the letter written by verhofstadt, harms and weber was a real support for me. thank you for your initiative. i want to say to those in this room who were the harshest critics of the european council for not taking a sufficiently univocal position that they can help by doing the work both in their political families and in member states. when it comes to migration, i have just one remark. i am absolutely aware that the situation in greece remains critical. it is clear that it is too early to talk about success, but please just imagine what the situation on the greek islands would look like if not for the decrease in the number of irregular migrants by 98% – not 9%, not 8%, but 98% – which we managed to achieve. this is the beginning of the process but this is the only way, also for the central mediterranean route. this is why i am also starting to discuss the positive aspects of our activity. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two questions. i would like the house to be informed that the two co-mayors of diyarbakir were arrested by the turkish authorities this evening. turkey, we know that we are a partner of the european union, i believe that we cannot remain silent in the face of what the erdogan government continues to do to the detriment of the kurdish people. question number two: i wanted to ask you on what authority you have been lobbying the walloon authorities to oppose the signing of ceta.
in writing. the immigration issue was raised again at the last european council. the heads of state or government discussed the need to define a comprehensive european approach to immigration. i would like to stress that the council and commission have taken very positive steps towards the establishment of a european border and coast guard. parliament and the member states have done their part to ensure that the constituent regulation enters into force. we now expect the full capacity of this service to be operational and tangible results by the end of the year. the mandate given to the high representative to present at the next meeting in december the progress made with the five largest countries selected and the first results achieved in terms of arrivals and returns is certainly a notable achievement of the council. these are two good decisions to finally give substance to our european action.
in writing. the heads of state or government who met on 20 and 21 october faced a particularly complex agenda which, as is too often the case, was not matched by concrete decisions. i am referring in particular to the migration chapter, where the failure to apply the principle of solidarity and responsibility between states means that the burden of the emergency is still left on the shoulders of a few. the agenda also included trade policy, and in particular the conclusion of the eu-canada agreement. the vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken at the next voting time. we are in fact in a historical context where the failures of globalisation's unregulated nature have created a deep aversion and fear of free trade agreements. if, on the one hand, we must monitor the negotiations with ever greater care and transparency, so that the necessary protections for citizens, workers and consumers are ensured; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. national selfishness is today threatening to bring about the slow failure of the european project, but we have a duty to find the means to revive it.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
we have three technical amendments proposed by mr geier, one technical proposal by mr tarand, who also proposed a split vote; but you, mr tarand, are an expert, and you know very well that there are deadlines for this type of procedure, and in this case you had to submit this request by noon on monday. and so of course this proposal cannot be accepted. i shall, however, put to the vote the technical amendments which have been tabled by our rapporteurs. (parliament adopted the proposed amendments) - before the vote on amendment no 341:
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for the financial year 2017. i take note of the differences in the positions of our two institutions concerning the draft budget for 2017 presented by the commission. consequently, in my capacity of president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee as required in article 314(4)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
we are of course taking note of your statements.
that concludes the voting.
in writing. ‒ whereas little has been done to reduce the costs of the european institutions; that the eu is increasingly demanding sacrifices from states, despite the severe economic crisis; that our local administrators are struggling to provide good services to citizens given the very limited resources at their disposal; i do not agree with the content of the draft general budget for the financial year 2017.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the draft budget for 2017. on all the amendments proposed, i would point out that we voted in favour of cutting the expenditure on communication on the euro, increasing the funds for the early detection and eradication of plant pests and supporting the victims of natural disasters in italy.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the budget was long and complex. i voted in favour of the draft, but it was not easy to find my way through all the amendments. although there is no more political act than this, the document represents the triumph of technicalities and eurocracy: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected. i am proud, however, to see that the eu redistributes 95% of what it receives to the states, and that in any case the national contribution is about 1% of gdp whereas taxation is between 45% and 55%. my challenge is always the same: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be a part of the process of european integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 and i believe that it should be set in a broader context, which ensures a proper balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. the 2017 budget must meet the needs of the migration crises and it is necessary to strengthen the financing of projects in the field of research, infrastructure, security, as well as projects to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets for their valuable work in summarising the different priorities expressed by the parliamentary committees for the financial year 2017. i would like to stress one political point in particular which i feel i must emphasize: the vote on the budget this year also coincides with the reopening of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework until 2020. the position adopted by the committee on budgets includes some points (for example, greater use of the financial instruments of flexibility) which will be a priority for parliament in the interinstitutional debate in the coming months, and i therefore strongly support the position expressed today by the house.
in writing. ‒ parliament sets the overall level of appropriations for 2017 at eur 162.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 138.0 billion in payment appropriations. the report focuses on the need for the 2017 budget to meet the need related to the migration challenge and the slow growth of the economy. in this connection, i would first of all like to stress that the funding for the reception of asylum seekers must be increased in order to support, in particular, the first countries of entry. secondly, i would like to stress that the eu budget for 2017 should focus on infrastructure projects for the less developed regions and the fight against youth unemployment. i fully agree with the reference in the report to the fact that the provisions on budgetary flexibility exist to enable member states to adopt quick and effective responses to the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. the report takes into account the recovery of funds for youth employment (eur 1.5 billion) under horizon 2020, and thus for our companies, universities and research, and public bodies. individual funds for culture (10.8 million for cultural programmes and 13 million for creative erasmus projects); the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have adopted the euro by a factor of two, i.e. by increasing the number of member states that have adopted the euro by a factor of three. we have done the best we could with what we had and the risk with the cuts proposed by the council is that we will be running the day-to-day, that we will have no perspective or vision.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the draft budget of the european union for the year 2017. although the report takes account of the strengthening of heading iii, which is under great pressure from migration, it contains many rather questionable aspects. firstly, it is almost impossible for the member states to cope with further budget cuts, especially in the context of the budgetary constraints imposed by the european union itself. secondly, expenditure items have been added, such as the fund for the agreement with turkey, which are not a priority need for the union. in addition, the section devoted to expenditure on european bureaucracy and administration continues to increase. i believe that the resources available should be concentrated on priority lines and that this should be done first and foremost by the european union. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. this year the eu is faced with a number of serious emergencies, unforeseen at the time of the mff 2014-2020, which now require a broader effort to resolve. more financial resources should therefore be allocated to address those policy challenges and enable the union to act effectively in the new global context. a balance needs to be struck first between long-term priorities and new challenges involving issues such as the union's internal and external security, the management of migration and the need to strengthen investment to foster growth and jobs. these evaluations should be made in the light of the parallel mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. the text adopted today respects this, adding €1.5 billion in appropriations for the youth employment initiative and providing for the cancellation of all cuts made by the council in the area of development policy and humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the own-initiative report accompanying the 2017 budget of the european institutions. i think that, apart from a few acceptable measures such as those for the cap, there are still many completely unacceptable steps, for example the large amounts of funding for turkey. i am firmly convinced that this measure is far from meeting the real and concrete needs of our citizens. for all these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 mainly because it points out the need to ensure the achievements of the eu 2020 targets and reprimands the commission for its recent initiatives aimed at suspending the esi funds. on the contrary, i believe that the union shall deploy more financial resources in order to deliver political answers to the challenges we face nowadays, such as migration and the slow economic growth. in particular, i think additional funding is needed in order to address the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the european union represents about 1% of the eu's gross national income and is therefore complementary to national budgets. the draft budget for 2017 must take into account the expressed wish of the people of great britain to leave the european union. the draft budget reflects and supports the political priorities set by commission president juncker and seeks to provide a european response to the challenges of managing migration, combating terrorism and organised crime, protecting the union's external borders and working with the eu's neighbouring regions. one of the budget's main priorities is employment, growth and investment, as the growth forecasts remain modest, even as the european economy continues to recover. the committee on fisheries calls on the committee on budgets to take account of the fact that the emff, compared with other funds, has limited resources and that the network of agreements with third countries must be extended. in addition, funding for the fisheries sector must not be reduced, as this sector has an important economic, social and environmental dimension in the blue economy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. i believe that many of the policy priorities, such as effectively managing the migration and refugee crisis, promoting competitiveness through job creation and pursuing the sustainable development goals, are supported by adequate financial resources. in particular, in the 2017 budget, parliament catalysed its focus on new and serious challenges not foreseen at the time of the preparation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the 2017 budget is therefore to be seen in the wider context of the mid-term review of the mff and, as the report appropriately shows, is in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the eu, having ratified the cop21 agreement, will devote a large part of its financial resources to the fulfilment of its international commitments. the budget for 2017 is expected to allocate 19,2% of the total expenditure to this purpose.
in writing. ‒ this is the resolution on the approval of the eu budget for the year 2017. we have welcomed some of the political will and priorities, such as the strengthening of heading iii, which is under heavy pressure due to migration; the european parliament's vision, however, lacks the necessary realism, as it is difficult, if not impossible, to ask the member states for additional budgetary efforts, when it is the eu itself that is responsible for much of the budgetary constraints that the states are subject to at national level. the problem of the gap between commitments and payments, between empty promises and practical achievements, persists: this year the situation has been made worse by two major new expenditure items (the efsi guarantee and funds for the agreement with turkey), which are draining away large resources that could be better used. in the light of the above, i voted against, together with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ provision which is again far from meeting the real needs of citizens. in the context of the own-initiative report accompanying the budget of the european institutions for 2017, some interventions in support of agriculture are acceptable but the large funding in support of the eu-turkey partnership is completely incomprehensible. i therefore confirm my negative vote.
in writing. ‒ sound and effective budgetary discipline can only be achieved through extensive and timely planning: i would like to make my vote in favour clear. moreover, at a time of unfavourable macroeconomic conditions, it is unthinkable to act otherwise if one wishes to strike a balance between long-term priorities and unforeseeable challenges to be addressed. the analysis offered by the project is a rich source of reflection and criticism, as well as an opportunity to address highly heterogeneous issues. among those which have most caught my attention is the amendment to cut funding to bullfighting breeders. despite the opposition expressed by my group on this matter, i have chosen to vote in good conscience and, thinking of the world in which i want my children and future generations to grow up, i hope that we shall no longer have to witness real and genuine riots which have little to do with the concept of luxury. the result of the vote fortunately reflected my thinking and therefore the funds for breeding fighting bulls were cut from the 130 million annual funds for agriculture and breeding for spain. i hope that soon it will be possible to ban the same race: it's not art or culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it sets the overall level of appropriations for 2017 at eur 162.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 138 billion in payment appropriations. the expenditure headings in the text, and specifically those devoted to competitiveness for growth and employment, social and territorial economic cohesion, sustainable growth, security, administration and the reserve for emergency aid, are in line with european policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this measure because it does not address budgetary inefficiencies and increases the distance between citizens and the eu institutions. in particular, the lack of clear rules on funding to turkey with regard to migrants and the maintenance of the status quo with regard to the three seats of parliament (brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg) demonstrate the inadequacy of this eu to address the real priorities that need to be addressed: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the eu budget: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union and turkey with the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the eu's general budget for 2017, because the eu needs an adequate budget to meet the important challenges it faces, and above all because of the changed conditions compared to 2014 when the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework was negotiated. i supported the ep's call for more funds for young people looking for quality employment, to stimulate economic growth, to help third countries deal with the emergency of the migration crisis, the crisis in the agricultural and dairy sectors following the sanctions against russia and the end of the quota system respectively. however, the major problem remains the adaptation of the multiannual financial framework, and i therefore support the ec proposal in this respect, as it introduces greater flexibility and the creation of a reserve in the event of a crisis. the eu needs a budget that is more ambitious and more appropriate to the challenges facing the eu. now is the time for conciliation to reach a final agreement with the council. the two budgetary authorities will have less than a month to achieve this, as the eu budget for 2017 will have to be finally approved in december.
in writing. the eu general budget for the year 2017 should be seen in the wider context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and should highlight the need to ensure a fair balance between ordinary expenditure and the priorities needed to meet new challenges, which were not foreseeable at the time of the budget's drawing up. in 2017, we will continue to focus on growth and development, and therefore job creation, by investing in the strategic objectives of horizon 2020, including research, development and innovation. we will also focus on the competitiveness of our business sector, economic, social and territorial cohesion, support for agriculture, protection of the environment and health, and the safety of our citizens. increases were also seen for migration crisis management policies. all the lines relating to the agencies which are at the forefront of the migration management have been strengthened. our position, which was adopted today, removes all the cuts made by the council and will be the subject of negotiations in the forthcoming negotiations to reach agreement with the member states on the common position.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing many challenges today. given the difficulties, it is becoming more important to maintain continuous and substantial investment in the fields of education, vocational training and youth. i am therefore very pleased with the text which parliament has adopted today, and of course also with the amendments which i have proposed and which the committee on culture and education has endorsed, increasing the funds for erasmus+, creative europe and a europe for citizens. funding essential to support european policies on employment, youth, culture and creativity, social inclusion and democratic participation. if we are to pursue a revival of the true european spirit, particularly among young people, we must choose policies that are appropriate for all citizens in all member states. the budget is an integral part of eu policies: if we are to regain the confidence of our citizens, europe must become europe again, not be locked into petty national egos. this applies to common policies, national contributions to the eu budget and the implementation of programmes.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the 2017 budget fully reflects the political priorities approved by the majority and is consistent with the objectives that the european institutions intend to pursue. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budget for the year 2017, as we have repeatedly stressed in our discussions, will have to be linked to the revision of the multiannual financial framework. it is a condition which parliament does not want to give up simply because the eu's challenges are continuing to increase but it is being forced to tackle them with the inadequate funding at present. the migration flows, youth employment and the development of the neighbouring countries are issues which must be tackled with the highest priority, a priority which must be translated into substantial appropriations because these problems can only be solved at european level. the budget we have adopted today is in that direction and we hope that the council will also be able to put its words into practice by making sufficient resources available. as we repeat every year, cutting the european budget does not mean cutting red tape, which could certainly be saved, but it means cutting investment. real investments that benefit businesses, local authorities, universities, students, farmers and ngos. i therefore naturally voted in favour of the budget and this resolution and i hope that the conciliation will confirm these right choices in favour of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the approval of the eu budget for the year 2017 because, although some political will and priorities such as the strengthening of funds for the migration emergency are sustainable, a distorted use of european funds remains. despite the reduction in the amount of payments compared to 2016, member states are clearly struggling to finance the european budget and absorb funds, as poor governance and lack of public investment are holding back the economy. in addition, two new major expenditure items (the efsi guarantee and the funds for the agreement with turkey) are draining substantial resources that could be better used. finally, the level of expenditure on the administrative and bureaucratic operation of the european machine continues to increase. the 5 star movement had, however, tried to improve the text by means of several amendments, including one - unfortunately rejected - on the ten-t programme, which called for the appropriations not to be used to finance projects without real added value, such as the new turin-lyon high-speed line.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the resolution on the eu budget for 2017. the commission's july proposal set commitments at 157.7 billion and payments at 134.9 billion. in its september reading, the council proposed several reductions, bringing the final figure to 156.4 billion in commitments and 133.8 billion in payments. the committee on budgets of parliament rejected the council's cuts in their entirety and boosted them, especially on the commitment side, proposing a record figure of 161.8 billion and bringing the level of payments to 136.8 billion. i have appreciated some of the political will and priorities, such as the strengthening of heading iii, which is under severe pressure because of the phenomena of migration, but parliament's vision lacks the necessary realism, since it is difficult, if not impossible, to ask the states for additional budgetary efforts. the problem of the gap between commitments and payments persists: the situation has been made worse this year by two major new expenditure items which have drained away vast resources that could be better used. as regards the other sections, the level of expenditure on the functioning of the european administrative and bureaucratic machinery is continuing to increase endlessly, which is totally unacceptable.
in writing. as every year, we are at the time of the approval of the eu's estimated budget for the coming year and as every year i see a further increase in the expenditure for the operation of the administrative and bureaucratic machinery. i am not going to vote for the report, but i am going to vote against it. however, i am pleased that the house has approved the amendment, tabled with my colleagues from the m5s, to end the funding of over 100 million a year to breeding farms for bullfighting. these funds are taken from the cap, the common agricultural policy, and are thus subtracted from all other agricultural activities. since we have been sitting in the european parliament, the five star movement has been the only italian political group to vote unanimously against taking money from farmers, encouraging a barbaric and senseless practice such as bullfighting. we promised to fight these shows and we are fighting. we have been calling loudly for states and the executive to change course and listen to the citizens and the only european body they have elected, the eu parliament: stop funding the bullfights!
in writing. ‒ this report, which deals with the post-election review of the mff (multiannual financial framework) 2014-2020, calls first for more flexibility and also for substantial additional resources to meet the union's new challenges and issues. while i agree with the need for greater flexibility and the search for new funds, i do not think that raising the ceilings is the right way to achieve these objectives, but rather that it is better to try to find new resources from other existing budget lines, and to try to review future priorities. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the many challenges facing the european union, migration and the economic crisis in particular, make the chronic insufficiency of resources available under the current multiannual financial framework increasingly evident. in this context, its revision can provide a unique opportunity to address the budgetary difficulties that are undermining the eu's overall credibility. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i support, strongly calls on the council to ensure a credible, coherent and sustainable budget for the remaining years of the current programming period. the budget must be made more flexible and able to respond promptly to the challenges of our time: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the new resources must also be linked to an evaluation of the post-2020 mff because the way to regain citizens' trust in the european project also involves the establishment of a more transparent, effective and accessible budget.
in writing. ‒ on 6 july, the european parliament adopted a report on the preparation of the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the resolution we have voted on today, tabled by the committee on budgets, takes note of this proposal and reaffirms the priorities of the european parliament, in line with the resolution of july. the proposal does not differ much from the report adopted before the summer: the eu is facing a new challenge, and this requires more flexibility and additional resources. i have very strong reservations on this last point in particular, as i do not see how the member states, in the present crisis situation, can undertake new economic efforts, especially in the light of the budgetary constraints imposed by brussels and the disastrous results of its policies. i think it would make more sense to move towards a review of existing priorities, making real cuts in the eu's unnecessary expenditure and costs and start doing the best for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on the mid-term revision of the mutual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 because it underlines our concern with regard to the insufficient resources that are available at the moment. we are facing new challenges today such as the refugee crisis and i believe the revision of the mff shall have the aim of ensuring a fair balance between the long-term priorities and the new emerging challenges. in this regard, i welcome the proposal of the establishment of an eu crisis reserve by the commission as instrument to tackle rapidly the crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution today because i share its recommendations to the european council with a view to the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. parliament called for budgetary appropriations to be increased so that the eu could have a budget commensurate with the political commitments and strategic objectives it intends to pursue. the problems of migration, internal security, the crisis in the agricultural sector and the persistently high unemployment rate, especially among young people, require the adoption of appropriate measures and additional funds which, unfortunately, were not provided for in the first years of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) due to the limited resources available. the mid-term review of the mff should also be the start of a consensus-building process for the post-2020 mff. in this context, the report recommends strong commitments, including the creation of new own resources capable of significantly reducing the share of gni-based contributions to the eu budget, the gradual elimination of all forms of correction, and aligning the duration of the mff with the political cycles of the institutions.
in writing. ‒ on 6 july, the european parliament adopted a report on the preparation of the post-election review of the mff (multiannual financial framework) 2014-2020. this resolution is on the commission proposal and was strongly sought by the rapporteurs to strengthen parliament's position in the negotiations with the council. the commission has therefore reiterated its previous position: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. while we agree with the first point, it is clear that the states are not willing or able to undertake new economic efforts. it would therefore be more sensible to review the priorities, including, where appropriate, identifying budget lines on which to act to raise the necessary resources. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i share the proposal for revision because of the continuing concern about the insufficiency of the resources available under the current multiannual financial framework (mff) in the face of the multiple crises and emergencies that have emerged in recent years. substantial amounts of additional funds are needed for the eu budget and a mid-term review is a crucial link for the optimal weighting on the post-2020 side. among the measures presented, the one that has generated the most confidence in me is the commission's proposal to create an eu crisis reserve as a means of rapid reaction to events with serious humanitarian or security implications. in fact, in the light of what has recently happened in central italy following the earthquakes of september and october, it is a duty to provide assistance and aid to those who suddenly find themselves having lost everything. therefore, i call on the commission to implement these measures as soon as possible, to integrate them into the 2017 eu budget without delay and to enter into substantive negotiations with the council on the mid-term review of the mff in the context of the 2017 budgetary conciliation procedure. in addition to the above, i would ask the commission to provide clarification on the financial implications of the uk's withdrawal from the eu, without prejudice to future negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because the text presented on the one hand positively incorporates some of the amendments which parliament had previously proposed, in particular on the subject of flexibility. some corrective needs and specific needs remain, such as that relating to the mobility of young people, which is essential to strengthening european awareness and identity. the creation of an eu reserve as a rapid response instrument to crises and events with serious humanitarian or security implications is welcome.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution because it would make more sense to review existing priorities, identify costs to be cut and avoid raising overall spending ceilings.
in writing. ‒ it is urgent to equip europe with the adequate resources to respond to the many open political emergencies. i therefore share the report of the committee on budgets which strongly underlines the concern about the insufficiency of the resources available under the current multiannual financial framework, drawing attention to the number of new crises and priorities that have emerged in recent years, in particular the migration and refugee crisis, internal security issues, the persistence of a high unemployment rate, especially among young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 because i believe that, after having approved the resolution of 6 july on the review of the functioning of the mff, an adequate response to the challenges we face requires a volume of additional funds from the eu budget. this is a unique opportunity for the eu to address the challenges that are undermining the eu's credibility and the achievement of its objectives. the eu needs a realistic and credible budget and the review can be the way to strike a balance between achieving the eu's long-term political priorities and responding to current challenges, which require an immediate response, which, however, cannot be at the expense of existing policies and programmes. for these reasons i have strongly supported the creation of a permanent reserve within the european budget; the commission has also incorporated the need for a flexible revision to respond promptly to challenges such as the migration crisis, terrorism and internal security.
in writing. ‒ the reality is much, much faster than the imagination, let alone the european budgetary review procedures. we have been talking for years about immigration, the costs of reception, border control and we are now discussing a commission proposal on the revision of the multiannual financial framework which does not add one euro to what has already been agreed, but makes the kindly concession of reprogramming, that is to say, moving and earmarking resources for emergency migration. it almost sounds like a joke. efforts to "simplify" are even more surreal. the commission, for the sake of simplicity, merges the revision of the basic acts of the major european policies, cohesion and agriculture, into a single regulation, omnibus, dangerously limiting the scope for action of the european parliament. some might think that even in europe, as in the cat's meow, "everything has to change, so that everything stays the same". but i am sure that will not be the case, because europe cannot afford to remain the same, and this parliament will at least have to fight for something to change.
in writing. the proposal aims to ensure greater flexibility in the mff and annual budgets and to better reflect the new eu priorities that emerged as a result of crises and challenges that could not be foreseen when the 2014-2020 weekly budget was decided. the mid-term review of the mff was a clause strongly wanted by parliament at the time of the negotiations, precisely to allow the european budget to be aligned with future needs. we are therefore ready to enter into talks with the council in order to reach agreement on a budget which is really efficient, capable of responding promptly to the crises of migration and refugees, terrorism and internal security, the crisis in agriculture and capable of countering, with the help of the member states, the increase in the rate of unemployment, especially among young people.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, as i did, parliament is taking a clear position on the future financing of the eu budget. in summary, this resolution highlights many of the key figures and themes which have characterised the implementation of the mff so far: critical situations and delays in the implementation of programmes; the need to revise upwards the ceilings for commitment and payment appropriations; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2007-13 is based on the principle of the european union's own resources. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. we use the mff to show that our strategic priority is a europe that is more cohesive at home, stronger and more globally active, and really closer to its citizens. but from a dry debate such as that on the financial perspective, it is possible, through the choices made, to recover a renewed europeanism which puts the 500 million citizens we represent here at the centre of the action.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the mid-term review of the mff, as i regard the proposed amendments to the mff package as positive. these amendments are consistent with the objectives set by the institutions, and i therefore voted in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework is a step in the right direction as regards flexibility, but it fails to address the real problem of the matter, namely the amount of appropriations for the headings most under pressure because of the huge political challenges facing europe. migration flows, youth employment and the development of the neighbouring countries are issues which must be tackled with the highest priority and the appropriations we have in the mff today are totally inadequate because they are calibrated to a situation which is totally different from that of five years ago. this review will be one of the few opportunities to give new life and credibility to this eu which should look more at the lives of its citizens and not just at the budgets of its member states. if we want a europe which is not only about markets and the economy, but above all about rights and solidarity, we must demonstrate this by a budget that is up to the task, but at the same time by respect for the treaties by all the member states: it is a question of two elements that either go hand in hand or both are missing.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because, although more flexibility was proposed, substantial additional resources were also envisaged: it is clear that the states are unwilling and unable to commit themselves to new economic efforts (even in the light of all the budgetary constraints imposed by europe). it would be more sensible to review priorities and identify budget lines where action could be taken to provide the necessary resources without increasing the overall ceilings. the 5 star movement had, however, tried to improve the text by means of several amendments, including one - unfortunately rejected - on the ten-t programme which called for the appropriations not to be used to finance projects without real added value, such as the new turin-lyon high-speed line.
in writing. ‒ on 6 july, parliament approved a report on the preparation of the post-election review of the mff (multiannual financial framework) 2014-2020: this text was a prelude to the commission proposal, which is now finally on the table. the resolution we have voted on today, tabled by the committee on budgets, takes note of this proposal and seeks to reiterate parliament's priorities. the two co-rapporteurs have stressed the need to produce this new document which, in their view, should serve to strengthen parliament's position in the negotiations with the council. the proposal does not depart much from what was said in the summer, namely that greater flexibility is required (which i fully support) and that substantial additional resources are required to meet new challenges and problems: i have reservations about this, because it is clear that the states are not willing or able to undertake new economic efforts, even in the light of all the budgetary constraints imposed by brussels. i think it would be more sensible to review the priorities, and if necessary to identify budget lines where we can intervene to find the necessary resources, but certainly not to increase the overall ceilings.
in writing. ‒ on 11 may 2016, estonia submitted an application for a financial contribution (eur 1,1 million) from the egf following redundant placements by three petrochemical companies. while i sympathize with the situation of the workers affected by these measures, i cannot support supporting, even indirectly, an energy sector - such as the petrochemical sector - which is at odds with the objectives of environmental and energy sustainability, which have always been central to the policy of the five star movement. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the major changes in recent years have affected the chemical manufacturing sector and the coke and petroleum refining industries. my vote in favour of the negrescu report is based on my agreement with the need to mobilise the igf to provide assistance to the 800 workers laid off by eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as in estonia, particularly in ida-virumaa county. this measure will provide a coordinated package of instruments comprising training and mobility allowances as well as start-up grants and training, retraining and vocational training programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of eur 1 131 358 from the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for 800 redundant workers in the oil refining and chemical manufacturing sectors in estonia. the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument to support workers in this time of crisis. but the egf alone is not enough to put back to work all those citizens who have lost their jobs because of the union's insane suicidal policies. urgent action is needed to promote employment in europe, and it is time for the eu to take the side of the european workers.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for sustaining training programmes in estonia in order to help its workers. moreover, i believe these funds may be a valuable tool for the development of those small economies which suffer from competition against big countries such as china.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. for the activation procedure, the commission, in the event of a positive assessment of an application, shall submit to the budgetary authority a proposal to mobilise the fund together with a corresponding transfer request. in the event of disagreement, a trilogue procedure is used. in september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for estonia to facilitate the reintegration into employment of redundant workers in three companies, concluding that the application qualified for a financial contribution. the personalised services to be offered to workers range from support for formal studies, training and work experience to study and mobility allowances. estonia shall ensure that the measures provided for in this decision are implemented in accordance with the principles laid down in the relevant union legislation. the estonian authorities have provided all the necessary guarantees. therefore, parliament agrees with the commission that estonia is entitled to a financial contribution as the conditions of the egf regulation are met.
in writing. ‒ on 11 may 2016, estonia submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in three enterprises in the coking and refining of petroleum products and the production of chemical products. the increase in global competition, particularly from the east, has led to an increase in the price of natural gas and a decrease in the price of mineral fertilisers. in parallel, there has been a fall in the price of oil and these changes have led to a crisis for many industries in the sector. although helping workers in difficulty has always been one of the movement's priorities, in this case there was a risk that by voting in favour, a message of support would be given to energy production sectors that would instead be converted. i therefore opted for abstention.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision to grant estonia access to the european globalisation adjustment fund following its application on 11 may in relation to the redundancies of eesti erga as, netroferts as and viru keemia group as. the application was submitted in a regional format, thus making it easier to solve problems that are present simultaneously on the same labour market, and concerns 800 redundant workers. the requested contribution is eur 1 131 358, i.e. 60% of the total costs incurred or to be incurred for personalised services, support for formal studies, payment of training costs and labour market experience. we are looking at yet another stalemate in the face of globalisation, as the eu continues to demonstrate a systemic failure to prevent a lack of competitiveness. in fact, eesti erga as, nitroferts as and viru keemia group were forced to close a number of plants or abandon production, resulting in the collective termination of employment contracts, because europe lost its lead in global chemical sales to china, which increased its share from 9% to 35%.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. in the light of these considerations and because of the admissibility of estonia's application, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund for redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on aid to redundant workers in the oil refining and chemical manufacturing sectors.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide support for workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in world trade. in the present case, the application concerns estonia's request for a financial contribution following the redundant placements in the coke and petroleum refining and chemical manufacturing sectors. this is a support of eur 1 131 358 to help 800 redundant workers. this is a concrete measure to help european workers who need help and retraining, and i therefore express my support.
in writing. ‒ i thought it my duty to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. the effects of globalisation can, under certain circumstances, be negative. the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the union therefore undertakes to alleviate any such effects by immediate and effective financial support. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 11 may, estonia submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of three companies in the coking and petroleum refining and chemical manufacturing sectors. the total number of beneficiaries of the measures is expected to be 800 out of a total of 1 550 units, with an egf contribution of approximately eur 1.1 million. the commission notes that the estonian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. i am always in favour of the egf applications, but in this case, given the nature of the companies involved and their particular activities, i thought it more appropriate to abstain, because while i do not want to penalise the workers, i do not want to send a message of support, even if indirectly, to these energy production sectors, which do not reflect my priorities in this area.
in writing. ‒ the great digital revolution that is taking place before our eyes brings with it numerous opportunities but also many unknowns, especially for those people who, being in a disability situation, risk being more vulnerable to exclusion phenomena due to a failure to adapt new technologies to their needs. already today 80 million european citizens have a disability and as the population ages this figure is set to increase to 120 million by 2020. the charanzová report, which i supported with my vote today, deals with the issue of the accessibility of mobile banks' websites and mobile applications on the basis of these considerations. the new rules will require websites and mobile applications of public bodies such as administrations, courts, public hospitals and universities to meet common accessibility standards. public bodies will also be required to provide and regularly update a detailed accessibility statement on the compliance of their websites and applications with the directive, including explanations in case of non-accessible content, which will have to be duly justified.
in writing. ‒ i find the objectives of the proposed directive on the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications to be shared and appreciated. it is important today to ensure that citizens have access to this type of service, especially those who have not been able to do so until now, such as the visually impaired and the elderly. web technology services can be a valuable help, which is why i am in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ article 9 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities requires member states and the eu to take appropriate measures to ensure equal access for persons with disabilities to information and communication technologies, including the internet. in 2012, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive aimed at ensuring equal access to information, web browsing and management of mobile applications of public bodies for both people with physical or mental disabilities and people with advanced age and poor digital skills. the internet has become an essential tool for obtaining and providing information and services. it is therefore more important than ever to ensure that all citizens can perceive, understand and interact with websites and mobile applications appropriately. in the eu, some 80 million people are affected by a disability. and as europe's population ages, this figure is expected to rise to 120 million by 2020. a common approach to ensuring network accessibility is a prerequisite for an inclusive digital society, which takes full advantage of the digital single market to promote dignity, participation and fair information.
in writing. ‒ after careful reading and discussion in the chamber, i have given my favourable vote to the recommendation for the second reading on the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications, on the basis of the following considerations: the need to access public administration information and services in a comprehensive, rapid and transparent manner through the use of web platforms, not only for general information but also for sensitive data and certificate extraction; this translates into an implementation of transparency and administrative efficiency, two key parameters for assessing the good governance of the pa; as a result, the concept of administrative efficiency has gradually and rapidly moved from the real to the virtual world, which has posed new challenges, such as the development of websites accessible to all users, in particular to people with functional limitations, including the disabled; to this end, websites must be structured in such a way as to allow for a two-way correspondence between the citizen-user and the administrative machine, also allowing for the downloading of modules and the implementation of digital circumvention and authentication, as well as transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which requires that public bodies' websites and their 'mobile' applications be accessible to the over 167 million citizens with disabilities living within the eu. the proposal sets out some common standards that public sector websites must meet in terms of navigation, interaction, readability, comprehensibility, website design. in this way, public bodies will have to provide and regularly update a detailed, comprehensive and transparent statement on the compliance of their websites with the directive, highlighting any parts of the content that are not accessible and the reasons for such inaccessibility.
in writing. ‒ we live in a digital age, where communication technologies allow us to be always informed and constantly connected, including to our public institutions. all european citizens must be able to enjoy the benefits of digitalisation, especially in terms of accessibility of public bodies' websites and mobile applications. i voted in favour of the document because i strongly support the objective of improving the accessibility of online services offered by public bodies, especially for people with disabilities. there must be no barriers to access to these services, and every eu citizen must have the same opportunities to be informed and to communicate with public authorities online. last but not least, i believe that the harmonisation measures provided for in the directive will bring significant benefits to the digital single market more generally by promoting a common approach and clarity in the rules on website accessibility.
in writing. ‒ we live in a digital age, our children are growing up learning to use technology before they can read and write, so states must take note of modern times and adapt by providing appropriate responses. i therefore voted in favour of a proposal which makes it clear that all public service providers must be secure in the transmission of information and must protect personal data. it follows that compliance with web accessibility and related security requirements should be subject to continuous monitoring by a competent authority in each member state as the body responsible for monitoring. the directive will also set minimum conditions for accessibility. the expected result is to streamline, facilitate and accelerate contact with public bodies and their services, thus contributing to economic and employment growth. all too often, projects have been abandoned because of the bible or communication barriers, and we are now preparing to eradicate such phenomena.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because the directive concerns a very important area for the relationship between the administration and the citizens, namely the accessibility of public bodies' websites. accessibility will also be ensured through mobile applications and the legislation will apply to all public sector bodies, setting minimum accessibility conditions and providing that only content that is not necessary for essential administrative procedures may not be accessible on websites. the directive will also allow citizens to request information on demand if the content they are looking for is not available on the website and will have the possibility to notify the institution of any malfunctioning of the service through a feedback mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to adopt the directive on the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications, as i believe it is an important step towards an inclusive digital single market at european level. this directive aims to make the internet increasingly accessible to all citizens, given the need to benefit from the digital society in order to access and provide information and services. the european market for web accessibility products and services is estimated to be worth €2 billion, accessible websites account for no more than 10% and 120 million european citizens will be affected by disability by 2020. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. i therefore support the process of harmonising web accessibility policies, first of all for public bodies, so that they can better fulfil their functions and reach the greatest number of people.
in writing. ‒ since the late 1960s, when it was first developed for defence purposes, the internet has become the main mass media and one of the essential tools for providing and obtaining information and services from around the world. with today's overwhelming vote, the european parliament is giving the green light to a set of eu-wide rules that will make it easier and more fully accessible for public bodies' websites and also mobile applications, such as smartphones and tablets, for transactions such as tax returns, paying taxes or enrolling in university. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the full availability and accessibility of digital technologies, the web and mobile applications providing e-government services, are the key requirements for spreading the benefits of the ongoing digital revolution to everyone - no one excluded.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal to improve the accessibility of public bodies' websites and smartphone applications.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that even today, in the digital age, information on websites and accessibility to public sector applications are still restricted to the extent that they cannot be used widely and indiscriminately. a civil and emancipated society cannot allow categories of people who live with disadvantages and disabilities to be excluded from free and simplified access to information. i therefore welcome the calls contained in the report on the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications, which i supported with my vote, in the hope that knowledge, knowledge and information will not remain locked up in sterile barriers, which only serve to increase the threat of social exclusion for the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. i give a favourable opinion on the proposal on the accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications. according to statistics, almost 80 million people in the union have a disability that limits their access to the internet, a number that is likely to increase to 120 million by 2020. for these reasons, parliament's recommendation sets out the minimum conditions for making public bodies' websites, including government offices, courts, hospitals, and universities, accessible to disabled and elderly people. in doing so, these people will also have access to certain content via mobile and tablet applications, and will be able to carry out activities such as tax returns, claiming benefits and paying taxes. i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the internet has become an essential tool for obtaining and providing information and services, so it is more important than ever to ensure that all citizens can perceive, understand and interact with websites and mobile applications. i believe that this proposal is a necessary step towards ensuring that the institutions' websites and mobile applications are accessible to everyone. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the directive will set minimum conditions for making public bodies' websites accessible to people with disabilities. thanks to parliament's efforts, the agreement will also cover mobile phone applications and the scope is extended to all public sector bodies (thus beyond the 12 categories initially proposed by the commission). some content may be excluded, but only if it is not necessary for essential administrative procedures. public bodies will have to prepare an 'accessibility statement' on their compliance with the directive, explaining which parts of their website or application are not accessible. the directive will also allow specific information to be requested on-demand if the content is inaccessible. this is a sensible legislative proposal which will make a real difference to the lives of disabled people. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the new directive will set out for the first time eu-wide rules to ensure that disabled people and older people have access to the websites and mobile applications of public bodies such as administrations, police departments, hospitals, universities, libraries and courts. currently, there are around 80 million people in the eu with a disability and it is estimated that as the population ages, the number of people with difficulty accessing the web will increase to 120 million by 2020. when performing tasks such as filing income tax returns, paying taxes, or enrolling in college, it is often important for people with disabilities to be able to turn text into speech, images into text, or use computers without a mouse. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this directive, in the hope that the new provisions will be rapidly transposed by the member states.
in writing. ‒ our daily lives are changing radically thanks to mobile applications and digital technologies, there are many positive aspects, but there are still questions related to the dissemination of data and privacy. the report by mrs charanzova is an essential element in the protection of the citizen, because it states that everyone should be treated equally when it comes to access to information. this directive is an important step towards an inclusive digital society, as it will enable public sector websites and all content to be accessible to disadvantaged groups such as citizens with disabilities, the elderly, the blind and visually impaired, the deaf and people with functional disabilities.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this new regulation is the result of months of constant work with the rapporteur and my colleagues, but above all it is a great success for the defence of agriculture and the environment. by replacing a 15-year-old directive, we are finally getting past the contradictions of the commission, which is showing quite a few shortcomings in its emergency management in the xylella affair. yes, because, after imposing measures that were simply impracticable to combat the bacterium, the commission, through commissioner andriukaitis, has initiated an infringement procedure against italy, denying it the possibility of carrying out an environmental impact assessment. the reason is that this would delay the obligation to act immediately and therefore to eradicate hectares of olive groves, even centuries old. but environment commissioner vella does not see it that way. in reply to a question i put, you stress that plans for the eradication of organisms harmful to plants of agricultural interest must be subject to environmental assessment, not excluding emergency cases. but beyond this exquisitely political quarrel, we should move along parallel tracks and therefore on the technical and scientific level, but we have on the one hand italy, which for months has only provided information on the pathogen and potential vectors, and on the other france, which has not been able to give any evidence of any kind on its infected plants and which, after discovering that it used a wrong test, unable to identify the xylella pauca strain, accuses italy of contagion and discovers, moreover, that in its territory a sub-species has already generated different strains, raising well-founded suspicions of a long presence of xylella pauca on french soil. i repeat what i have been saying for months: we are not going to be able to do that. is the problem european? well, then, it should be treated as such. it's only a matter of time before more outbreaks are discovered. there is no need to punish the member states: it is not by environmentally unfriendly eradication or economic blackmail that we can combat plant health emergencies, but by far-sighted policy action and regulation such as the one we voted for today.
in writing. ‒ the issue of plant pests is becoming, over time, a very sensitive one. in fact, just look at what is happening in italy with the xylella parasite, which is killing thousands of olive trees in the puglia region. it is therefore clear that a regulation introducing stricter import arrangements and restrictive conditions for the protection of the environment is needed. that is why i have decided to vote against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa, which has damaged many olive groves in italy, has brought the fundamental issue of plant health to the public's attention. the mcintyre report, which i support, is aimed specifically at defining a series of protective measures against harmful organisms affecting the plant world. in a globalised world, with continuous trade and climate change, the scale of risks is constantly increasing and requires the use of innovative tools that are able to respond effectively to new challenges. the new regulation is a response to this need. it provides for rapid response mechanisms for suspected plant importation, the establishment of emergency plans for outbreaks in all member states and a general increase in pest surveillance efforts in the union. the phytosanitary certificate requirement will be extended to all plants and plant products from third countries, as will the use of the 'plant passport' within the eu. member states will be allowed to impose eradication measures even in private places, provided that those farmers who are affected by such measures are fairly compensated.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of a new regulation on protection measures against harmful organisms of plants can be a good starting point for more effective action to combat the growing phytosanitary problems, in particular those caused by the spread of harmful organisms from distant countries, which damage crops and the environment of our territories. however, we must be careful that the new regulation does not create new bureaucratic burdens for our companies.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the globalisation of markets, we are seeing an increase in trade flows, but at the same time we are also seeing an increase in the risk of contagion by diseases and other harmful organisms. that is why an agreement at european level is needed to protect agriculture, a key sector of the european economy. i therefore welcome an agreement to strengthen prevention in this area, to limit the entry of harmful organisms into european territory through trade in plants. the new regulation introduces a risk pre-assessment mechanism, which is to be applied to all the member states. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in order to ensure that plants and other plant protection products considered to be at risk can no longer be transported across eu borders. in addition to increased control, there is also considerable trade facilitation, which aims to improve cooperation between member states, and a considerable simplification of certification practices. the instruments contained in the agreement will therefore enable the european union to develop a more proactive policy to protect biodiversity and the competitiveness of our agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted, at first reading, a legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants. attention should be paid to the risk of introduction of plant pests into the union territory, which has increased due to the globalisation of trade and climate change. parliament therefore stressed the importance of taking preventive and protective measures and of identifying the presence of harmful organisms at an early stage in order to ensure their rapid and effective eradication. this regulation should lay down rules on plant health inspections and plant health measures to prevent the introduction of harmful organisms from other member states or third countries. in addition, all information on the possible economic, environmental and social impacts of plant pests should be made available to the public. awareness raising and training in pest management for professionals, local government officials, garden centres, importers, researchers, government department officials, politicians and individuals is also of key importance. the text also provides for the modernisation of plant protection products' commercial instruments, with a focus on a risk-based approach.
in writing. ‒ today we have adopted new eu rules to help prevent the spread of plant pests in europe, such as xylella fastidiosa in olive groves, and to contain potential outbreaks. the regulation introduces new preventive rapid response mechanisms for suspected plant imports, intensifies pest surveillance efforts in the eu and requires all member states to draw up emergency plans for outbreaks. pests and diseases do not respect national boundaries. that is why it is so important to have eu-wide rules for the protection of our agriculture, horticulture and forestry, through a proportionate and risk-based approach, which provides for better cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ the phytosanitary factor is crucial for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, but also important for the protection of biodiversity and economic services. pests from other continents have proved to be particularly dangerous and can cause serious economic losses and undermine the competitiveness of our farmers. this regulation, which will replace a 15-year-old directive, contains favourable elements and measures such as: containment and prevention measures in cases where eradication is no longer possible, increases compensation for affected areas, ensures greater transparency through the creation of an ad hoc emergency register, is mentioned for the first time among the conditions for identifying a priority test of social and environmental conditions and in particular refers to tree species of great importance in terms of landscape and cultural or historical heritage for the union (secular olive trees), removes the reference to efsa as the main scientific interlocutor . in the light of the above, i voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ plant health is a key factor in the competitiveness of the agriculture, horticulture and forestry sectors. pesticides or harmful organisms such as insects, fungi, bacteria and viruses, especially from other continents, can cause serious damage to plants and spread rapidly in the absence of an adequate protection system. i would like to mention the case of xylella fastidiosa, a bacterium from america, which in 2104 devastated some 30 000 hectares of olive groves in the italian region of puglia, causing significant economic losses for the growers. in the light of this dramatic event, i also believe that it is necessary to amend the basic legislation to deal with the risks associated with the arrival of new pests on the territory of the union as a result of the processes of globalisation and climate change. i therefore believe that the new regulation, which aims at a higher degree of security of the import system, is moving in this direction. for these reasons i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the proposal as italy, thanks to its climate, enjoys a particularly flourishing territory, but it is also sadly exposed and vulnerable to the risk of introducing new pathogens, whose presence has increased due to trade and climate change. consider how viruses, fungi and insects are attacking our earth's finest, one of them: the production of chestnuts has been cut down by the cynipids, a chinese tree-dweller parasite, causing over 200 million dollars in damage. this measure requires an update of phytosanitary certificates for extra-eu trade and plant passports in intra-eu trade. in conjunction with this, an electronic system shall be set up for the notification of information and for determining the nature for which a harmful organism is classified for quarantine in order to facilitate rapid protection against pathogens. i therefore renew the mandate to the commission to identify the organisms for which priority intervention obligations must necessarily be laid down and, at the same time, to draw up a list of plants and products at high risk for which special measures must be laid down.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the introduction of the procedure for suspending the import of plants considered to be dangerous. the requirement of a phytosanitary certificate for the transport of plants in baggage for both importers and consumers, and the extension of the 'plant passport' system for movements of plants for planting within the eu, strengthen and modernise the control mechanisms for plant diseases, which are particularly important for european countries most at risk of introducing new pathogens.
in writing. ‒ with this legislative resolution, parliament endorses the council's position with a view to adopting the regulation on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the safeguarding of the agricultural and forestry sectors is a top priority for the eu economy and for the health of its citizens. the environmental damage and economic loss to farmers caused by the xylella parasite to olive groves in the southern member states must not be repeated. the regulation takes account of the rapid spread of pests and diseases across national borders and makes important improvements to the existing legislative framework. the current european objectives are: prevent the entry of organisms harmful to plants into the eu, eliminate them where they are already present and prevent the spread of any outbreaks. among the measures planned to achieve the identified objectives, improved protection for products to be imported, clearer rules for protected areas and the harmonisation of plant passports at european level were identified.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal for a new regulation on protective measures against plant pests and harmful organisms. the safety of the eu plant health regime is essential for the safeguarding of the agricultural economy, but also for the health of the population. this requires more organised and stringent controls, a framework of prevention and rules that are secure for our safety and traceability of plant movements in the eu that can also deal with the new frontiers of online business. i particularly welcome the idea of the plant passport, to ensure full monitoring, especially of potentially dangerous imports from third countries into the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec, because i think it is important to give final approval to the reform of eu plant protection legislation. as the xylella case has shown, the current eu legislation is inadequate to ensure the protection of plant organisms from harmful organisms, due to several shortcomings such as import controls, standard emergency interventions not related to the specific characteristics of the territories and organisms concerned, lack of compensatory measures, delays in the implementation of good agricultural practices. interinstitutional negotiations have led to some good compromises, such as the removal of the 10% limit for the quarantine of pesticides and the introduction of a precautionary approach to imports, and the requirement for importers to show a phytosanitary certificate. i hope therefore that the new legislation will be adopted quickly.
in writing. ‒ if up to a few years ago the plant health aspects of agriculture were the business of the insiders, today things have changed a lot. cases such as that of xylella in puglia and that of tristeza in sicily today are shining a spotlight on a problem, that of plant infection, which is causing enormous damage to an agricultural sector already in serious crisis. this regulation certainly improves the alert system: improved surveillance and early eradication of new outbreaks, as well as modernisation of trade tools are important measures. but more must be done. both ex ante and ex post. ex ante controls on products coming from third countries must be much stricter and the commission must be prompt in the case of interceptions of infested products, the 'precautionary principle' must be strengthened. today, for example, trade associations are alerting us to the citrus black spot and we must act immediately. ex post, when it is unfortunately necessary to plant and replant, farmers must be given adequate support through direct aid without demanding everything from the rdps. the european union is perhaps excessively exposed to the entry of goods from third countries and this has very heavy repercussions, especially on our agriculture.
in writing. in recent years we have seen the entry from third countries of pathogens of various kinds that have attacked crops, plantations and ornamental plants, with a daily record of ordinary devastation in terms of crop loss and economic damage. this vote is a major achievement for europe as the risk of invasion by pathogens from third countries remains high. in recent years we have seen the destruction of part of our production and ornamental heritage, due to lax controls and the failure to block imports when necessary. it is time for a change of course and i am sure that only by more serious analysis of the plant material entering the eu can we prevent further cases of invasion. the 'plant passport', an important new feature of the regulation, will ensure that plant material entering the eu is free from pathogens and will therefore considerably reduce the risk of importing harmful organisms from third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. today's vote is a victory for our agriculture.
in writing. ‒ while taking into account the aspects presented in the document concerning protection measures against organisms harmful to plants and while admitting that i shall follow the development of the above argument with interest, i do not consider that this objection corresponds to my thinking and therefore i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the shortcomings of the eu plant health regime currently in force require a reform of these rules. the focus should be on prevention, introducing new mechanisms to prevent the entry of 'high risk' pests into the eu, and on strengthening the eu's pest surveillance tools. it is important that member states develop emergency measures for outbreaks, such as xylella fastidiosa in olive groves, in order to respond to such threats in a coordinated manner throughout the union. i decided to vote in favour because i believe it is of paramount importance to strengthen the application of health and safety rules throughout the agri-food chain.
in writing. ‒ plant health is a key factor in promoting the agricultural and forestry sectors. the eu plant health regime is essential to protect the health, economy and competitiveness of eu plant production, also in view of the recent outbreaks of outbreaks in europe, such as the xylella case which threatens to destroy part of the olive grove in southern italy. these problems are due to the uncontrolled importation of infected plants and organisms from third countries, which have found fertile ground in our territory. a common and effective response is needed, for nature and for workers.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the country-specific recommendations made by the commission in the context of the european semester. the text is entirely focused on compliance with budgetary constraints and the inadequacy of structural reforms implemented by member states and completely lacks a part discussing the need to implement measures to manage member states' trade surpluses which create risky economic imbalances. for the reasons described above, i have decided to vote against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in a complicated international context, where the consequences of brexit are linked to possible economic uncertainties and low growth prospects, it is essential to clearly define the priorities that the union must pursue in the area of economic policy coordination. my vote in favour of the sant report is motivated by the conviction that stimulating domestic demand and investment is a priority if we are to effectively meet the challenges posed by globalisation, the digital revolution, ageing and climate change. the union needs to increase financing opportunities, in particular for smes, by making banks healthier and strengthening their capacity to lend to the real economy. the banking union must be completed and implemented as soon as possible, the capital markets union must be developed and the fragmentation of the euro area financial markets must be prevented. the commission must in general endeavour to implement all measures which can reduce the obstacles to investment in such crucial sectors as transport, energy and communications, while at the same time promoting a reduction in the tax wedge on labour in the member states. only by adopting these instruments can europe live up to the expectations of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report analysing the governance of the single market in the context of the 2016 european semester. i think that the eu's usual, failed policies of austerity are being proposed once again. the text's shared hopes for economic development, employment and growth are in clear conflict with the eu's basic structure, which, due to budgetary constraints and the increasingly reduced possibility for direct intervention by the member states, is actually preventing the economic recovery of our territories. for all these reasons i have spoken out against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the economic crisis, europe is still in a slow growth phase, with a deep investment deficit and high unemployment rates in many of its member states. the eu therefore needs stronger and above all inclusive growth, capable of supporting employment, by proposing structural reforms and pursuing responsible fiscal policies. for this reason, i support the growth and investment approach advocated in the report on the european semester, with the aim of creating a favourable climate for both public and private investment. the european semester 2016 focused on a limited number of priority areas, highlighting the need for socially sustainable reforms focusing on the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and training. at a time when some of its member states are facing considerable external pressures that are putting a strain on investment, the european commission must keep in mind the key principles on which the union is based, namely solidarity and cooperation, by fully applying the flexibility mechanisms in the framework of the evaluation of national budgetary policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of 2016 priorities included in the european semester programme because, on the one hand, it welcomes the main priorities to further strengthen economic growth identified by the commission. on the other hand, it calls on the commission to make full use of the flexibility clauses included in the stability and growth pact. indeed, i believe more flexibility is needed in europe nowadays, while fiscal sustainability shall be guaranteed by member states. in addition to that, i believe more measures should be taken in order to deal with the current levels of unemployment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament notes that the eu economy will grow less than economic forecasts for 2016. it therefore stresses the need to increase growth, cohesion, productivity and competitiveness; believing that the lack of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in completing the single market are depriving the eu of its full growth potential. the priorities for further strengthening economic growth are to promote investment for innovation, growth and job creation, to pursue socially balanced structural reforms and to encourage responsible management of public finances. it stressed that the still too high unemployment rates showed that some member states were not able to create quality employment. it calls for a greater effort to reduce poverty, social exclusion and growing inequalities. it notes that monetary policy alone is not sufficient to stimulate growth if sustainable investment and structural reforms are lacking. stresses the importance of completing and implementing the banking union, developing the capital markets union to create a stable environment for investment and growth and creating an inclusive single market; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. ‒ the report is not a legislative one and concerns parliament's view on the country-specific recommendations (csrs) formulated by the commission in the context of the european semester. the text focuses on compliance with budgetary constraints, the failure and insufficient application of european governance rules and the inadequate implementation of structural reforms by member states. in addition, there is no criticism of the need to take corrective measures to manage excessive trade surpluses, which are the cause of enormous macroeconomic imbalances within the euro area. i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the report, for which i am voting in favour, contains the european parliament's contribution to the second phase of the european semester 2016. the document sets out the general economic and social priorities for the european union and analyses the specific recommendations addressed to individual member states by the commission in its annual growth report for 2016. i think that my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) have done a very good job in presenting a balanced text which combines the reference to socially acceptable structural reforms with an increase in investment. i believe that the revival of investment within the union is essential to stimulate growth, the creation of quality jobs, innovation and the fight against inequality and poverty. i particularly appreciated the inclusion in the text of a procedure for social imbalances in the elaboration of the country-specific recommendations. i think it is essential to avoid structural macroeconomic reforms being a race to the bottom in terms of social and employment standards.
in writing. - i vote against this report. the shared hopes for economic development, employment and growth are at odds with the eu's basic structure, which is based on budgetary constraints and the increasing inability of member states to intervene directly to invest on the various fronts of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ although i voted in favour of the measure, i do not deny that reading it in its entirety meant accepting one of the most disastrous scenarios, since it takes account of the dramatic situation our union has been in for years. all diseases are made up of several stages: first denial, then acceptance and struggle. we have long tried to disguise stagnant growth as a temporary element or to hide unemployment under the veil of reforms that were never introduced, but this measure is intended to take account of the ills of the union in order to make it look better, and it therefore lays out the challenges that need to be addressed. these include a sharp increase of 4.2 million in the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion and the growth of inequalities. fortunately, europe 2020 contains for the first time a programme to combat poverty, which will be implemented in 2017. overall, the aim is to improve the capacity to generate growth and competitiveness while maintaining quality jobs and to introduce inclusive education systems that are sources of innovation and creativity relevant to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the key points of the policies and activities that the european union will have to sustain in the short term, such as: facilitating investment in the most sensitive sectors, namely education, innovation, research and development; reducing the youth unemployment rate through action by national authorities and social partners to strengthen vocational skills and make the labour market more inclusive; strengthening the single market through greater use of eu funding and investment sources, especially for smes, and achieving mutual recognition of qualifications; modernising public administration services, particularly through e-government procedures, improving cross-border cooperation and simplifying administrative procedures in order to improve relations between businesses and citizens with local government bodies.
in writing. ‒ the european semester report offers many ideas, given that the european union is still struggling to recover economic growth and that the economic and social crisis is still being felt in some countries. there are two key concepts that are important to highlight. the first concerns the need for sustainable investment to boost demand on the continent: this will help to sustain growth potential. the second important element is job creation through the implementation of sustainable budgetary policies to create a better working environment. at the same time, growth-oriented fiscal policies must be promoted in order to complement the effect of monetary policy. in this sense, the flexibility included in the rules of the stability and growth pact must be considered above all in the light of the importance of public investment in the european economic structure. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which i consider to be balanced in its approach to a reform of the european semester which takes account of the importance of sustainable growth, investment and the creation of quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report, but apart from some 'good wishes' which can be shared, the basic approach is still based on budgetary constraints and the increasingly limited possibilities for direct intervention by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate mr sant on the drafting of this important report, which focuses on one of the most important aspects of the so-called european semester procedure, namely implementation. i would like to stress that last year the s&d group voted against a similar report, drawn up by another rapporteur at the time, because it was considered too austerity-oriented. this year our rapporteur has instead introduced a number of forecasts aimed at framing structural reforms around the objective of growth, employment and social equity, which i consider to be a very significant step forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: the commission is also proposing to implement the priorities for 2016 as this exercise provides a useful opportunity to reflect on the state of the eu economy from the perspective of the ec recommendations to member states. in other words, to highlight what didn't work and what remains to be done. the budget is not satisfactory, although there are signs of a weak recovery, which is limited to some economies and not widespread. the state of the eu economy over the last two years remains worrying, which is why the ep report focused on a number of key points: the importance of long-term investment, which is essential to consolidate sustainable growth pathways, to promote smes, to increase investment opportunities and access to credit. the role of the efsi is crucial but not sufficient, capital needs to be mobilised for new investment because the data on youth unemployment are not positive, although there is a slight decrease. social investment in human capital must therefore become a key complementary measure, as human capital is a factor of growth and a driver of competitiveness and development.
in writing. the report stresses the need to improve the eu's overall capacity to create and maintain jobs. to this end, it is important to address the structural challenges of demography, labour market and taxation, which must be complemented by efficient public spending, in particular on socially and environmentally sustainable investment. in order to support structural reforms in line with the common economic priorities, the use of the european structural and investment funds should be promoted, in order to achieve the key priorities through measures linking the effectiveness of these funds to sound economic governance. these initiatives, which i support, are aimed at boosting investment within the eu, providing a key stimulus to growth, job creation and the fight against inequality and poverty.
in writing. ‒ the european semester report on economic policy coordination is the european parliament's contribution to the second phase of the 2016 semester and analyses the implementation of the country-specific recommendations. this text is to be welcomed because it is balanced and focuses on the need to increase investment and promote structural reforms which also take into account the social dimension. in particular, the report focuses on improving the eu's capacity to create growth, convergence and quality jobs, and to tackle poverty, inequality and social exclusion. the text also incorporates suggestions from the parliament's committee on employment and social affairs, calls for the inclusion of a social imbalance procedure in the coordination of economic policies and proposes the introduction of a european minimum income framework. in this report, the european parliament advocates the need for better implementation of the economic policy mix by both the union and the member states, in order to expand investment to meet the objectives set by the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ while taking into account the aspects presented in the documents relating to the resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination and admitting that i will follow with interest the development of the above-mentioned topic, in particular by comparing the growth of the eu economy with the spring 2016 economic forecast, carefully evaluating the points covered by the objection, i consider that they do not fully correspond to my idea and therefore i do not feel that i support it and i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i wanted to support, highlights the urgency of boosting economic growth in europe through investment, implementing sustainable structural reforms and reducing the economic and social disparities that have emerged in different areas of the eu. an increase in the level of investment is essential to stimulate growth, productivity and competitiveness of enterprises and to reduce the economic and social gap. i am glad to see that the emphasis is on the need for sustainable growth rather than on reforms to further precariousise the labour market. excessive economic inequalities, as recently also noted by the oecd and the imf, are harmful not only to social cohesion but also to growth itself. in an economic situation such as the one we are experiencing, with surpluses of liquidity and current accounts, with weak private demand and investment, monetary policy alone is no longer sufficient to boost growth without an adequate level of investment. the fiscal policy of the states and the eu investment policy should therefore, in a balanced and complementary manner, make up for the shortcomings and foster a climate of confidence that attracts additional resources from private investment.
in writing. i voted against this unacceptable resolution of parliament which welcomes the work done so far by the commission in the european semester on country-specific recommendations, whilst completely ignoring the harmful and counterproductive impacts of its economic prescriptions and the failure of the current mechanism for coordinating national fiscal policies. like the previous recommendations, the 2016 recommendations are inspired by a suicidal economic strategy based on the usual neoliberal mantra that still calls for austerity, structural reforms, liberalization and private investment, but this parliamentary resolution does not seem to feel the need for a real change of course. once again, parliament is missing an important opportunity to question the sustainability of the euro and its role in preventing countries from regaining competitiveness, to point the finger at the arbitrary application of rules by the commission, which is hard and inflexible with weak countries and lenient with strong ones, and to deplore its inaction in relation to the excessive german surplus, which is responsible for instability and imbalances throughout europe, and to highlight the negative link between the absence of public investment and absurd budgetary constraints. unfortunately, these fundamental issues are deliberately omitted from the resolution in order to support and defend religiously the construction of economic and monetary union and its indispensable governance mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the annual own-initiative report presented by the european parliament on the commission's country-specific recommendations (csrs) in the context of the european semester. i voted against because i think the final text is completely unsatisfactory: focuses on compliance with budgetary constraints, the failure and insufficient application of european governance rules and the inadequate implementation of structural reforms by member states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (ceecs) is based on the principle of the free movement of capital. the conclusion drawn by the report is that there is no need to question the existing rules, let alone to amend the treaties, statements with which i totally disagree.
in writing. ‒ hydrogenated fats pose a serious danger to human health: it is proven that they greatly increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and related diseases, and for this reason they should be completely eliminated from the diet. as far as trans fats are concerned, there have been no attempts at harmonization to date and individual initiatives by the member states may not be enough, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids (tfa) are a type of unsaturated fat found in ruminant foods and industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. according to various studies, their consumption can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and obesity. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled today in parliament because i believe that, in the light of the data presented, it is a priority to limit the use of fatty acids, following the example of denmark, which has already acted in this direction since 2003 with positive results and a considerable reduction in deaths from cardiovascular diseases. tfa are used in cheaper food with the consequence that people with lower socioeconomic status are found to be more exposed to their consumption and therefore more exposed to a risk that widen health inequalities. the resolution calls on the commission to introduce new eu rules to limit the content of industrial tfas in products, preferably within two years.
in writing. ‒ although the text is partially open to discussion, there are some unclear passages which could open the door to future criticism. i therefore voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids (tfa) are found in many industrially produced foods to ensure a longer shelf life. they represent a real risk to human health; it has long been scientifically proven that the consumption of these hydrogenated fats is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, one of the main causes of mortality in the european union. this is all the more alarming when you consider that the people most likely to consume foods high in tfa are mostly younger and lower-income citizens. i therefore support the call on the commission in the report voted today to introduce a legislative framework which substantially reduces the amount of tfa in foodstuffs from industrial production in order to protect consumers from the risks of excessive intake. the european union must therefore act on two fronts: firstly, to protect the health of its citizens by encouraging them to make healthier and more informed food choices, and secondly, to facilitate the transition of the food industry by encouraging the health-reformulation of products that now contain tfa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on trans fats because the parliament is committed to protecting the human health of citizens and the trans-fatty acids pose a risk to it. mainly for that reason, i believe both the food industry and consumers have to choose products that comply with health and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids (tfa) are unsaturated fats found in food from ruminants and in industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. their consumption has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. the eu should set binding limits on the amounts of tfa in food, as these can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity for consumers. the resolution, which was adopted by 586 votes in favour, points out that according to the european commission, only one in three consumers is aware of tfa; this shows that the labelling measures have failed to be effective and therefore the commission should propose the introduction of eu standards to limit the content of industrial tfas. the introduction of binding limits for industrial tfas in denmark has led to positive results, with a considerable reduction in deaths from cardiovascular disease. in addition, as tfas tend to be used in cheaper foods, people with lower socioeconomic status are more exposed to foods with high tfas and this increases the risk of widening health inequalities.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which calls for the introduction of an eu legal limit on the content of industrial trans fats (tfa) in food. in europe, this measure has already been adopted by austria, denmark, latvia and hungary. tfa is a fat produced mostly by chemical processes, highly harmful to our body, causing coronary heart disease, diabetes and obesity. their intake is mainly linked to the consumption of industrially produced vegetable oils, such as margarine, which are found in large quantities in bakery products and in foods with a long shelf life, consumed mainly by children. tfa also occurs in nature, particularly in dairy products and meat, but in such small quantities that it does not pose any danger to human health, according to the who. the report calls on the commission to work with member states to improve nutritional literacy, encourage and enable consumers to make healthier food choices and engage with industry to promote healthy reformulation of products.
in writing. ‒ trans fats (also called hydrogenated fats) are those fats that have undergone the hydrogenation process, so that our body perceives them as saturated. these fats, used in many confections such as sweets and ice cream, greatly increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and should be eliminated from the diet altogether. the aim is therefore to identify a harmonised approach at eu level to counterfeiting; i agree with the end and the means chosen and i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the measure as it concerns unsaturated fatty acids of industrial production, maintaining the axiom that healthy fats contribute to the proper functioning of our organism. frequent consumption of trans fats, on the other hand, is associated with increased cardiovascular disease, infertility, diabetes and obesity, and a harmonised approach at european level is urgently needed. in fact, a patchwork of national regulations would not only have different impacts on the health of citizens, but would also create distortions in the internal market and obstacles to innovation in the food industry. in the light of these realities, the commission must introduce a legal limit as soon as possible, also assessing the costs of industrial reformulations that companies in the sector would have to face. limiting tfa can bring rapid and significant health benefits as can be seen from the example of denmark, which introduced a national limit of 2% in oils and fats in 2003 and has seen a significant decrease in deaths from cardiovascular disease. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because tfas, i.e. partially hydrogenated oils contained in industrially produced food products such as biscuits, cakes, fried foods and bakery products, can pose a danger to consumers in the long term. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs containing tfa was adopted on the basis of the proposal from the commission. parliament also called on the commission to carry out an impact assessment of the costs of introducing the tfa thresholds, with particular attention to smes in the sector concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the risks posed by trans fats (tfa) to human health and highlights the need for a uniform legislative framework at european level to reduce the average intake of tfa. at present there are no european provisions on the content of tfa in food and the obligation to label foodstuffs accordingly. some member states, such as denmark, have adopted a restrictive regulatory regime (national limit of 2% on the trans fat content of oils and fats), while most other member states have opted for voluntary measures. not only do tfa cause cardiovascular disease, but they are also more prevalent in cheaper food products, exposing lower-income citizens to excessive consumption of harmful foods. in addition, consumers under current eu rules may have difficulty understanding the difference between hydrogenated oils (which do not contain tfa but only saturated fatty acids) and partially hydrogenated oils. i therefore support the call on the commission to work with the member states to improve nutritional literacy and to introduce an eu legal limit on the content of industrial tfas in all food products.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from the report: the problem of the excessive intake of artificially produced tfas is certainly real, but i think a voluntary approach is preferable, encouraging the food industry to use alternative production methods.
in writing. ‒ i can only support the questions put by the honourable member to the commission and the council on the need for monitoring and urgent action to curb the risks associated with the spread and consumption of industrial fatty acids in certain foods. the health of european citizens is at stake. several studies have shown how harmful these substances can be to our well-being. the message from the european parliament with this vote is clear: we cannot wait any longer, and urgent action is needed to limit the intake of tfa in the eu. immediate action and responses are needed to safeguard the health of european citizens. the s&d group has fought this battle with conviction and we are now formally giving it our full support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-wide limits on trans fats in food because i believe that the european union should impose binding limits on the amounts of industrially produced trans fatty acids (tfa) in food as these can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes and consumer obesity. the resolution stresses the lack of information among consumers, with only one in three consumers being adequately informed about tfa, according to ec figures, reflecting the lack of clarity in labelling. the ep therefore calls on the commission to introduce binding european standards to limit the content of industrial tfas within the next two years. denmark already set a national limit of 2% in 2003, and other member states have followed suit. these are good practices which other member states should follow, but the matter can only be regulated efficiently by establishing common rules at european level. i therefore hope that the next ec legislative proposal will be clear and compelling.
in writing. trans fatty acids (tfa) are unsaturated fats that can be found in food from ruminants and in industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. unfortunately, high consumption of these fats is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity, infertility and alzheimer's disease, and they are more frequently used in cheaper foods, putting consumers from lower socioeconomic status at greater risk of these diseases. denmark was the first member state to implement a national plan regulating the use of tfas, which has had positive results in reducing deaths from cardiovascular disease. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in food. citizens are often exposed to unhealthy food and as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i believe it is the duty of the institutions to ensure that this is regulated. for these reasons, i have decided to support the motion for a resolution on trans fats.
in writing. ‒ given that trans fats are a particular type of unsaturated fat and that a high intake of trans fats increases the risk of developing coronary heart disease, and taking into account the who recommendations on the consumption of trans fats, i believe that efforts at european level to limit the intake of industrial trans fats should be intensified. i am also convinced that it is up to the eu to take appropriate decisions to regulate this sector and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is scientifically proven that the intake of trans fats increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes. it is almost superfluous to mention that these types of noncommunicable diseases are the leading cause of death in the world. yet, trans fats are found in industrially produced partially hydrogenated oils used in biscuits, cakes, popcorn, crackers, margarine, and many other supermarket products. all foods, you know, that are eaten mostly by children. we should bear in mind that the who has reported that in the eu 1 in 3 children aged between 6 and 9 are obese and that about 7% of european health expenditure is spent on the treatment of obesity-related diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases. in this resolution we call on the commission to introduce a legal limit on the trans fat content to reduce the intake of trans fats by eu citizens. i therefore voted in favour of both the final text and our amendment, which unfortunately did not pass, which called for ensuring that policies to limit the tfa content of processed food do not encourage food producers to increase the amount of palm oil in these products.
in writing. ‒ consumption of industrially produced trans fats (tfa) has been associated with an increased risk of several diseases, such as infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular disease. unfortunately, the labelling measures currently planned have not led to a decrease in the consumption of foods containing these substances, since according to some studies, only one in three consumers in the eu are aware of them. it is therefore important that the commission submit a proposal on trans fat limits, accompanied by an impact assessment examining the costs and benefits of industrial production, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. trans fats (also called hydrogenated fats, abbreviated tfa) are fats that have undergone the process of hydrogenation, that is, the addition of hydrogen to the carbon double bonds of unsaturated acids. while saturated fats in moderate amounts are essential for our bodies, trans fats should be eliminated from the diet altogether. in fact, the intake of these fats is associated with a significantly increased risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and obesity. tfas are used in a wide range of industrial preparations such as confectionery and ice cream and are more commonly used in cheaper food, with the consequence that people with lower socioeconomic status are more exposed to the intake of tfas. in this resolution, which i voted in favour of, we call on the commission to impose binding limits on the amounts of industrially produced trans fats (tfa) in food. to date, strategies to reduce tfa have been affected by the lack of a harmonised approach at eu level and individual actions by member states could have different health effects from one member state to another. health must be a protected and equal right for all european citizens.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, administrative errors amounted to 3.8% this year, but i like to talk about figures, so we are at 5.4 billion, which is not an insignificant figure, many of which are serious errors in the rules on procurement, so this is a subject which we are dealing with in the committee on budgets and which should be dealt with much more effectively. but it means that the rest of the spending, we don't know whether it's been spent well or badly, whether there's been a clerical error or not, so we need more and more detailed performance evaluations to try to assess whether this spending is actually getting results. the important thing, which i have noticed in this two-year work in the committee on budgetary control, is that there is a need for transparency and controls on these national authorities who then go on to certify the expenditure of european funds, which the commission then uses to give precisely these figures, precisely because these controllers are appointed by those who must be controlled in the member states. so, what's going on? that there might be a conflict of interest. so we have to evaluate how to act on this because, in fact, there could be these conflicts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, mr president of the court of auditors, for your excellent report. the use of the structural funds by the member states is often slowed down by bureaucratic problems and by the overlap of european and national accounting regulations. the commission should draw on the experience gained in previous programming periods and conduct an analysis of national eligibility rules, providing guidance to member states on how to simplify and avoid unnecessarily complex and burdensome rules that do not add value to the results to be achieved. for example, it is urgent to clarify the concept of recoverable vat to member states, especially for public beneficiaries, in order to avoid differences in interpretation and a suboptimal use of eu funds. i fully share the court of auditors' recommendation that the commission clarify in detail the links between the europe 2020 strategy, the multiannual financial framework and its priorities in order to strengthen the monitoring and reporting provisions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is a bit unfortunate that the court of auditors report, which is a very serious analytical document that helps us improve our work year after year, is also used to make claims that are simply false. our accounts have been signed for the ninth year in a row. we have been given a clean bill of health from that perspective. an error of 3.8% is exactly what it says. this is not money that has been stolen. this is not money wasted. it is money that is not accounted for properly in accordance with the rules. this is simply a fact, but it is also important that in this reflection we take from the court of auditors the messages that are helpful for us to do better, including in terms of bringing down the risks and the materiality of error, and that is the commitment i give. my huge respect goes to the people who implement projects. in their vast majority they do a very good job and as a result of that there are better roads, more jobs, more functioning municipalities, and even a noble prize won because of eu funding being used wisely! it is for these people i want to finish, by saying that yes, we have to push where there are problems, but we also have to be grateful to those who make the life of european citizens better and i will finish by expressing my appreciation for them.
president of the european court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking you once again for the congratulations, which have been expressed on many occasions, and also for the words of praise. let me make a few clarifying remarks, including on what has been said. i believe that if we look back at the development of eu finances over a period of 20 years, a great deal has been achieved through the cooperation of the court of auditors, parliament and the commission. if we are talking about a 3.8% error rate today, that is still too much objectively. but compared with the conditions that prevailed in the late 1990s, this is a huge, huge step forward, if i may say so here and now. this is a joint effort that has been made here. it is far from where we need to be, but it is already a very huge progress that has been made over the last 20 years. it is also true, mr zeller, that the number of fraud cases we have detected - and when i say detected, i do not mean that these are cases that have been finally solved, but there was only a sufficient initial suspicion in the context of the checks we have carried out for this year - was exactly twelve the number 12. the cases have of course been referred directly to olaf and i expect olaf to investigate these matters intensively and, where the fraud situation is becoming more serious, to draw the appropriate consequences. eur 5.5 billion - you can't say that - has not been wasted. eur 5.5 billion was not spent in accordance with the rules. there's a huge difference. it's not the same. we have complex and complicated rules in this european union - everyone knows that. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. there are too many mistakes, no question. but also because of the complexity of these rules, mistakes happen. but that does not mean that the money that was spent then was actually spent in vain. they were wrongly issued. our audit in the context of the annual report focuses on the verification of compliance. we are obliged to do so under the treaty, we must do so under the treaty, to check the legality and the accuracy of the calculations. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i think that is a very necessary and clear clarification. however, we also believe - and i have said this in my speech and i believe it is clear from the report - that the court of auditors' task is not only to deal with the question of compliance but also with the question of performance, and that the aspect of performance is becoming increasingly important. the vice-president of the commission has pointed out, and many of our special reports show, that it does not help if a road or a port or an airport is built correctly, but the building itself is meaningless. this is something that needs to be taken into account and addressed to a much greater extent in the context of the reviews, so that such things do not happen in the future, and that the funds are not only spent correctly but also wisely. the commission's examinations and activities must therefore also focus on this aspect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i fully understand the political need, given the enormously rigid european budget, which is basically a relatively inflexible budget over seven years, that when new challenges arise, suddenly the politicians have to decide to open up new sources of funding, new ideas and new instruments to address these challenges. but we must never lose sight of the fact that this constant creation of new financial instruments does not contribute to clarity, that it also involves risks, that it does not contribute to transparency. so we must not lose sight of the fact that at some point in the future - i hope in the not too distant future - we will also have to bring all of this together under one roof so that transparency is ultimately preserved. the subject of added value and value added, i need not say more about that. we also want to include more qualitative elements in the evaluation and we also expect the commission to take these qualitative elements into account more. for simplicity, this has been raised by mr liberadzki, mr ashworth and mr valli: this is a very crucial point. i'll say it again: simple rules are better. but if they are too simple, that is, if they no longer allow control in terms of meaning and performance, they are also not meaningful. this means that simplifying the rules must also be accompanied by a stronger examination of efficiency and what really comes out of it. this is a crucial prerequisite for simplification. it has to happen in one step and it has to happen. mr zdechovský and mr marinescu have pointed out that there have been positive developments in the past, and rightly so. i would like to make a brief point on mr pirinski's comment and also on what mrs von storch said, namely that in the coming days and weeks we will be delivering our opinion on both the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the efsi. i won't say anything about it now, but you can read it when it's finished. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i think there is no doubt about that from the point of view of the experts and the experts. i am very grateful to mr šoltes for once again emphasizing the role of the court. he has relevant experience of his own through his professional experience and work in this field. it really is: it is our job to put our finger in the wound, to identify risks as early as possible, to describe problems, but always with the aim that in the end consequences will be drawn from them and the situation will improve. and again, looking back, the steps are slower and harder at the moment. but looking back, i think that there is a clear positive change over the medium and long term. i think that's part of the honesty of saying it.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, osarugue, 16, is a young girl who left her family in nigeria in search of a better life in europe. a nigerian smuggler arranged for her to travel to europe and forced her to do forced labor to recover the money to pay for the trip. for many weeks this girl, working in libya, to reach the agreed sum, was forced to be sexually abused and exploited until she was finally able to get on this boat to reach the island of lampedusa. without water for hours and hours, unable to move, she and many other boys were crowded into a dark hold at the bottom of the boat. it took more than 12 hours before they were rescued by the italian coast guard. fellas, this girl's story is not an isolated one. sadly, it's the story of some 50 million girls and boys who have crossed the world's borders. more than half of them are girls and boys who have fled violence and insecurity. these children are refugees, displaced persons or internal migrants, but no matter where they come from or who they are, they are children first and foremost! we social democrats have made a formal request to the european commission for help in ensuring that unaccompanied minors, victims of the migration crisis, are adequately protected. and i expect a positive response from the commissioner, whom i respect very much. on the basis of the existing action plan for the protection of unaccompanied minors, we call for an approach that includes concrete measures for all children and not limited to asylum seekers, an approach based on the principle of non-discrimination as enshrined in the un convention. much more needs to be done, especially to protect and prioritise children on the basis of resettlement and to prohibit the arbitrary detention of children. i want to end with a quote from a man who is in the hearts of all of us, nelson mandela, who said, "there can be no more acute revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats children".
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, among the vulnerable groups, unaccompanied foreign minors are the most affected by the absence of a uniform reception system at european level, capable of guaranteeing both the protection and safeguarding of rights and adequate tools for those who have to take care of the reception. in italy, of the more than 14,000 foreign minors surveyed, more than 6,000 are unaccounted for. calabria and sicily are the frontline regions in italy with the highest number of foreign minors. in the first phase of reception, it is often the mayors of the municipalities who have the greatest legal responsibility for meeting the needs of minors, and they carry out this task amidst many difficulties in terms of economic and human resources and logistical resources. in order to reduce exposure to risks to health and psychophysical integrity and to better meet developmental and educational needs and opportunities, specific legislative instruments or measures should be proposed, based on best practices in childcare, which in particular facilitate and clarify the tasks, functions and competences of guardians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are about 20 000 unaccompanied minors who have arrived in europe via italy this year, compared with about 12 000 in 2015. a significant increase, however, finds the italian reception system inadequate to meet their needs, even the most basic and essential ones. this year alone, more than 5,000 children have been reported missing from shelters. we're talking about 28 kids a day becoming this invisible and, as a result, even more vulnerable to abuse, violence and exploitation. many of them find themselves confined indefinitely in centres from which they cannot leave, forced to live in inadequate and unsafe housing, without information about their rights and in total uncertainty about their fate. sicily is now home to some 5,000 foreign minors, a figure much higher than in other italian regions. as if that wasn't enough, the island's 400 unaccompanied alien child communities are in total collapse, with operators unpaid for a year and ready to open the doors to exit. it seems to me obvious that the european union must act decisively and without delay in the face of this situation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence and your sensitivity, mr commissioner, but too often in the debate on migration we have focused on the tragic situation of children, and in particular of unaccompanied children who often disappear into thin air and, without being registered or followed, continue to move, with their lights off, across europe, thus running the risk of violence and exploitation. commissioner, you yourself have said that we need a specific european strategy for migrant and unaccompanied minors. and the intergroup on the rights of the child, which i chair, has been asking for this for a long time. simplified procedures are needed to allow for rapid recognition and relocation. it is necessary that children stay in the hotspots for as short a period as possible and that reception centres comply with minimum child protection standards. the regions most exposed to migration flows need to be able to use structural funds to invest in childcare facilities and services and there is a need for safe and legal pathways to europe suitable for children and their families. in essence, the best interests of the child should guide european policies and specific actions to protect migrant children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the images of calais, where hundreds of children are living in desperate conditions, trying to jump on trucks to reach their families in the united kingdom, are still burning in our eyes. the same is true of the train station in como, where hundreds of people have camped all summer, trying to cross the swiss border every night and being constantly turned away, preventing them from applying for asylum when many of these children would have been entitled to family reunification. in italy and greece, childcare facilities are totally inadequate, leading to promiscuity and inadequate reception conditions. the guardian is often not named and there is still no european definition of this figure and his delicate role. the dublin reform proposal risks worsening the situation of minors by providing for double transfers and the possibility of sending them back to the first country where they applied, forgetting the 2013 judgment of the court of justice 648 on the best interests of the child. the detention of minors must be ended, their continuing education must be ensured and rapid and priority procedures for children in relocation and family reunification must be ensured. only by giving them a clear and certain perspective on their future can we prevent them from running away, hiding or ending up in the hands of organised crime. they can't pay for the slow and inefficient reception system! we have a great responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner. the global approach to migration must ensure that policies are in place to support and protect children. we have already spoken in april, giving clear directions to the commission and the member states on the way forward. we have chosen, we have called for access for children to legal, health, psychological care, housing, education, humanitarian mission, family reunification. children are a resource, not a burden. we cannot simply shoulder our responsibilities on the shoulders of volunteers and ngos who are working tirelessly to show the whole of europe the true face of solidarity. we do not want jungles, we do not want walls, we do not want barriers, we do not want roadblocks against the reception of 12 women and 8 children, 8 children guilty of believing in a better world. europe, this house, has already spoken, its voice cannot be ignored.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by expressing my thanks for your interventions. this only confirms how important the issue is for all of us and i am glad that we share this determination. as you know, the commission is employing a comprehensive approach to the protection of all children in migration, including, as i said in the beginning, unaccompanied minors. actions announced in february are being implemented and new actions have been and will continue to be identified as part of an ongoing process. we are now working in order to complete the implementation of the action plan on unaccompanied minors for the period 2010 to 2014, and we will evaluate and report on this by the end of the year. let me reiterate that the commission is committed to improving the situation of unaccompanied minors on the ground, and is acting on this commitment. operationally, including by fighting smugglers, but also legally through our proposed reforms. right now in greece and in italy we are offering financial and logistical support for improving the reception conditions for the children. we are also offering support to relocate unaccompanied children from greece and italy to other member states. in addition, we are monitoring compliance with eu law in terms of the reception conditions and standards offered to minors, as well as with the procedural safeguards stipulated for the benefit of children. our asylum reform is aimed at improving the conditions and protection safeguards for children – not lowering their standards. i count on parliament to support our proposals in the upcoming negotiations with the member states. our debate today proves what i said earlier: we are not debating or questioning the issue of protection of migrant children. we all agree on its necessity and the urgency to act.
in writing. the numbers of the humanitarian crisis we are experiencing are dramatic. and, as always, the children pay the biggest price. the most authoritative sources, such as unhcr, unicef, oxfam, are reporting a tragic situation. more than 50% of the refugees are children or young people under the age of 18, in the first 7 months of 2016 there were as many as 13,705 unaccompanied minors who landed in italy and then, most dramatically, in the first six months of 2016, 5,222 unaccompanied minors were declared "missing". the reception of minors cannot follow the same rules, times and procedures as that of adults. children need care, they need attention, they need psychological support, they need reassurance, they need to feel safe. europe is still the land of welcome, and we all remember the picture of emilia kamvisi, the "grandmother" of lesbos, giving milk to the newborn baby who had arrived on the island's shores. europe is proud of its 'grandmothers', its 'fishermen' and all the unlikely heroes who save the lives of thousands of people. but for children like the one in emilia's arms, europe must not only save their lives, it must offer them a future.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the operation which will lead to the liberation of mosul from the jihadists of the caliphate has begun. finally, we would say, if it were not for the fact that the disagreement which has prevented it so far still persists today and paints a bleak picture of the future of the whole middle east. the political and military influence of tehran over the iraqi government and the shared aspirations of the courageous kurds for self-determination are compounded by the unacceptable position of the turkish government, which has deployed troops on iraqi soil without the agreement of baghdad, thus violating its sovereignty. the silent statements by erdogan about the borders of turkey being fixed at sèvres and being reviewed, together with his desire not to be a spectator in the reconquest, suggest a dangerous expansionist will which we cannot ignore. we are doing the same with this resolution, which not only does not condemn such very serious facts, but does not even mention them. the american silence is very important in the run-up to the presidential elections. a quick capture of mosul is certainly a major victory to be celebrated at the end of the campaign, but it cannot be achieved at any cost and if the price is to create an easy corridor into syria for jihadists with the aim of further destabilising the country and worsening the situation of civilians, we, that price, cannot accept it. the choices of political players cannot, as happens all too often, ignore the suffering of civilians. our role as europe's humanitarian champions is not enough if it is not accompanied by a clear vision of the fate of the liberated territories. we support the creation through an inclusive process of new autonomous provinces for the nineveh plain, tal afar, sinjar and wherever else it is necessary to ensure security and democracy for minorities in their ancestral territories. we will not accept that the ashes and oil of mosul are sold at a shameful bargain table on the backs of its citizens, because mosul will eventually fall and i believe that it will fall soon, because the disproportion of forces on the ground is too great. it could have fallen long ago if the discord and the opposing selfishness had not been in the minds of the powers involved. recent history teaches us that in iraq the difficulty is not winning the war, the difficulty is certainly not losing the peace.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the information provided by the commissioner is scant and even a little ironic, as if we were dealing with a situation which, all in all, could be controlled. we are facing a situation which could turn into a sort of stalingrad of the east. god forbid! what are you doing? there will be house to house fighting, and anyone with even a superficial knowledge of isis's modus operandi can easily imagine what the resistance will be. they will use chemical weapons because, in the west's neglect, these warriors of allah are getting chlorine and iprite weapons. there are human shields inside, there are many christians inside and, by the way, there is already an activity of kidnapping entire populations from the areas around mosul who are being brought inside precisely to be used. what does europe have to say about this? what's he doing? nothing more than a vague, irenic attitude of an ngo. a europe that is absent, that cannot even tell us exactly how things stand, how long this siege will last, what risks there are of foreign fighters escaping, what measures are being taken at international level to prevent a world invasion of isis fighters ready to act, perhaps even here in europe, perhaps even here in brussels. you're not doing anything! you are helpless and you leave us helpless in the face of these risks!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that we have reached a decisive stage in the advance towards mosul, the last stronghold of daesh. well, in this picture, what's the point of doing? first of all, i think that the offensive on mosul must necessarily be accompanied by a humanitarian intervention which can not only save civilians, who risk being used as human shields by terrorists, but above all offer safe corridors and shelter to the displaced who are forced to flee the military action. secondly, we must know that if we want to safeguard the territorial integrity of iraq, we must secure the areas that will gradually be liberated and that international control would be useful because the risk, if the situation is not kept under control, is that clashes and tensions will reoccur. there is room for european leadership here and i think it is time to exercise it to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the offensive against the daesh jihadists in mosul, in northern iraq, seems to be making progress. it is a question of freeing a city of over a million people who live in dramatic conditions from ruthless occupation. the daesh militias, in order to resist and ensure their lives, have been forcing children and women to stay on the roofs of houses converted into bunkers to avoid air raids for days. there are fears of a full-blown humanitarian catastrophe. according to the un representative in iraq, peter hawkins, thousands of people are fleeing the mosul area, the scene of fighting. the conditions of children, crowded into refugee camps, are particularly precarious. europe and the international community must work to protect the civilians trapped in mosul and the surrounding villages and ensure that aid and humanitarian assistance reach the inhabitants of the nineveh plain as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in afghanistan - as has already been said by several colleagues - is, as we know, a very, very complicated, very difficult situation and one that is not likely to change. the brussels conference a few weeks ago finally gave a positive signal for the future of the afghans, for the future of the peace process, because here we can only be satisfied and proud, of course, of the generosity of the donor countries and also of the work done by the european union, which has put a significant figure into play. but it is good to be clear, as other colleagues before me have been, that we expect careful, careful, precise monitoring of this aid that will be sent, so that it can be used effectively for the benefit of afghans, especially women and young people, and for development. because what is absolutely clear is that all this cannot be translated into a surreptitious exchange to reduce the pressure of immigration on the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in belarus, the country described as the last dictatorship in europe, the opposition parties have finally elected two representatives to parliament in the last elections. for too many years the belarusian parliament was the only one in europe without opposition. the republic of belarus remains, unfortunately, an authoritarian regime, despite the calls of the international community. the elections held in 2010 were described by the oecd as neither free nor fair, and doubts remain about the last elections. the political prisoners are also a factor which is fuelling the harsh international criticism. in short, despite the need to facilitate attempts at dialogue in order to alleviate the difficult political situation and to lighten the burden on the citizens, belarus remains a non-democratic regime, in which human rights violations pose serious problems for facilitating dialogue with the european union, in the absence of respect for the democratic principles of civil liberties and human rights.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is admirable to hear from the commission that they are well aware of the situation in turkey today and at the same time continue to support an illegal agreement with turkey and visa liberalisation. so it means that there is full awareness that the real coup actually succeeded erdogan and the journalists of cumhuriyet newspaper are paying for it: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are pleased that the european parliament has taken the initiative to adopt this resolution. meanwhile, the statistics are growing, we get to 100,000 websites blocked, we get to a country that is now 151st in freedom of the press, 183 newspapers closed, 127 journalists arrested. i want to end this speech with the words of can dündar: "my office has two windows: one overlooks a cemetery, the other a courthouse. these are the two most visited places by journalists in turkey. soon a third window appeared, the one in the prison that was waiting for me". i would like to say to the european union and the commission that freedom of expression is a right and not a crime, and that it is the very essence of democracy. and if we do not say this forcefully to the turkish government, we will lose all credibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this parliament has called for greater freedom of the press and media in turkey. unfortunately, the events of last july have made the situation worse, with an even greater contraction of freedoms, in particular freedom of expression. some 2,500 journalists have lost their jobs since the coup attempt on july 15. reporters without borders reports that at least 110 journalists are in prison, 70 of them arrested after the coup and 150 are being reported as unarmed. in turkey, it is enough for investigators to suspect that you are affiliated with an illegal organization or that you have insulted the president of the republic to be sent to prison. respect for rights and freedoms in practice, and not just in words, remains vital for a country aspiring to join the european union. the european union must first of all work to ensure that european standards of democracy are guaranteed in this country.
in writing. after the failed coup, the situation of journalists in turkey is critical. many of them have been arrested without any evidence of criminal activity. i believe that the detention of journalists for the content of their articles and the closure of a very large number of news outlets are dangerous threats to the democracy of a country. the european union cannot stand by and watch, decisive action is needed to ensure that the fundamental rights of every human being are respected.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after we noted bitterly in this very chamber a year and a half ago the absence of an official position of parliament on the conference on the review of the non-proliferation treaty, parliament is now finally speaking out with a resolution, for the first time shared by the major political forces, to give our high representative a clear mandate to intervene in the disarmament and non-proliferation debate, which has reached a very delicate stage. in a context of further deterioration of global security, we can count on the success of the historic agreement with iran, thanks to the role played by federica mogherini, but the hope of reaching a global consensus on the issue of nuclear disarmament towards global zero seems now more than ever compromised. but we must continue to talk about it to keep it high on the international agenda. the august outcome document of the un open-ended working group, which calls for the convening of a conference in 2017 to negotiate a legal instrument for the abolition of nuclear weapons, is a very positive impulse. and today we ask high representative mogherini to work actively on the preparation of the conference.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to dedicate this important resolution of parliament to the 100,000 young people between the ages of 17 and 30 who have volunteered in europe and abroad for the european voluntary service over the past 20 years. but let me also dedicate this to the people who were hit again by the earthquake in italy this evening and to the many volunteers who are already there. in our oral question, the committee on culture and i thought it appropriate to celebrate the 20th anniversary of this initiative, asking the commission and the member states to create the most favourable conditions for the flourishing of the experience of volunteering throughout europe, as a fundamental dimension of freedom, responsibility of individuals or associations, but also as a concrete expression of those values which europe desperately needs, those of voluntary commitment to others, solidarity, friendship, intercultural and interreligious dialogue and active citizenship. we know that there are at least 100 million volunteers in europe today, of all ages and social and personal backgrounds, engaged in humanitarian, educational, educational, cultural, environmental and sporting activities. we know that in every disaster, humanitarian crisis, emergency, like the ones we are experiencing in europe and on our borders, the precious work of volunteers from non-profit associations and non-governmental organizations supports and often anticipates that of the institutions. we know that free community volunteering not only creates inclusion, social cohesion, but also innovation, citizenship skills, creates wealth. it is estimated to contribute to 5% of the union's gdp. the european voluntary service within erasmus+ sees over 5,000 young people leave each year and now other opportunities are also being added with citizens' europe, the european union volunteers for humanitarian aid, but we must also expand these opportunities in the structural funds. president juncker has announced the creation of a european solidarity corps, and i am sure that commissioner navracsics will speak to us about it, which is addressed to young people and which follows up on the proposal we have been making for a long time for the creation of a european civil service, alongside volunteering, on the basis of the pilot project already under way between the various countries, including my own. but it must be achieved with the active involvement of associations and additional resources. however, we must admit that, more than five years after the european year of volunteering, many of the requests made by european volunteering and in particular by the european voluntary centre have remained unanswered. there is no coordinated policy, there is still no point of contact, no information within the eu. we ask the commission to compare national legal frameworks, to draw up a european legal framework defining the status of volunteers, with rights and duties, which facilitates mobility, the recognition of skills acquired also in the framework of europass, also promoting volunteering in the member states and in academic education systems. we also ask the commission to address the recommendations of the political agenda for volunteering and the european volunteers' charter to those member states which have not yet legislated on the subject by establishing national volunteering plans. it is also urgent that in the new financial regulation the commission should recognise as part-financing in european projects the contribution of activities by volunteers, even if they are provided free of charge. but we must create the conditions necessary for the volunteering experience to become a shared and accessible experience for everyone, of all ages and personal circumstances, everywhere. the reconciliation of work and volunteering must therefore be possible and associations and centres of volunteering services must also be supported, with an appropriate legal and financial framework, for the essential actions: mentoring, training and organisation of volunteers. it is also essential that the experience gained abroad by volunteers can become an opportunity for growth for the local and national community. i was in rome for a meeting with volunteers who had this experience and one of the experiences that struck me most was that of disabled young people who had volunteered "themselves" and who asked to be understood more and more in the service. finally, commissioner navracsics, i ask you to launch a major information and awareness-raising campaign, in conjunction with the european voluntary association, to highlight the civil and social value of voluntary work. it is very important that all young people have this opportunity, that it can become part of the school/educational curriculum as in some countries and that the experiences of comparison are also multiplied when they return from international, european experiences, because this enriches local communities, creates bridges and not walls and constitutes a practical experience of european and world citizenship.
the economic crisis, the sovereign debt crisis and the prevalence of a single liberal, neoliberal mindset have in recent years pushed many european states towards gradual cuts in public services and large-scale privatisation. this solution is proving more and more unsuccessful from an ethical, economic, social and political point of view, creating a poorer, more unjust europe and fuelling a revolt that is now threatening to overwhelm the union. if we want to save the construction of europe, we must return to the founding values and european volunteering embodies these founding values, solidarity, cooperation and the direct participation of citizens, in an exemplary way. as a journalist, i have witnessed extraordinary stories of volunteering in my country and in europe, in the face of natural disasters, but also extraordinary difficulties in this field. we are celebrating 20 years of european volunteering and we are right to celebrate and we are right to be happy about the 100 000 volunteers, but we know that they could be five times as many, 10 times as many if we invested more. this report is a good step forward, but there are still some things missing, there is no common european legislation, and above all there are no adequate funds to develop this phenomenon. there are great difficulties in cross-border volunteering. you have to invest in this. we must remember that every euro invested in voluntary work, as several colleagues have said, produces an extraordinary economic effect as well as an extraordinary civic and moral effect, which is no less important than the economic effect. it helps young people develop skills that are really needed in the world of work. there is a lot of talk about corporate intervention programmes in schools that are not as effective as the voluntary sector. it cannot be said that all the investments that pass and are approved in this house have the same extraordinary effect, so i would invite the commissioner to ask for more investments, more communication on this area. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i am personally fighting for the rights of disabled people, together with other members of this house, in every sector, including other sectors of education, in the new audiovisual regulations, as my colleagues in the committee on culture know, so i am in full agreement that these rights should be guaranteed as much as possible.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the other co-signatories of the joint resolution, which contains a number of points of merit which are shared and worthy of support. however, without the procedural and timing constraints, a better result would have been achieved. i hope that in future this matter will be dealt with with greater procedural clarity and that it will be given greater visibility in the agenda. i would like to begin by quoting the sentence in the resolution which i think is probably the most significant at the end of paragraph 3: "stresses that volunteers should never be considered and used as a substitute labour force". this is a fundamental point, especially at a time of continuing economic and social crisis such as the one we are facing in europe. to forget this would risk draining the undoubted and high added value of volunteering of its meaning, making it simply a politically correct expression, used to justify situations and initiatives lacking the necessary public support. the second is to restore and promote a framework of values in which the sacralization of monetary gain at any cost and individualism without solidarity are replaced by a renewed sense of service to the community. in other words, activism. our movement, the five star movement, which was born on st francis' day, puts activism at the heart of our political action. we don't want anyone left behind. i also believe that there are two preconditions for voluntary work to be ethically and politically acceptable. first of all: the preparation of clear public policies and adequate financial resources, in accordance with: the existence of decent material conditions for all citizens, i.e. work, social protection systems, so that everyone has the necessary material resources to undertake voluntary activities. it is clear from these principles that our society must open up to and encourage volunteering as a noble expression of an essential human need and as a form of active citizenship that is at the heart of community life. volunteering therefore seems to be able to open up a positive path within european society. however, we must set a ceiling on the use of volunteers if we are not to fall into a flagrant contradiction with ourselves, since we must never regard volunteers as a substitute labour force. such a warning then points to a significant sociological fact: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives in this area. this should make us think, make us work to remedy those shortcomings whose causes must be identified and addressed. also, propaganda and overly rigid rules are not compatible with volunteering. volunteering is a choice you make in silence. let me express my solidarity with all those who have spent the night in the streets because of the earthquake that is striking italy.
the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should: i would just like to know whether - in the face of a speech, this is really ideological, i feel the need to say that perhaps we have not understood, here we are talking about a transnational experience, a european experience. it may have escaped anyone's notice that for twenty years there has been a magnificent european, transnational and international programme, in which many young french people have taken part, and i am sorry to disappoint mr bilde, but it is considered a project which, in the minds of all the citizens who take part, quietly combines the national dimension, personal identity and international european membership. it may have escaped some people that we have dual citizenship, italian, french or hungarian and european. it may be overlooked that the transnational, european and international dimension is very much to the liking of all young people, including the french.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this time of a serious crisis of values throughout europe, a sign of hope is being sent to us by young people, by the thousands of young people who take up the path of volunteering each year. this parliament strongly supported the establishment of the european year of volunteering in 2011, an initiative which has not only helped to create greater awareness of the added value of volunteering, but has also allowed for the creation and revision of numerous national and legal frameworks on volunteering in europe. this year the european voluntary service is celebrating its 20th anniversary. over the past 20 years, we have supported 100,000 volunteers, 100,000 young people who have embarked on a path of solidarity and who have responded with concrete actions to social, humanitarian and environmental challenges. the european voluntary service programme has benefited not only the individuals and organisations involved, but also society as a whole. it's time to take stock. we are proud of the progress we have made, but we are not going to stop there. we call on the commission to promote a more coordinated european policy on volunteering, including through a single point of contact which will improve access to programmes and the interaction of initiatives. not all member states have set up national volunteering programmes with adequate resources. our encouragement is directed at improving information on volunteering opportunities, as well as creating national civil service platforms and promoting the dissemination of good practices from the most advanced countries, i am thinking of my country, italy, in order to encourage the creation of a european civil service to complement the existing opportunity. i thank the 100,000 young people who took part, and i thank the european voluntary service, and i thank the volunteers who have already rushed to the earthquake-stricken areas in the marches and umbria.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank president costa for the initiative and i agree that we should dedicate this day, this debate of ours, to the thousands of people who have been affected by a terrible earthquake in central italy. as the commissioner said, the initiative presented to us by president juncker to create a european solidarity corps which can truly foreshadow a european civil service is important. in the meantime, however, and alongside this, we believe that a common framework is needed, a common frameworkboard, to better coordinate european volunteering in the individual countries, to extend it to all age groups, to recognise a number of elements that allow it to work better. because, as many colleagues have said, the aim is also to consolidate a common european identity and i believe that nothing is more useful in consolidating this identity than getting to know one another in a civic volunteering activity and thus creating bonds of solidarity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago another terrible earthquake struck central italy and hundreds of volunteers have already volunteered to help the people affected. volunteering is one of the highest expressions of solidarity, strengthens active citizenship and makes a significant contribution to the dissemination of european values. i am in favour of the creation of european union solidarity bodies which can provide support in other european countries to people affected by natural disasters, such as an earthquake, a flood or even the arrival of migrants. the civil service provided by volunteers who voluntarily and generously decide to donate their time and effort to others must be encouraged and protected, but the professionalising aspect of volunteering must also be enhanced. volunteers must be guaranteed quality mentoring throughout their employment, both to make their skills available in difficult situations and to ensure that the skills acquired are useful for integration into the world of work.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank ms costa for raising this issue in this parliament. it gives us a very good opportunity to discuss all the important aspects of volunteering. there is a growing awareness now of the importance of volunteering. the long list of discontent demonstrates this fact and i think this discussion was a very fruitful and useful discussion for us. when developing the concept and the scheme of the european voluntary service we can put all your remarks into the further drafts of the european voluntary service schemes. let me emphasise one thing. volunteering is not an ideological issue for me and i think this has been well demonstrated by the fact that we have a lot of supportive remarks from all the political groups in parliament. this again demonstrates that this is a consensual issue and we have to do more in developing volunteering at local level, regional level, national level, and also at the european level. what is the fundamental mission of the european voluntary service? it is not building up a homogeneous european voluntary scheme. it is about help, it is about solidarity, and it is about charity. the fundamental mission of the european voluntary service is to help local initiatives and we do exactly that. we have a lot of projects which help local stakeholders, ngos, local activists in implementing their own initiatives and we help young people to be mobile. we support mobility schemes to acquire skills and to acquire knowledge in each other’s member states. the second, and probably the most important, aspect of volunteering is acquiring skills, and that could be very important in tackling youth unemployment. that is why, when we review the european qualifications framework, we will put volunteering skills into the european qualifications framework and acknowledge those skills which could be acquired during volunteering. i think this is quite important because it can help us to promote social cohesion, to give one more chance to those people who have a different social background and probably cannot simply enter the labour market, but by volunteering they can acquire those very important skills which can help them to get better job opportunities. last, but not least, we are aware of the fact that the european voluntary service concentrates mostly on young people but, as i just mentioned in my introductory remarks, we are working on broadening the scope and giving the opportunity for older people to be included in our schemes and giving them the opportunity to work as volunteers in the framework of the european voluntary service.
in writing. today we are celebrating 20 years of the european voluntary service. this ambitious programme, which started as a pilot project in 1996, has so far involved as many as 100,000 young people who have chosen to invest their energy and time in solidarity projects free of charge. the young people who choose them, with a time commitment of 2 weeks to 12 months, receive financial support to cover the costs of transport, food and accommodation, as well as medical insurance, motivated by the deep desire to devote themselves to the other, to those in need, to those who have less. supporting such mobility is not only important to enable those who wish to do so, regardless of economic conditions, to volunteer, but is also a way in which the european union can help rediscover its deepest civic and human vocation. at this time of crisis of values, it is of paramount importance to invest in youth integration and mobility projects and to promote the exchange of best practices between member states. in this way, as pope francis has said, europe can rediscover its unity, rediscover itself and overcome the barriers and walls that divide it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, young people are a source of strength and energy, and europe and the member states must invest in them through long-term structured strategies which can have an impact not only in terms of active participation and social inclusion, as the report emphasizes, but also and above all in terms of employment, training and self-employment. developing effective strategies, however, means putting significant financial resources in place to create opportunities for young people to express their ideas, skills and talents. europe must be more courageous in this respect, because investing in young people is investing in the future of europe itself. in this connection, i believe it is essential, at european, national and regional level, to ensure that the various european programmes dealing with youth policies are communicated, implemented and coordinated more effectively. it is only by setting clear objectives and by carefully and coordinatedly managing the instruments at our disposal that we will be able to give a concrete response to the demands of young people, also to avoid the risk of social passivity and marginalisation.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i wish to thank the committee on culture and education and especially the rapporteur, mrs bocskor, for her excellent report, which follows up on the joint council and commission report regarding the eu youth strategy. i would also like to thank all the participants for their very valuable remarks in that debate. thanks to the joint report, we defined our new shared priorities in the field of youth, which all contribute to the current top priorities of the eu. i am very pleased that the european parliament is stressing the importance of the eu youth strategy. it is indeed an essential framework that has proved useful for member states and for young people. the mid—term evaluation of the eu youth strategy conducted for the years 2010-2015 shows many positive impacts of european cooperation in the youth field. with the eu youth strategy work plan for 2016—2018 we have a focused cooperation agenda which deals with important issues: the need for increased social inclusion of all young people, stronger youth participation in democratic and civic life, and an easier transition of young people from youth to adulthood. your report also stresses the importance of the structured dialogue with young people. i believe that this tool is very useful to engage with young people. for example, more than 67 000 young people participated in the consultation on the evaluation of youth policy cooperation in the eu launched during the summer. however, there is room for improvement. to this end, i want to promote bottom—up mechanisms, such as the one developed with my one million outreach project and the new narrative for europe, where young people from a broader range of backgrounds make their voice heard and participate. your report focuses on investing in young people through the creation of quality and secure jobs, more mobility, more apprenticeship and a stronger focus on key competences such as digital skills and entrepreneurship. i particularly welcome the emphasis the report places on promoting civic education and a set of soft competences that will contribute to personal development and will ensure young people’s engagement in society, critical thinking and languages, for instance. for this to happen, europe has to optimise its education assistance and fully exploit all aspects of education, both formal and non-formal. europe also needs to get better at linking the worlds of education and the job market. cooperation with education and training providers is also an integral part of the youth guarantee. schools’ central role in supporting its implementations stems from their ability to ensure that pupils make the most of the opportunities at school, signal where there is a risk of early exits, and provide support to students on professional pathways available to them. we need to continue and step up our efforts to address youth unemployment. from the commission’s side, we want to continue supporting member states and particularly the hardest hit regions. that is why we have proposed to further boost the youth employment initiative with eur 1 billion for 2017—2020, which should be matched by at least another eur 1 billion from the european social fund. this will make it possible to support more young people after 2020 in member states most affected by youth unemployment. national funding to boost youth unemployment also needs to be prioritised in member states’ budgets, as the european structural and investment funds and the youth employment initiative alone are not sufficient to overcome the problem. finally, your report rightly stresses the importance of supporting and recognising youth voluntary activities as a form of non-formal learning. the commission could not agree more. this is why we are strengthening youth volunteering in all its forms, not least by launching the european solidarity corps in the very year of the twentieth anniversary of the european voluntary service. the corps will allow even more young people in europe to get this life experience and to make a valuable contribution to our society. we aim to have 100 000 young people signed up by 2020. let me end by once again thanking parliament and the rapporteur for the very valuable input and strong support for our joint efforts in this field.
in writing. the human and social capital represented by young people is the european union's main resource. although the member states have competence in youth matters, the eu plays the key role of coordination, guidance and support. many young people are struggling to find quality employment, and this hinders their achievement of autonomy. i believe that the open method of coordination adopted by the eu is appropriate but not yet sufficient to frame concrete youth policies. greater and more intensive cooperation between the different actors is needed to pursue the priorities defined in the european youth strategy in practice. the eu structured dialogue between policy-makers, young people and their representatives is an essential listening tool to influence ongoing national dialogues. member states must make every effort to spread the eu programmes and their funding opportunities among young people. a europe that invests in young people will certainly be a better europe.
in writing. the so-called millennials, born in the last two decades of the last century, face enormous problems, primarily those related to inclusion in the world of work and, as a consequence, also social inclusion. a report on the eu youth strategy should therefore take this as the starting point and primary objective of any type of intervention, and not rest on business as usual policies which have clearly not had sufficient effect. for this reason, the strategy identified, while not stating anything wrong, cannot be considered satisfactory. it is essential that the institutions send a strong and clear signal at a time when youth unemployment is on the rise.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to implement a comprehensive strategy of generational renewal, it is essential that the member states give young farmers a real prospect by making full use of the aid provided under the first and second pillars of the cap. to support agricultural employment, investment in new risk and crisis management tools is needed to limit the negative effects of price volatility. short supply chains, linking farmers and local producers, can stimulate job creation in rural areas, and quality schemes, geographical indications and organic farming can be important opportunities for the development of the agri-food sector and thus for potential job creation in rural areas. it is desirable that the cap post 2020 includes modernisation and investment instruments that ensure competitiveness in rural areas by focusing on agri-food, tourism, energy and services. congratulations to eric andrieu on the great report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to inform the house that another tremendous earthquake struck central italy last night, in the same areas as the one that struck on 24 august. the earthquake also hit the city of rome, the foreign ministry was evacuated. many italian citizens are on the streets, they are out of their homes. fortunately, only one died of a heart attack. and since the solidarity of european citizens on the occasion of the earthquake of 24 august helped those people a great deal, i ask this parliament to send a message of solidarity to my fellow citizens, to our fellow european citizens who have been struck by another tremendous earthquake.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has proposed postponing the discharge for the council for the eighth consecutive year. the main reason for the referral is that the council's expenditure is not subject to the same control procedures as those applied to the other institutions. the council does not communicate the annual report on expenditure to parliament, which undermines transparency for the public. i think that is unfair and undemocratic and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of not granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a crucial step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the structure of the union. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report on the postponement of the discharge for the 2014 budget for the council and the european council. for years parliament has been asking the council for full figures on the implementation of the budget, but has received little cooperation from this institution. in view of the lack of transparency regarding budgetary and accounting data, parliament decided to refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report on which the vote on the postponement of the discharge is being taken is balanced and contains criticisms and points of view on the european council and the council which i consider to be shared. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament decided, by 633 votes to 10, with no abstentions, to postpone the granting of a discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2007 is based on the principle of the budgetary principle of the budgetary principle. this is unacceptable and undermines the reputation of the eu institutions. they call on the council to provide the necessary information and to adopt a code of conduct as soon as possible in order to ensure the integrity of the institution. they also call on the commission to participate in the eu transparency register and to develop detailed guidelines for the fight against corruption. they stress that effective budgetary control requires cooperation between parliament and the council. parliament also recalled that transparency and control of public accounts are general democratic principles which the union cannot derogate from and that the discharge procedure is part of the concept of representative democracy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because i believe that effective budgetary control requires cooperation between parliament and the council, as stated in the resolution of 28 april 2016. however, parliament is not yet in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge. article 335 tfeu states that 'the union shall be represented by each of the institutions, in accordance with their administrative autonomy, in matters relating to the functioning of the respective institution' and that, consequently, taking into account article 55 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 (the 'financial regulation'), the institutions are individually responsible for the implementation of their budgets. the council continues to take no position on the observations made by parliament in its discharge resolution of 28 april 2016 on the trend of the previous years towards an increase in under-utilisation and carry-overs of commitments. both the european council and the council do not send their annual activity reports to parliament, and this is certainly damaging to the reputation of the eu institutions. moreover, contrary to what parliament has recommended in its recent discharge resolutions, the budgets of the european council and the council have not yet been separated.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposed, in the first instance, to postpone the discharge to the council. the question now is whether or not to vote for the final discharge. the report by mr czarnecki confirms that parliament is not in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge and therefore calls for no discharge to be given to the council: it is important to remember that the european parliament's refusal to grant discharge is politically significant but unfortunately has no legal consequences. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ it is with great regret that i have to decline the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2000. the reason for this decision was that the institutions concerned had not replied to the questions put by the ep. it is at least extraordinary that out of 27 requests from parliament, the council provides justification on three issues, and it is also astonishing that there is no information on the funds entrusted to the european council and the council, whose budgets have not yet been divided. it is also a profound lack of respect for the citizens that there is no breakdown of the costs of buildings or the state of progress of building projects with a clear breakdown of the costs incurred. i therefore call on the council, for the reasons mentioned above, to join the eu register for transparency and accountability as soon as possible, as there is a serious breach of the obligations laid down in the treaties. the latter certainly require a joint revision of the financial regulation to clarify the aims and processes of the discharge procedure itself, but until then they require compliance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council and the attached resolution, as the european council and the council have not yet taken action on the observations made by the european parliament in its resolution of 28 april 2016, nor have they sent the annual report on their activities and the other required reports on the state of play of real estate projects in the european union to parliament. in addition, the council has not answered 24 of the 27 questions submitted by the committee on budgetary control for the year 2014, so parliament can only declare that it is not in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are three main points in this report that i would like to highlight. the first concerns the unfair and disproportionate suspension of the esi funds. secondly, on the challenges of migration and refugees, some progress has been made, but more needs to be done. i welcome the commission's position on the inclusion of budgetary flexibility in this regard, although it is obviously short-term oriented. more needs to be done in the long term beyond increasing the funds for the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. the adoption of the emergency support instrument is also important, as it has achieved good results in the context of humanitarian needs in the countries of arrival of refugees and migrants. in fact, it could be done in a structural way, by intervening in the european research and rescue fund together with a planned and adequate budget for frontex and the european border and coast guard. finally, it is important to support the european semester guidelines on investment, innovation and quality job creation, ensuring fiscal policies towards sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution accompanying the postponement of the discharge as it contains critical proposals concerning the lack of transparency of the council and the european council in the management of their housing policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council, in defence of the prerogatives of the european parliament under the treaties and its important role in exercising public control over expenditure financed by the eu budget, and therefore by european taxpayers. the council, by not responding to or following up on the european parliament's report last april, has again turned a deaf ear to legitimate requests for transparency and clarification, delegitimising our institution. the parliament's demands for separate budgets between the council and the european council, for greater transparency in the management of the real estate assets, for the presentation of the annual report and for more information on the problem of under-utilisation are acceptable and deserve to be welcomed: parliament, as a body elected by the citizens, and also as a budgetary authority, must be able to exercise, together with the council, a public scrutiny of the use of union resources in a spirit of loyal institutional cooperation. i believe that this is the only way for parliament to grant discharge for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that all institutions must be transparent and accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them. given that the union is represented by each of its institutions on the basis of their administrative autonomy and given the proposal under consideration, i should like to give my opinion in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report recalls that the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and the financial regulation of the european institutions confer on the european parliament prerogatives relating to the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. i would stress that all the union institutions should strive to be as transparent as possible and should be fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the use of the funds entrusted to them. due to a number of outstanding issues, the european parliament has decided not to grant the european council and the council of the eu discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii. i too voted in favour of this decision, hoping that the institutions will provide as soon as possible comprehensive and detailed answers in the interests of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ for four consecutive years, the court of auditors has delivered a significant opinion on the regularity of budgetary operations in eniac. in addition, the audit studies carried out have three different methodologies of performance, which do not allow for an overall assessment and comparison. i have voted against the discharge because of the lack of sufficient evidence and although i support the content of the report, i am against it.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a crucial step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the structure of the union. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report giving discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 contains strong criticisms which have convinced me not to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ parliament gives discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. acknowledges that the joint undertaking's accounts for the period from 1 january to 26 june 2014 present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows; parliament is concerned, however, that the court of auditors has delivered a strong opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on which the accounts are based, as the administrative agreements concluded with the national funding authorities (nfas) do not contain practical arrangements for carrying out ex post audits. parliament noted that it was not possible to draw any conclusions on the effective functioning of the ex post audits and called on ecsel to provide reasonable assurances as to the legality and regularity of the operations, deplored the lack of information available on contributions in kind and cash contributions and called on the court to include in its future reports specific provisions on the evaluation procedure and the level of contributions in kind and cash.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as the accounts of the joint undertaking for the reference period faithfully present the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 26 june 2014. the accounts shall be audited by the court of auditors in accordance with the principles laid down in the financial regulation. however, the court's report shows that the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audit reports submitted by the national funding authorities concerning the costs of the completed projects. due to the different methodologies used by the nfa, it was not possible to draw conclusions on the effectiveness of the functioning of the ex post audits. these did not allow the joint undertaking to calculate a weighted error rate or a residual error rate. according to the court's report, the final budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 comprises commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 250.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the period 1 january to 26 june 2014, gave for the fourth consecutive year a noteworthy opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts. furthermore, following an evaluation of the audit strategies of three national funding authorities, it was not possible to draw conclusions on the effective functioning of the ex post audits due to the different methodologies used. these shortcomings led to the non-discharge in the first instance: as the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking were merged in 2014 to create the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' (itc ecsel), these shortcomings cannot be addressed in any way (in fact eniac no longer exists). for this reason, while supporting the content of the resolution under consideration, we voted together with the m5s delegation against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i give discharge to the executive director of the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget, given the importance of the implementation of a joint technology initiative (jti) on nanoelectronics. it is a research programme aimed at enhancing the integration and miniaturization of devices and consequently increasing their functionality. eniac is therefore a public-private partnership, bringing together the european commission and the european states and the states associated with aeneas, the association representing research and development players in the field of nanoelectronics (corporations, smes, research institutes and universities) in europe. the eu must be a leader in cutting-edge manufacturing in a globalised world where the volumes produced by emerging countries seem to leave european firms no room for competition. the 2014 budget of eniac provided for commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 250, in line with the forecasts, but i am concerned about the strong assessment of the court of auditors in its report on the legality and regularity of eniac's operations. i therefore hope that clarifications will be provided as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in view of the positive opinion of the court of auditors and in the absence of serious irregularities and errors, i considered it appropriate to approve the document in question.
in writing. ‒ eniac is a very important player in promoting public-private investment in nano-electric technologies in europe. in particular, synergistic coordination between resources, eu framework programme and national r & d funds, and universities, private and local authorities, is needed in a key area of innovation in europe. this report supports the legitimacy of the statements concerning the results of operations and cash flows for the period considered. it is also emphasised that the national procedures concerning the legality and regularity of the transactions are defined as a reasonable assurance under the joint undertaking. i therefore vote in favour of this text, and i appreciate the legitimacy and regularity of the discharge operations carried out by eniac.
in writing. - i vote against the resolution. although there are some positive points, the text is not sufficiently incisive and accompanies the decision to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my support for the proposal for a european parliament decision on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a decision gives a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. i welcome the information and reassurance provided by ecsel. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors delivered a judgment with observations on the regularity of the budgetary operations of artemis. in addition, the audit studies carried out show three different methodologies of performance, which do not allow for an overall assessment and comparison, and it was also found that the company did not comply with the internal control rules related to the financial legislation. i have voted against the discharge because of the lack of sufficient information and although i support the content of the report, i am against it.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a crucial step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the structure of the union. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report giving discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the artemis joint undertaking does not yet provide adequate guarantees of transparency, and i therefore did not intend to support this report and grant the discharge by voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ parliament gives discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the artemis joint undertaking and the eniac joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of its accounts for the financial year 2014. acknowledges from the joint undertaking that the accounts of the joint undertaking for the period 1 january to 26 june 2014 present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking; is concerned, however, that the court of auditors has given a strong opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts, as the administrative agreements concluded with the national funding authorities (nfas) do not contain practical arrangements for the carrying out of ex post audits. parliament called on the joint undertaking to provide evidence that the implementation of the national procedures provides a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions and noted that the joint undertaking had not taken any measures with regard to certain internal control rules relating to information and financial reporting, noting that this was however due to the merger between eniac and artemis and that in the meantime the ecsel itc had made considerable progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the period 1 january to 26 june 2014 shows that the accounts and the related transactions attributable to the joint undertaking are reliable. the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various fields of application. the maximum union contribution to the joint undertaking for the whole decade is eur 420 000 000, to be charged to the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the financial contributions of the artemis member states should instead be at least 1,8 times the union's financial contribution, while the in-kind contributions of the research and development organisations participating in the projects for the duration of the joint undertaking should be equal to or higher than the contribution of the public entities.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the joint undertaking's annual accounts, had expressed a strong opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on which the accounts are based, as the administrative agreements concluded with the national funding authorities regarding the audit of the declarations of expenditure for projects did not contain practical arrangements for carrying out ex post audits: it was therefore not possible to draw conclusions on the effective functioning of the ex post audits due to the different methodologies used, which did not allow the joint undertaking to calculate a weighted error rate or a residual error rate. the joint undertaking had also failed to take any action on certain internal control rules relating to financial information and disclosure. these shortcomings led to the non-discharge in the first instance: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor, the appointment of the european data protection supervisor and the appointment of the european data protection supervisor. for this reason, while supporting the content of the resolution, we voted together with the m5s delegation against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge for the 2014 budget of the artemis joint undertaking, and with this vote i want to reiterate my full openness to joint technological initiatives, i.e. modern mechanisms for the execution of research programmes under the seventh framework programme of the european union. these are examples of long-term public-private partnerships implemented as joint ventures on the basis of article 171 of the ec treaty, which states that 'the community may set up joint ventures or any other structure necessary for the better execution of research and technological development programmes'. i therefore approve the closure of the artemis accounts despite the strong opinion expressed in the court of auditors' report on the legality and regularity of the operations, to which must be added the inadequate quality of the audit reports received from the national financing authorities (afn) concerning the costs of the completed projects. i am also sorry that there are no internal control rules for financial information and reporting on the valuation of assets, no sound internal control system and no clear structure for internal audit itself. in any case, it is an ambitious project that will define a common strategic research agenda capable of attracting investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, following the opinions of the court of auditors on the reliability of the accounts for the year 2014 and on the legality and regularity of the transactions, which certified the correctness of the expenditure incurred and recorded by artemis.
in writing. ‒ the artemis landfill has lights and shadows which are important to highlight. on the one hand, parliament expressed concern that the joint undertaking had not adopted measures concerning certain rules on information and financial reporting, the evaluation of activities and internal control and audit systems. part of these problems have been addressed by ecsel, which was created by the merger of eniac and artemis, and which has made progress on internal control systems and the establishment of an internal audit structure. on the other hand, it is emphasised that the data on the effectiveness of the guarantee systems are good with regard to the ex post audit strategy. i therefore vote in favour of this text, welcoming the progress made in national procedures but expressing the same concerns as the discharge with regard to internal control.
in writing. - i vote against the resolution, which is not sufficiently incisive.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, i would like to express my support for the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on the discharge to be given to the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided to the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, i am in favour of parliament's approval of the proposal for a discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the internal audit activity identified major risk factors and the need for more robust controls in terms of management and change control. the court of auditors also pointed out the risks involved in the system, particularly in the context of procurement procedures. to address the above issues the new administration has increased the cost estimate, raising a high concern that any delay would cause significant increases in time and cost. in the absence of sufficient evidence, i have voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the budget discharge procedure is an important moment in the institutional life of the european union. the european parliament, the only institution elected by universal suffrage, decides on the recommendation of the council whether or not to grant final approval for the implementation of the budget for a given financial year. this is a crucial step which also provides an opportunity to address specific recommendations to the institutions and agencies which make up the structure of the union. following the instructions of the committee on budgetary control (cont), i have today decided to vote in favour of the marinescu report granting discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical insights which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament gives discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014 and approves the closure of the accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking's annual accounts present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows. parliament noted that the new director-general of the iter organisation had presented to the iter council an action plan containing specific measures to overcome the main obstacles to the development of the iter project and noted that the new acting director had drawn up an action plan for the joint undertaking which was broadly in line with that of the iter organisation. the joint undertaking's management board has given its full approval to this action plan and since march 2015 the iter organisation and the joint undertaking have been implementing and closely following the action plans and therefore invites the joint undertaking to report on the implementation of these action plans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the report drawn up by the court of auditors shows that the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 present the financial position of the joint undertaking correctly as at 31 december 2014. the final financial envelope available for 2014 comprises commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations equivalent to eur 567 600 000. the utilization rates for commitment and payment appropriations are 100 and 88.5% respectively. it is also noted that the implementation rate for the payment appropriations entered in the initial budget for 2014 is 73%. the conclusions of the iter council of 15 and 16 june 2016 confirmed that the iter project is moving in the right direction, allowing for a valid and realistic proposal to be made regarding the timing and associated costs. the updated integrated calendar for the iter project, which sets the date for the first plasma in september 2025, was also approved. so far all the project stages have been completed on time, if not ahead of schedule.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the joint undertaking's internal audit function had carried out a review of the monitoring of the execution of the contracts, highlighting the existence of important risk factors such as unrealistic timing of projects and delays in the implementation of activities. the company had difficulty effectively limiting some of these risks, as they were attributable to the now changed iter organisation. finally, the review identified the need for more robust controls and process changes, in particular with regard to management and change control, financial management of contracts and the management of non-compliance situations. i voted with the m5s delegation against the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the granting of discharge for the 2014 budget to a public-private partnership event with such an impact is a matter for serious reflection and requires careful analysis. i think that there is nothing but a certain enthusiasm and a certain guarantee in voting for such a measure because of the court of auditors' report. the joint undertaking's annual accounts present the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows are in line with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial regulation. the final financial envelope available for 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 1 168 800 000 and payment appropriations of eur 567 600 000. to clarify, iter is a global collaborative project that aims to become the world's largest experimental fusion plant and is designed to demonstrate the scientific and technological feasibility of fusion, the process that powers the sun and stars. fusion research is aimed at developing a source of energy that is safe, unlimited and environmentally responsible. iter will also provide a stimulus for new jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, following the opinions of the court of auditors on the reliability of the 2014 accounts and on the legality and regularity of the transactions, which certified the correctness of the expenditure incurred and recorded by the director of the european joint undertaking for iter.
in writing. ‒ i think it is important to highlight that the court of auditors has drawn up a very positive report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking in terms of transactions and cash flows for the year. at the same time, it is positive that important progress has been made in the management programmes, the planned costs and the timetable. there also appears to be good cooperation between the iter organisation and national agencies to ensure that the programme and the objectives are met. i therefore vote in favour of the text, noting the positive aspects of the implementation of the programme and the management of funds and resources, as well as the management organisation, as drawn up by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ considering that the objectives set at the iter council meeting of 18 and 19 november 2015 have been largely achieved and that four of the six milestones assigned to fusion for energy (f4e) for 2016 have already been achieved, with regard to the proposal for a european parliament decision on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, i would like to make a positive statement.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution welcomes the conclusions of the iter council of 15 and 16 june 2016, which confirmed that the iter project is currently moving in the right direction. i consider that the european parliament should grant the director of the european joint undertaking iter discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say that i voted in favour of this resolution to express my closeness, above all to the iraqi people, to stress the right of displaced people to return to their lands and to have their rights recognized, thus protecting the chaldeans, the syrians, the assyrians and all the indigenous christian communities. two figures tell us how many christians in iraq have suffered prolonged discrimination: in 2003 alone, there were over 1.5 million, today the christian community is down to 200,000. they are truly sacrificial victims of conflict. of course, and i also strongly emphasize what the resolution says, to fight firmly against the further advance of the jihadist ideology of isis is certainly a precondition for pacifying the region and guaranteeing it a stable and prosperous future.
in writing. ‒ the situation in some regions of iraq, particularly in mosul, has reached a critical point. i firmly believe that the people in those areas have a right to live in better conditions and above all i believe that it is very important to give the displaced people a home and that this should be a priority for the iraqi government. however, i believe that the continued use of arms is aggravating the tragic conditions in which the people of those places are already forced to live, and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ mosul, iraq's second largest city, has always been a multiethnic reality where the sunni arab majority has lived peacefully alongside chaldeans, kurds, yazidis and turkmen. for two years now, it has been in the hands of daesh, which has imposed a climate of terror, persecution and violence in a vast area including the nineveh plain, tal afar and sinjar. the iraqi army has launched an operation to take the city and surrounding areas from the control of the terrorists, an action carried out jointly by the global coalition against isis, the peshmerga forces and the popular mobilization forces. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i share, strongly supports this operation as a decisive step towards ending the reign of terror imposed by daesh. the text calls on regional and international actors not to obstruct military action and to act in full respect of iraqi sovereignty. after the liberation of mosul, the commitment must be to continue to fight to prevent the spread of islamist ideologies that act as theological and political incitement for the crimes perpetrated by isis.
in writing. ‒ the resolution analysing the situation in northern iraq and mosul is well structured and balanced. i share the condemnation of the genocide against the christian population and other minorities living in iraqi territory by isis. islamic terrorists must be fought and stopped as soon as possible. for all these reasons, i intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supports the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isis, seeing it as a decisive element in the global effort to defeat isis permanently. it reiterates its full support for the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of iraq and calls for these to be fully respected; it also called on the iraqi authorities to take concrete measures to protect civilians and prevent human rights violations. it also called on the parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law and urged them to open humanitarian corridors to allow civilians to escape. it called on the eu, the un and the international community to work with iraq's national and regional governments to facilitate the reintegration of iraqis and all ethnic and religious minorities who have been displaced. it stresses the absolute importance of ensuring security in a timely and effective manner and restoring the rule of law and basic services, as failure to provide them could result in the re-emergence of extremist forces. it also stresses the need to continue to combat the spread of islamist-jihadi ideologies, including salafi jihadism which acts as theological and political incitement to the crimes perpetrated by isis.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in northern iraq/mosul, because it is necessary for europe and the international community to work first and foremost for the protection of civilians, who are today 'trapped in mosul and in nearby villages and exposed to the combat zones. secondly, we must ensure that aid and humanitarian assistance reach the inhabitants of the nineveh plain. fortunately, the offensive against the daesh jihadists in mosul, northern iraq, seems to be making progress. it is a question of freeing a city of 1.3 million people, men, women and children, who are still living in terrible conditions under the yoke of the jihadists, from a ruthless occupation. every effort must be made to avert a humanitarian catastrophe.
in writing. ‒ our role as europe's humanitarian champions is not enough if it is not accompanied by a clear vision of the fate of the liberated territories. we support the creation through an inclusive process of new autonomous provinces for the nineveh plain, tal afar, sinjar and wherever else it is necessary to ensure security and democracy for minorities in their ancestral territories. we will not allow the ashes and oil of mosul to be the object of a shameful bargain at the expense of its citizens, because mosul will eventually fall, and i believe it will soon, but it could have fallen long ago if the discord and the conflicting selfishness had not entered the minds of the powers involved. recent history teaches us that in iraq the difficulty is not winning the war, the difficulty is certainly not losing the peace. i chose to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i take this opportunity not only to express my support for the joint resolution, but also to express my closeness to the iraqi army which, with the support of the global coalition against daesh, the peshmerga forces of the kurdish regional government and the popular mobilization forces, has launched an operation to remove mosul, and numerous towns and villages along the "mosul corridor", from isis control. in recent weeks we have witnessed with horror the atrocious suffering and mass executions that the inhabitants of the region have been subjected to constantly for years by isis, not to mention the one and a half million people at imminent risk of displacement due to the ongoing operations. we can only hope that the civilians will be guaranteed continued protection through alternative routes or humanitarian cordon, and that the rule of law and basic services such as health care, electricity and education will be restored in the liberated areas. it is well known that failure to provide services, security, a long-term strategy to combat root causes and efforts to promote social cohesion lead to the rise of extremist forces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it strongly supports the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from isis/daesh and identifies this operation as a decisive element of the global effort currently underway to defeat isis/daesh permanently. the resolution also calls on the iraqi authorities to take concrete measures to protect civilians during operations, by exercising effective command and control over the militias and by taking all possible precautions to avoid civilian casualties and human rights violations during the offensive. the european union also strongly condemns the violence and mass executions being carried out in iraq by daesh and expresses its deep concern at the continuing reports of daesh's use of children, the elderly, women and vulnerable people as shields against the military operations of liberation in northern iraq.
in writing. ‒ the iraqi army, with the support of the global anti-isis coalition, kurdish peshmerga forces and popular mobilization forces, has launched an operation to wrest mosul from isis control. i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses support for the ongoing operations to wrest iraqi territory from daesh control and highlights the need to take concrete measures to protect civilians during the operations. indeed, at least 1.5 million civilians are at risk of a full-blown humanitarian catastrophe, and the concern that isis is using civilians as human shields is real, given what has already happened in manbji, falluja and sirte. the resolution also stresses that the indigenous communities of the nineveh plain, tal afar and sinjar, already suffering from significant internal displacement, have the right to protection, security and regional autonomy within the federal structure of the republic of iraq. i am convinced that respecting iraq's multiethnic reality during and after the anti-terrorist operations is the first step towards building the country's political, economic and social future.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution which supports iraq's operation to liberate mosul from isis and condemns the real genocide against the christian minority and all other minorities in the territory that isis is committing.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the joint resolution of the political groups on the situation in northern iraq, in particular the commitment of europe, the external action service and the entire international community to provide practical and diplomatic support for a sustainable and inclusive post-war settlement of the region. i think it is particularly important to work towards the indigenous peoples of the region being politically represented in an autonomous province, and this also to give a gesture of inclusion and attention to all the ethnic and religious minorities, who are still largely displaced in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament on the situation in northern iraq in the mosul area because i am appalled by the news coming from mosul, which shows us a terrible reality, where women and children are used as human shields and suffer all kinds of atrocities, including the use of chemical weapons. i hope that the iraqi forces, the kurdish army and the international coalition fighting daesh will succeed in liberating the city as soon as possible and in stopping these horrible war crimes, and that those responsible will be brought to justice and be held accountable in the international arena. these operations must be carried out as quickly as possible, avoiding civilian casualties and protecting the most vulnerable, women and children. i also share the report's call for a future of peace, freedom, religious and ethnic inclusion and mutual respect when the city is liberated from daesh. it is absolutely essential to avoid further religious tensions and vendettas and to establish a real civil coexistence between the various ethnic groups and religions inhabiting mosul. only then can we give the iraqi people, after so many years of war, the peace and freedom to which they are entitled.
in writing. ‒ the deterioration of the situation in iraq and the launch of military operations, which are complex but indispensable in our fight against the terrorist organisation daesh/isis, must be on the agenda of our european and national foreign policy agendas. and the focus on these issues is even more delicate when you consider the repercussions these operations could have on syria: if effective, within a matter of weeks, the military offensive in iraq will force the isis militias to abandon mosul and retreat into syria. i voted in favour of this resolution precisely to reiterate this concept and to express my full support for the report presented today and for the ultimate meaning of these events: the european union is committed to the peace process, to the restoration of international security and to the protection of civilians forced to flee their homes and their towns, to doing everything in our power to avert a humanitarian crisis and to be as prepared as possible to provide assistance to the iraqi people.
in writing. ‒ the iraqi army, with the support of the global coalition against isis/daesh, the peshmerga forces of the kurdish regional government and the popular mobilization forces, has started the operation to liberate mosul from isis control. i would like to say that i am in favour of the proposal, given that the necessary security conditions should be guaranteed for all those who have been forced to leave their homelands and that their safety should also be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the european union must offer its full support to the efforts of the iraqi-led coalition to liberate mosul and, at the same time, do everything possible to alleviate the humanitarian crisis affecting the local population, in particular ethnic and religious minorities. for centuries these communities have coexisted peacefully, in a general climate of pluralism and cooperation. the occupation by isis/daesh of the city of mosul and the provinces of nineveh, tal afar and sinjar has caused untold suffering to the inhabitants, victims of crimes against humanity and of genocide itself. the european union, which supports the anti-isis/daesh coalition and wants to see those responsible for these crimes brought to justice and punished, also calls on the iraqi authorities to take all necessary measures to protect civilians, especially women, the elderly and children, during the campaign. the eu's support will be crucial even after the recapture of mosul and the surrounding region. its expertise and financial resources will be indispensable in the reconstruction of an inclusive and sustainable iraq, guaranteeing participation and fundamental rights for every community and every citizen.
in writing. ‒ after the failed coup, the situation of journalists in turkey is critical. many of them have been arrested without any evidence of criminal activity. i believe that the detention of journalists for the content of their articles and the closure of a very large number of news outlets are dangerous threats to the democracy of a country. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the failed coup attempt on 15 july, the turkish government has arrested 99 journalists and writers, revoked the accreditation of 330 other journalists and closed the offices of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, periodicals, publishing houses and distribution companies. according to human rights watch, many of these lawsuits were pursued without any evidence of the accused's participation in the failed coup. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i supported with my vote, strongly condemns the attempted coup and reiterates its full support for the legitimate turkish authorities. the text expresses deep concern, however, at the arbitrary detention of journalists, which cannot be interpreted as a legitimate response to military action and which constitutes a reality that undermines the principles of the rule of law. the free and pluralistic press is an essential component of democracy, as are due process, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary. turkey must commit to reducing the scope of the emergency measures, releasing journalists detained without conclusive evidence and facilitating impartial investigations into the events surrounding the failed coup.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly condemns the repression of journalists in turkey by the erdogan government, but it does not go further, it does not underline the fact that human rights violations in this country are on the agenda and are unacceptable. i believe that turkey is not in the least respectful of the eu's founding values and that the negotiations for accession to the union must be suspended immediately. i therefore could not support this text in its entirety and decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the situation regarding press freedom in turkey has deteriorated considerably over the last decade. the turkish government is abusing the state of emergency and the failed coup attempt of july 2016 to significantly curtail freedom of expression and media freedom. parliament noted that 89 journalists had been arrested without charge during the first months of the state of emergency. the turkish government had committed numerous and systematic violations of press freedom even before the failed coup attempt and the subsequent state of emergency. thousands of websites are currently blocked in turkey. however, violations of freedom of expression and media are not the only structural problem in turkey; the european union is also concerned about the treatment of minorities, the refusal to recognise the republic of cyprus and the ambiguity regarding terrorist groups in syria and iraq. parliament therefore calls on the turkish government to respect all the conditions of democracy and the rule of law and to put an end to any discrimination against citizens with regard to freedom of expression and other fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of journalists in turkey because unfortunately the events of last july have worsened the situation with an even greater contraction of freedoms, in particular freedom of expression. reporters without borders reports that at least 110 journalists are in prison, 70 of them arrested after the coup. plus 150 whistleblowers on the loose. it must be clear that respect for rights and freedoms in practice remains vital for a country which aspires to join the european union. the european union must work to ensure that european standards of democracy are guaranteed in this country.
in writing. ‒ the real coup actually succeeded erdogan and journalists are paying a heavy price for it. the candidate of the five star movement for this year's sakharov prize, the journalist can dündar, editor of the cumhuriyet newspaper, and many others who have denounced over the years the murky involvement of the national intelligence services, for example in the arms trade in syria, are among those who are paying with prison for their freedom of thought. meanwhile, the statistics are growing, we get to 100,000 websites blocked, we get to a country that is now ranked 151 in freedom of the press, 183 newspapers closed, 127 journalists arrested. i would remind the european union and the commission that freedom of expression is a right and not a crime, but the very essence of democracy. and if we do not say this forcefully to the turkish government, we will lose all credibility. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the complex situation that turkey has been experiencing since this summer has shaken our parliamentary activity and by reading the newspapers every day, i am lucky to be able to witness one of the greatest freedoms for the human being: the expression. if we were to be deprived of it, my own role would probably be empty. many people may make statements that are far from our worldview, sometimes even indefensible, and yet the very right to make those statements is inalienable and must be preserved in its essence. i therefore express my support for the resolution and my total disgust at the repressive measures taken against turkish journalists. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. in parallel, it emerged that the turkish authorities had closed the offices of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, periodicals, publishing houses and distribution companies after the coup attempt. i believe the government should reduce the scope of the emergency measures to avoid undermining freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, following the attempted coup d'état in turkey last july, the european federation of journalists and the turkish journalists' association have denounced the numerous arrests of journalists, most of whom have not yet been charged, and the closure of many broadcasters, newspapers, periodicals and publishing houses. while condemning the attempted coup, the resolution calls on the government of turkey to reduce the scope of the emergency measures so that they can no longer be used to restrict freedom of expression, as a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy.
in writing. ‒ after the failed coup, president erdoğan has launched an operation to purge alleged infiltrators of the gülen movement from the turkish public administration and society. the mass arrest campaign has also involved media and journalists, who already enjoyed restricted freedom of expression before the coup. after the coup, the situation worsened with the closure of 102 news outlets, authorized by a decree of 27 july 2016, and the detention of 101 journalists as of 14 september 2016. i voted in favour of this resolution because it supports the efforts of the legitimate authorities of turkey in dealing with the coup attempt of 15 july 2016. at the same time, it reiterates that such efforts must not run counter to the rule of law, which implies the right to a fair trial for all journalists who have been prosecuted in the absence of any evidence of involvement in the failed coup attempt. while recognizing the enormous terrorist threat to turkey, i am convinced that neither the coup nor the legislation in force can be used to prevent journalists and the media from peacefully exercising their freedom of expression through disproportionate actions and emergency measures.
in writing. ‒ freedom of thought, of the press, of speech: the turkish authorities seem to be unconcerned about such unacceptable human rights violations, and are pressing and repressing its main media outlets. the numbers are impressive, and they only come after the coup d'état a few months ago: 102 media outlets closed and 101 journalists detained. the regret, frankly, does not exhaust the deep indignation at these acts which are totally incompatible with the concept of democracy and which europe cannot and must not tolerate.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey because turkish journalists still work in difficult circumstances, subject to regular government censorship and intimidation. the eu strongly condemns the forced closure of many newspapers, radio and television stations in the aftermath of the failed coup and does not favour the ongoing accession negotiations. freedom of the press is a sign of democracy and justice, and the independence and respect for the rights of journalists are the guarantors of this freedom. the european parliament wishes to condemn in the strongest terms the intimidation of the media sector. i therefore share the deep concern about the deterioration of the situation regarding freedom of speech, expression and opinion in the country over the last two years. it is therefore crucial that the turkish government continue on the path of european integration and fully align itself with european values, principles and standards of freedom and democracy by immediately ending the mass arrests of journalists and releasing those in prison: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ today we are faced with a necessary and inevitable debate on the worrying state of one of the fundamental rights in a democracy, freedom of expression, in turkey, our indispensable partner for historical and strategic reasons. the immigration agreement is a reminder of the importance of turkey to europe and to the stabilisation action it plays at regional level. but that cannot prevent us from denouncing the attack on freedom of the press and information as a whole. since the failed coup last july, the crackdown on newspapers and news channels has been relentless and indiscriminate. the arrest of many, too many journalists has been in the international news for months now and will certainly not help the turkish regime to embark on the road to a transparent democracy. the current crackdown on the judiciary is a complacent way of closing ranks on journalists who still try to do their jobs independently. i am voting for this report with conviction because we europeans must have the courage to demand that this should end as soon as possible.
in writing. last july, turkey was the victim of a failed coup d'état which had serious repercussions on turkish society as a whole. as we know, hundreds of people have been killed and more than 2,100 injured. but some serious consequences have been suffered by journalists, of whom about 100 have been arrested and more than 300 have been deprived of accreditation. this is a violation of citizens' rights, which has also seen the closure of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, publishers and distribution companies. we condemn these acts and express our solidarity with the victims and their families, while making urgent recommendations to turkey. we therefore remind turkey, an important partner for the eu, of the importance of protecting human rights and the rule of law, and that freedom of expression and the media, and therefore a free press, are fundamental parts of a democratic society. we therefore call on turkey to reopen the media outlets that have been closed and to release the journalists and ensure that they are given a fair trial.
in writing. ‒ while taking into account the aspects presented in the document concerning the situation of journalists in turkey and admitting that i will follow the development of the above argument with interest, i believe that the points covered by the objection do not fully correspond to my idea and therefore i would not feel that i support it and i would vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the arrests of too many journalists, writers, academics and local politicians in turkey raise serious concerns about respect for pluralism and freedom of expression. turkey is an important partner for the eu. in view of its future accession, it must fully respect, as it has undertaken to do, the principles set out in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the situation in the country for journalists and the free press is becoming more and more difficult. even before the failed coup of july 15, there were many imprisoned journalists and very few independent media left. following the coup attempt, the following schools were also closed: on 27 july 2016, 102 news outlets were shut down by decree in one fell swoop; as of september 14, there were 101 journalists in prison. the turkish government has every right to prosecute the perpetrators of the despicable coup attempt, but this cannot be used as a pretext for human rights violations and to silence opponents and the press. for these reasons, i share the call in the resolution for the immediate and unconditional release of the imprisoned journalists.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the protection of the turkish media and journalists. the restrictions on their freedoms, as we know, are steadily increasing. as we know, even before the attempted coup d'état on 15 july, there were relatively few independent and free journalists in turkey, and the government was intimidating and threatening them. now that number is growing steadily: in recent months, it is estimated that since the failed coup, following the approval of the decree of july 27, 2016, 102 media outlets have been forced to close as they were accused of collaborating with gulen, who is believed to be the mastermind of the coup attempt. as of 14 september 2016, 101 journalists have also been arrested and are still in detention. the european parliament cannot afford to sit idly by and must take a serious and firm stand to protect democracy in turkey by firmly condemning the increasing restrictions on freedom of expression imposed by the government.
in writing. ‒ history teaches us that nuclear weapons have been the cause of tragic events that have destroyed the population of entire cities. today, in addition to the five powers which are members of the un security council, many states possess nuclear weapons, creating a situation of extreme danger for the member states of the european union. i believe that the world's great powers should commit themselves to seeking peace and security without nuclear weapons by promoting the elimination of nuclear weapons. for the reasons i have just described, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the issue of nuclear security and non-proliferation has recently received renewed attention following the increase in international tensions and the tightening of relations between states possessing nuclear weapons. as of january 2016, nine states (the united states, russia, the united kingdom, france, china, india, pakistan, israel, and north korea) are found to possess about 15,395 nuclear weapons. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i support, expresses deep concern at the deterioration of the security environment in the area surrounding the union, and beyond its neighbourhood, and at the role that nuclear weapons have again assumed in military doctrines. europe has a duty to strengthen disarmament and non-proliferation policies and international cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. the warhead states must reduce all types of nuclear weapons and become protagonists of a new un conference in 2017 that can negotiate a legally binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ we all want a world free of the danger of nuclear war, but there are still unclear passages in the resolution which led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament recognises the right of recognised nuclear weapon states to maintain their nuclear deterrent as an important element of national security. it supports the objectives of the npt in laying the foundations for global efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe and secure use of civil nuclear energy and to pursue the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. it also believes that the conditions for security and sustainable nuclear disarmament can only be achieved through a multilateral process. it therefore deplores the absence of russia from the 2016 nuclear security summit and encourages renewed efforts to promote cooperation with moscow. it supported the work of the international atomic energy agency in promoting cooperation in the nuclear field, in favour of the safe and peaceful use of nuclear technologies, and encouraged the continued promotion and strict implementation of the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material, urging those countries which had not yet ratified the convention to do so. it also called for increased cooperation efforts and effective action on the security of nuclear materials in order to minimise the risk of these products ending up in the hands of terrorist groups.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the statement on 'nuclear security and non-proliferation' by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, because nuclear disarmament is the most important objective of global arms control policies. the objective of a world without nuclear weapons should be the ultimate long-term ambition. unfortunately, there is concern about international stability following the deterioration of relations between nuclear-armed states such as the united states and russia. the european union is also concerned about the reappearance of the nuclear spectrum as a deterrent on europe's borders. the eu needs to work tirelessly to continue the disarmament agenda and to call for an ad hoc conference in 2017 to negotiate a 'legally binding' instrument to definitively ban the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ my strong support for this resolution is a convinced attempt to make the world a better place. on the other hand, if we believe that the spread of nuclear weapons is inevitable, then we are in some way admitting that the use of the same weapons will be inevitable. therefore, in the face of a global security that is faltering in every respect, given the emergence of risks of the most diverse and multifaceted nature, no further delay in the full implementation of non-proliferation is acceptable. the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery is a major concern for the international community, and it is particularly important to prevent terrorists from acquiring and using them. the early establishment of a nuclear-free zone in the middle east would therefore be essential to ensure a lasting and stable peace. i have high hopes for the full traceability and security of all nuclear material for military use and look forward to a large-scale participation in the 2017 united nations conference to negotiate legally binding instruments to prohibit nuclear weapons and enable their complete elimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because, taking into account the deterioration of the overall security situation, particularly in the eu, the current scenario could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and their possible proliferation between state and non-state actors. it is therefore necessary for all nuclear-weapon states to take concrete interim measures to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons exploding, moving towards a weakening of their operational status and moving from deployment to storage.
in writing. ‒ nuclear security and non-proliferation is an important issue on the european agenda, especially in the current context of european and global security, which has become more permeable to hybrid and unconventional threats. since its entry into force in 1970, the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) has been the legal reference point for non-proliferation and disarmament at international level. through its three pillars - nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful uses of atomic energy - the treaty aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to promote cooperation between states on nuclear energy for civilian purposes. nuclear weapon states and signatories to the npt are modernizing and upgrading their nuclear weapons arsenals and delaying action to reduce or eliminate them and to disengage from a military doctrine of nuclear deterrence. in addition, russia's exercises in some eu states, such as poland, raise concerns about further nuclear rearmament. by voting in favour of this resolution, i intend to support the respect and full implementation of the npt and the inf treaty.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the resolution denouncing russia's 'war games' on its western border without the slightest reference to the eu and nato responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on nuclear safety and non-proliferation because i share the concerns and proposals contained therein. the disarmament of all nuclear weapons for a world free from this threat was one of the great goals underlying the creation of the united nations. the horror of the hiroshima images is still vivid in our minds today, more than seventy years later. the agreement with iran seemed to be a decisive step forward towards this goal, but unfortunately we have to take several steps backwards. the international climate has worsened considerably in recent years and we are witnessing provocative behaviour on the part of nations which threaten the use of nuclear technology with unacceptable levity. the actions of north korea and russia, their continuing nuclear exercises, the deployment of russian missiles on the borders of nato are actions which we strongly condemn. i therefore join my colleagues in calling for an immediate cessation of all frivolous hostilities and for a joint international effort to achieve complete disarmament of nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because it is important that parliament too make its voice heard firmly, to indicate also in this field what the european citizens want. the overall european union strategy presented by the vice-president/high representative fits right in with this debate by indicating the pursuit of international security as the guiding principle of our joint action. the updating of the eu's counter-proliferation strategy may be the right opportunity for the eu to take the lead in this battle of global awareness, so that as many countries as possible take the path of non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament with conviction.
in writing. ‒ while i take seriously the points made in the document and accept that international cooperation on this issue is essential to prevent the proliferation of nuclear terrorism, i do not believe that the objections made are complete, so i would not feel that i support it and would vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the deep concern about the deterioration of the security framework at europe's borders and beyond, which risks leading to a return to the use of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent. i therefore join in calling on all the nuclear-weapon states to take all the necessary measures to reduce the risks associated with these arsenals and to gradually reduce them until they are completely and definitively dismantled. in particular, the provocative attitude of russia, which has deployed its nuclear-capable iskander missiles in the kaliningrad enclave, and the tests carried out by north korea, in violation of international law and un security council resolutions, must be condemned. i subscribe to the call for political and diplomatic solutions to international conflicts and tensions and for continued dialogue to renew and improve nonproliferation agreements. i am sure that europe will play a leading role in this respect, by supporting the work of the iaea and the united nations. i hope that we will soon be able to establish new zones free of nuclear weapons and all weapons of mass destruction, starting with the middle east and continuing with their total elimination.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has once again set the war drums in motion by approving by a very large majority threatening and unjustified anti-russian fanfares in the resolution on 'nuclear security and non-proliferation', which, although it has no legislative value, unfortunately has significant political value. the reality is different from how it is described in the report: accuses russia of carrying out "an armed attack" in eastern ukraine in 2014. in fact, before this supposed russian attack, the us and eu supported in ukraine, close to the russian border, a violent removal of the duly elected president and his replacement with a viscerally anti-russian establishment. the resolution also says that russia deployed nuclear missiles in kalingrad without providing context, as it was a russian reaction to us bombing of the syrian army, a russian ally, that set off the spiral of threats and planetary tensions. the vote on the resolution is available on vote watch: the amendments which tried to dampen the delusional and arrogant tone of the text which was tabled and which was voted for by the greens and all the major political groups, including the socialists, were ignored. we in m5s clearly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the statement by the high representative on nuclear security and non-proliferation. nuclear security and non-proliferation are central to our policy, especially now that europe's security is being challenged by conventional, unconventional and nuclear threats, generated by state and non-state actors. since international peace, security and stability are being threatened by the deterioration of relations with nuclear-armed states, i believe it is necessary to promote cooperation aimed at safeguarding our common values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much like this motion for a resolution, because it not only deprives us of one of the values we need most today, which is solidarity, but it is also a very useful tool for young people. in fact, 75% of volunteers believe that european voluntary service is an experience that offers greater opportunities to find a job later, and 85% say that this experience has made them more aware of european values. it is therefore an important stepping stone for young people to enter the labour market, which is a very important thing these days. i therefore believe that access must be facilitated not only in bureaucratic terms but that it must be enhanced for access to work once this service is over.
in writing. ‒ volunteering is also a key economic activity, contributing on average to around 5% of gdp. however, this importance is often overlooked by member states, which should set up adequately resourced national volunteering programmes and implement promotion initiatives to improve access to information on volunteering opportunities. because i believe that european voluntary service represents an important opportunity for many young people and as such should be adequately supported, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european voluntary service. this is an important instrument which is celebrating its 20th anniversary and has supported over 100 000 volunteers during this period. a demonstration of solidarity and responsibility that has contributed to strengthening active citizenship, social inclusion, training and intercultural dialogue. the text adopted today calls for encouraging the participation of organisations in programmes involving volunteers by allowing volunteering to be counted as a co-financing contribution to member states' projects linked to the eu structural funds. the commission should improve the communication strategy by ensuring simplified access to information on european voluntary service opportunities; the new european solidarity corps initiative should be supported but its implementation should not jeopardise existing voluntary schemes and their funding. the creation of a genuine european voluntary service statute would be an important instrument for ensuring that voluntary organisations receive the right legal and institutional recognition.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate and support the role of volunteering in civil society, but i do not think it is the union's job to define its activities, since the action of volunteers is linked to the territory in which they operate and it is therefore unrealistic to think that a single model can be imposed from above. i therefore preferred to abstain on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis is a clear symbol of the importance of volunteers and how they embody european values. the european parliament recognises that volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and personal human development and that it is an essential tool for social inclusion and cohesion, training, education and intercultural dialogue. it argues that a european framework for volunteering activities is necessary, as a legal framework defining the status of volunteers, indicating their rights and duties, and facilitating mobility and recognition of skills; the commission is also proposing that each member state should set up national voluntary service programmes with adequate resources. it supports the commission's idea of setting up the eu solidarity corps, a new european voluntary service initiative for young people. it also encourages member states to promote the european voluntary service in their education and academic systems. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european voluntary service.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which calls for the coordination and harmonisation of european policies on volunteering. european voluntary service is one of the most visible expressions of solidarity and makes a significant contribution to the dissemination of european values. the report stresses in particular the importance of a european legal framework for volunteering activities which defines the status of volunteers, indicating their rights and duties, and which facilitates mobility and recognition of skills. in the meantime, it encourages member states that have not yet defined a legal framework for volunteers to make use of the recommendations contained in the political agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter of the rights and responsibilities of volunteers. member states are invited to adopt the system developed by the ilo to measure the economic value of volunteering and to cooperate with eurostat in developing indicators and new measurement methods for the collection of comparative data.
in writing. ‒ i believe that everyone should have the right to equal access to volunteering opportunities, as well as to reconcile volunteering activities with their private and professional lives. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european voluntary service (evs), which is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year, enables young people aged 17-30 to go abroad and take part in volunteering projects. i consider volunteering to be a noble activity as an expression of solidarity which also contributes to strengthening active citizenship and promoting a culture of legality, and counters phenomena such as organised crime, social exclusion, poverty, intolerance, racism, xenophobia and injustice. in this respect, i thought i would vote in favour of the resolution because i believe that the commission should update the framework for volunteering programmes to take account of the development of new digital technologies and the humanitarian crises taking place inside and outside the union. in addition, the scope, fields of activity and objectives of the voluntary service should be extended, the programme should be extended to include third-country nationals and the age range for applying should be extended. finally, i think it would be appropriate for the commission to promote a european civil service initiative by highlighting the skills that can be acquired through experience.
in writing. ‒ europe is plagued by deep wounds: the economic crisis and high unemployment have led to a frightening increase in the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion, and uncontrolled migration flows are exposing them to all kinds of problems on a daily basis. where there is even the slightest trust in institutions, there is fortunately a resource to be counted on: the volunteer work. it draws its power from the essence of the human soul and has no remuneration because its value itself is priceless. i therefore vote in favour of the resolution, knowing that in these 20 years of european voluntary service it has been possible to promote active citizenship and profound personal development. in this context, it is essential to establish a european framework for voluntary activities, which defines their rights and obligations and facilitates their interaction between individual initiatives and programmes. the adoption of a european map would also make it possible to facilitate mobility between member states, depending on the emergency situations to be dealt with. together, we would achieve a recognition of skills, which is essential to be able to face adversity in the best way with a peaceful 'league' of ready intervention. i therefore believe that involvement from an early age to active ageing is essential: in fact, the best way to feel useful is to help others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the need for a more coordinated european policy on volunteering and also for simpler rules of access to this service. i agree that voluntary schemes can be used for national projects funded by the eu's structural funds. volunteering can provide an important opportunity for young people to learn skills that will be useful when they enter the world of work. it is therefore necessary to provide a european framework for voluntary activities which defines rights and duties and facilitates mobility and recognition of skills.
in writing. ‒ nearly 100 million eu citizens have volunteered in programmes covering education, culture, the arts, sporting events, humanitarian aid and development. despite the real social and economic benefits of volunteering, participation in the european voluntary service (evs) remains modest and many obstacles still need to be removed. to this end, i believe it is essential to develop a more coordinated volunteering policy, based on a legal framework with clear rights and responsibilities for programme managers and volunteers, and proper funding. on this last point, i believe that organisations should also be encouraged to increase their participation in programmes involving volunteers by, among other things, allowing volunteering to be counted as a co-financing contribution to member states' projects linked to the eu structural funds.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, parliament confirms its view of volunteering as an expression of community, freedom and responsibility aimed at strengthening active citizenship. given the crucial role of solidarity, especially in this particular and complicated historical period, volunteering becomes an indispensable tool for ensuring and promoting social inclusion and cohesion. for these reasons, i strongly supported this text, which calls on the commission to adopt various measures to promote voluntary service, including better communication of opportunities and better coordination to simplify bureaucracy. the european parliament also expressed its full support for the european commission's initiative launched in september for a 'european solidarity corps', a body which should better manage the participation of young volunteers, without compromising existing volunteering programmes and their funding.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the question to the commission from my colleague, mrs silvia costa, who, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the european voluntary service, intends to propose a possible boost to its expansion, a valuable instrument of integration and social cooperation, of training and an important opportunity for the development of the spirit of active citizenship and for the promotion of european values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe, because volunteering is an important expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that contributes to the strengthening of active citizenship and personal human development, and is an essential tool for inclusion and social cohesion, training, education and for the important contribution it can make to the dissemination of european values, hence the need to provide a european framework for volunteering activities, defining rights and duties, and facilitating mobility and recognition of skills. twenty years after the launch of the european voluntary service, however, there are too many differences between eu member states, some of which lack a legal framework for volunteers. i have therefore argued with conviction: firstly, quick and easy access to the programme, a simplification of the current application system, the importance of providing a european framework for voluntary activities, defining rights and duties, and facilitating mobility and recognition of skills, and finally encouraging member states to promote european voluntary service in their education and academic systems.
in writing. ‒ it should be borne in mind that volunteering has a considerable value as one of the most visible expressions of solidarity, promoting and facilitating social inclusion, developing social capital and producing transformations in society; furthermore, volunteering contributes to the development of a civil society capable of offering creative and innovative solutions to common challenges, as well as to economic growth. i therefore intend to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ we have a duty to recognise the social and economic value of the goods and services provided by the volunteers, who number almost 100 million citizens in europe and contribute to the production of about 5% of gdp. volunteering activities, in addition to promoting the values that underpin ethical and supportive social development, have important positive effects and great potential in terms of social inclusion, employment, education, skills development and the promotion of active citizenship. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution which, on the occasion of the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the european voluntary service, rightly stresses the need to promote volunteering more effectively throughout the eu by removing the obstacles which still exist, directly or indirectly, which prevent volunteers from making their valuable contribution to society.
in writing. ‒ this initiative, strongly supported by my colleague silvia costa and the culture committee, to celebrate 20 years of the european voluntary service through a parliamentary act is commendable. the resolution calls on the eu commission and the member states to create the most favourable conditions for the experience of volunteering throughout europe to be enhanced and its value recognised. it is the expression of a fundamental dimension of the freedom and responsibility of individuals, whether as individuals or as associations, but also, in concrete terms, a european value to be safeguarded. in every day circumstance, from disasters, humanitarian crises or emergencies, such as those we are experiencing in europe and its borders, as well as in the care and assistance of vulnerable people, the elderly, children, the disabled, the precious work of thousands of volunteers supports and complements that of the institutions. it is a free and valuable contribution that produces not only inclusion and social cohesion, but also innovation, and creates wealth: it is estimated that voluntary activities contribute to 5% of the union's gdp. we strongly urge the commission to ensure that the recommendations of the political agenda for voluntary service and the eu volunteers' charter are not left on paper to those member states which have not yet legislated on the matter, by establishing national volunteering plans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about young people and we know that the figures for youth unemployment are dramatic, they are dramatic in too many countries of the european union. that is why we must strengthen and also multiply the instruments which enable young people to achieve their potential, and the first of these is to find a job. we must find these instruments, above all, in the labour market, in access to the labour market, because we are witnessing a sad generational gap, precisely in terms of access to work and also in terms of wages. the most delicate moment in this respect is the transition from training to employment. i think that is where we need to concentrate our efforts and i also think that we need to create a business-friendly environment, a start-up-friendly environment in the european union. young people with new and creative ideas must be given the chance to turn them into reality. i believe that this is the key to reducing youth unemployment and boosting growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ although the report does not contain any particularly negative or critical aspects, i have decided to abstain. the main reasons are that the rapporteur does not adequately address the enormous problems facing the present generation, such as the immense difficulties young people face today in entering the world of work.
in writing. ‒ young people are a great opportunity for the european union, but too often they are among the first victims of the economic crisis and the ineffectiveness of the policies promoted for employment and growth by the different member states. my support for the bocskor report is motivated by the very awareness of the urgency and importance of preparing an effective eu youth strategy for the coming years. the text adopted today underlines the positive results achieved in recent years, in particular through the development of the eu's structured dialogue between policy-makers, young people and their representatives. this listening tool, which should also be promoted for the period 2016-2018, should be accompanied by further efforts to raise awareness of eu programmes and funding opportunities among young people. the aim should be to stimulate and motivate the various groups of young people to active citizenship both within local and global communities and in civil and democratic life, and to define a framework of cooperation to help them find employment and participate fully in social life.
in writing. ‒ the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 contains some positive points, but also some important criticisms, which led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the human and social capital of europe's young people is a decisive asset for the future of the union. the labour market has undergone profound changes over the last decade, including in the wake of the macroeconomic imbalances caused by the crisis. one of the most worrying effects of this phenomenon has been the alarming increase in youth unemployment in many member states. competence in youth policy lies with the member states, leaving the european union with the task of coordinating and supporting it. this strategic role requires europe to work in parallel in several areas, from education to employment and entrepreneurship. this report, which i support, also focuses on the inclusion of young people in the policies to be defined through the structured dialogue instrument. i believe that it is also through the active participation and involvement of the parties concerned that the national and regional authorities can develop long-term policies which are effective, especially in terms of employment.
in writing. ‒ the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest resources for the future. the eu and its member states cannot therefore refrain from developing the potential of the combined knowledge, creativity, skills and competences of 90 million young europeans. however, the population aged 16-35 has been the most affected by the crisis and the least protected by traditional forms of social protection and representation. while the member states have competence in youth policy, the eu can coordinate, promote and support a common framework for action aimed at facilitating the transition from education/training to the labour market, and promoting active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among all young people. in recent times, this has become a particularly important priority, due to the radicalisation of certain groups of young people in degenerated territorial areas and the need to prevent social ghettoisation or violent and subversive radicalisation. today, 13.7 million young europeans are neither in employment nor in education or training (neet) and 27 million are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. to deal with this is to deal with our future.
in writing. ‒ the report is not particularly critical, but it does not go to the heart of the problems facing the younger generation today; the commission has not yet taken any action to combat the problem of unemployment. the report, in accordance with the policies which have been put into effect so far, does not give a realistic analysis of the major structural problems facing europe today and, although it does not say anything wrong, it is therefore ineffective. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ abstention for this report which, as so often happens, is being used for political ends.
in writing. ‒ today i have the honour of participating in the decisions of a totalizing and unique phenomenon in history, but certainly when i started doing politics i could never have foreseen to hold such a position. when i first entered the alba city hall as deputy mayor at the age of 22, i felt the thrill and excitement of the moment, but at the same time i did not know how long my cursus honorum would last. the same uncertainty about the future that plagued me as a young man is now plaguing me as a father, as i see youth unemployment, high and highly variable rates of neets and growing social exclusion in the eu. i therefore vote in favour of the youth strategy in the full conviction that only the full participation of young people themselves in decision-making processes will facilitate the planning, development, implementation and monitoring of effective policies to address current and future challenges. i welcome the use of over 12.4 billion from the european social fund to implement not only active participation but also a stronger link between education and youth employment by promoting entrepreneurship and the coordination of skills and the labour market in a comprehensive and inclusive approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because i am firmly convinced that young people are one of the most important resources for europe and that, because of the economic crisis, they are one of the groups most in need today. the main risks they face today are social passivity, exclusion, isolation and even violent radicalisation. many young people have difficulty finding a job and this can also represent a serious obstacle to becoming independent. i agree with the eu youth strategy which defines eight areas of action: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and well-being, participation, voluntary work, social inclusion, young people worldwide, creativity and culture. priority should be given to measures that facilitate the transition from education/training to the labour market and that promote active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among all young people.
in writing. ‒ the alarming levels of youth unemployment and social exclusion among young people require effective and shared solutions. i believe that the eu youth strategy is a great vehicle for linking various fields of action, including employment and entrepreneurship, education and training and social inclusion, in order to develop articulated solutions to support young people. today, in the face of growing socioeconomic disparities, it is necessary and appropriate to facilitate the transition from education/training to the labour market by promoting active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among young people. this can only be achieved by channelling investment in inclusive education that ensures equal opportunities for all young people, including those from difficult socio-economic backgrounds or those who, like refugees, migrants and asylum seekers, belong to vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. in this context, i believe that the targeted promotion of crossborder training and vocational pathways, such as erasmus plus, can provide the key to equipping young people with skills and competences that can expand opportunities for participation in the labour market and social life.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted by parliament focuses on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 and on recommendations for its third and final three-year cycle (2016-2018). the report provided a clear overview of the challenges facing young europeans today, such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the report also identified certain categories of young people who are particularly vulnerable to unemployment and marginalisation, including ethnic minority groups, mainly made up of refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. europe cannot remain indifferent to this reality, which is why i strongly supported the recommendations in the report, including those to encourage investment in 'accessible' education and the promotion of quality apprenticeships. it is of key importance to invest in quality jobs by building an eu youth strategy that involves all stakeholders, and to promote and invest in mobility programmes, such as the erasmus+ programme, which should be accessible to all in order to foster the building of an increasingly strong european identity.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the report is commendable and positive, except for the passages where it falls back on the usual pro-immigrant and pro-lgbt rhetoric.
in writing. ‒ although the member states have exclusive competence in youth matters, europe's commitment to youth policies has undoubtedly set important goals, giving young people new and more ambitious prospects. let us take the erasmus programme, which has benefited over 3 million students. the current economic crisis is certainly not helping to combat unemployment, long-term unemployment or precarious and low-quality jobs, but the european youth strategy is showing improvement. that is why i voted in favour of this report, because i think it is important not only to draw up an action plan, but to constantly monitor the results to make sure we are moving in the right direction, aiming for even more ambitious targets for the last three-year cycle of the strategy (2016-2018). to improve the quality of life for our future, we must put pressure on the educational and social pillar of young people, giving them more opportunities for employment and integration, equality and easier access to training and the world of work - especially for the most vulnerable groups at risk of poverty and marginalisation - and a strong boost to social awareness and civic participation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 because i largely agree with its structure and content. from the beginning of the legislature, as socialists and democrats, we have placed youth policies and investment in young people at the centre of our political battle, as demonstrated by the advance funding of the youth guarantee, which we will also defend with reference to the next eu budget. however, much remains to be done to address the problem of youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion that many young people face, particularly low-skilled young people, neets, disabled young people, refugees and migrants. the eu must therefore continue to invest in future generations by strengthening all initiatives to combat youth unemployment and by addressing the issue of skills in a digital labour market: the european union has a long-standing commitment to the development of a european social model. finally, i share the call for non-formal education to be recognised as an integral part of the skills that young people must have in order to enter the world of work.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015, as it provides a comprehensive picture of the challenges facing young europeans, such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the approximately 90 million young europeans and their potential in terms of knowledge, creativity and skills represent the future of the union and cannot be neglected. in this respect, the report makes important recommendations, including investment in quality education and in jobs with good quality and safety, but above all calls for systematic involvement of young people and youth organisations in the creation of policies that affect them. investment in high-quality education systems should aim at maximum inclusion to ensure equal access and opportunities for all young people, including those from different socio-economic backgrounds and those from the most vulnerable and disadvantaged groups such as refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. we believe that the issue of youth is a key issue, as is also shown by the campaign for a european youth plan launched by the party of european socialists.
in writing. ‒ bearing in mind the importance of the active participation of young people in the planning, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all youth policies, and the need to strengthen the integration of youth policy through greater involvement in democratic and civic life, i agree with the comments in the document and would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the policies of the european union must be able to provide effective responses to the serious economic, employment and social problems affecting young people. youth unemployment has reached almost twice the level of general unemployment and the high rate of young people not in employment or in education or training remains a problem. the third and final three-year cycle of the eu youth strategy should prioritise the social inclusion of young people from disadvantaged backgrounds, ethnic minorities, refugees, migrants and asylum seekers, while ensuring their increased participation in democratic and civic life. equally important is the continuation of efforts to increase the labour market participation rate of young women, school leavers and young people with disabilities. i share the importance of the report's recognition of the structured dialogue as the most effective instrument for improving european programmes, both at the development and implementation and evaluation stages, the involvement of youth organisations and cooperation with local and regional authorities, families, schools and religious communities.
in writing. ‒ the human and social capital represented by young people is one of europe's greatest resources for the future. the european union and the member states must do everything possible to develop the potential of the combined knowledge, creativity, skills and competences of europe's 90 million young people. this european parliament resolution aims to reduce the gap between the various groups of young people by providing adequate solutions against the risk of social passivity, marginalisation or even radicalisation. the european cooperation framework on youth supports the measures taken by the different member states and the eu, mainly through actions such as data collection, mutual learning, exchange of experiences and dialogue with young people. i fully agree with the need to encourage young people to take on their responsibilities in the civic and democratic life of their communities and to work towards the building of a united europe. for all these reasons i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an overview of the challenges facing young europeans today, such as youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. it also identifies target groups that are more likely to be unemployed and marginalised. i fully share the need expressed in this report to channel investment towards inclusive education to ensure equal access and opportunities for all young people, including those from different socio-economic backgrounds, as well as vulnerable and disadvantaged groups such as refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. the report also stresses the need to implement as soon as possible some recommendations at eu level, such as investing in accessible quality education, promoting quality apprenticeships, improving skills and competences, investing in quality and safe jobs, and building an eu youth strategy involving all stakeholders and in particular youth organisations. recognition of voluntary activities and, finally, promotion and investment in mobility programmes, in particular in the erasmus+ programme, are essential.
in writing. the report calls on member states to make the best use of the policies and financial frameworks available at national and eu level in order to promote adequate investment in young people and job creation. i think, however, that the document does not go to the heart of the problems affecting the present 'stolen generation', namely the enormous difficulties in integrating into the social and working world. the major structural problems facing europe today are not being tackled. it is simply a matter of formulating a series of generalizations which, in practice, lead to little or nothing. it is not fully understood that the future of europe is represented by our young people. i strongly believe that the eu should spend heavily to support these generations by creating concrete opportunities and promoting targeted actions. in the light of these considerations, i have decided to abstain on the report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to say that i had to vote against this resolution because the idea behind the title is very good and acceptable, but the rapporteur has deviated too far from his stated intentions to the point of interfering with the most recent political debate and that is why we have not been able to accept the report. it's a shame, a missed opportunity. in particular, i must say that i found the opposition to the tout court trade agreements to be very prejudicial and not very objective. in reality, these agreements are the necessary pillars for the revival of the european economy, and they represent a great opportunity for job growth, for the internationalisation of companies and also of our professionals. of course, they must be done well, but the one with canada, for example, is a good example of how to protect our agricultural foodstuffs against fraud and counterfeiting. i am sorry, i repeat, i would have preferred something less ideological and more factual.
in writing. ‒ agricultural and rural areas are facing a very serious employment problem in these areas today. the rural areas are becoming more and more empty and work is becoming increasingly scarce. the cap (common agricultural policy) must therefore be the main lever for the recovery of these areas. unfortunately, it has aspects which are not quite appropriate to the present situation. we need a cap which takes account of the needs of all, reflects a global vision and is oriented towards the present and the future. as i think it is essential that european funds be used to try to solve the current european problems in the above-mentioned area, by encouraging family businesses, youth employment in rural areas and improving infrastructure, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite some agreeable references to the role of the agricultural sector in the text, the andrieu report unfortunately falls short in its rhetoric in favour of employment in this sector of illegal alleged refugees. i think that the priorities are quite different. i have been calling for some time now for the european institutions to speed up the implementation of effective measures to support the thousands of italian farmers affected by the economic crisis. for these reasons i prefer to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ globalisation and the economic crisis have been placing a strain on european agriculture for some time, particularly in rural areas. in many member states the number of farmers has fallen dramatically, as have their income and employment in the sector. despite the merits of the common agricultural policy (cap) in promoting the growth of european agriculture over the past decades, the cap's limitations in the face of current challenges must be recognised. the cap has proved incapable of countering the depopulation of the countryside, creating distortions of the agricultural market as a result of austerity policies, neglecting the social function of the primary sector in terms of employment. i therefore support this report because a more social agricultural policy is essential for the future of the rural world. the cap must be able to put farmers and the quality and competitiveness of their products at the forefront. in the face of the economic crisis, the eu has made employment one of its key priorities; the cap must therefore be reasserted as one of the instruments of european action for maintaining and creating employment in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ in rural areas, jobs are linked to agriculture and the agri-food industry. these sectors are important for social and territorial cohesion, and it is therefore necessary to maintain the cap budget and strengthen its social and economic role. a coordinated approach between the second pillar of the cap and other eu funds must be implemented in order to enhance effectiveness and avoid inefficiencies. urgent reforms are needed on the first pillar of the cap which favours large producers and therefore leads to market concentration and lack of incentives for employment. further measures should be developed to introduce proportionality and flexibility in relation to the administrative burden of the cap. in the eu's rural cohesion policies, and hence in the cap, a gender perspective should be developed to close the gap that still exists, especially in terms of pay. specific programmes should be introduced to encourage female entrepreneurship and to improve vocational training. it is also necessary to promote the social and economic integration of all rural workers, including refugees, migrants and seasonal workers. digital and transport links in rural areas need to be developed and improved to help achieve a better work-life balance for farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe it is a well-articulated proposal to tackle the problem of employment in rural areas in a decisive way. supporting young farmers through the first and second pillars of the cap, stepping up support for small and mediumsized farms and fighting against price volatility to ensure income for farms are the key actions to be taken to ensure a future for the primary sector, especially in rural areas. i believe that the volatility of agricultural prices is one of the main factors in the dire situation of many european farmers. i therefore support the strengthening of risk management instruments, crisis management measures such as countercyclical aid, the op and the role of price monitors, which are useful for guiding production and intervening in the event of a crisis. i think the cap is at a crossroads. from 2020 onwards, a radical reform will be needed that puts farmers, quality and the environment at the forefront. a new model of agriculture, more sustainable, which focuses much more on supporting and developing small and medium-sized farming enterprises, must be planned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which puts forward concrete ideas on how to repopulate rural areas which have been increasingly depopulated over the last decade and where work is becoming increasingly scarce. eu agriculture is facing a multitude of challenges: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development, and the establishment of a european agricultural fund for rural development. the cap is one of the most important community policies, accounting for about 34% of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report as it responds to my vision: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. in line with the rich diversity of our territory, it is precisely by providing aid for the cultivation of local varieties and the breeding of indigenous breeds that regional employment is promoted and biodiversity is maintained. such aid must, of course, be focused on sustainability and profitability of the enterprises in order to create and maintain jobs. consistent with this, it is a priority to protect and implement quality schemes, geographical indications and organic farming to allow for the full development of the agri-food sector and to create employment potential in rural areas, as well as to preserve indigenous culture and identity. access to wider markets for these local excellences must also be facilitated and therefore improving their promotion and marketing would have significant effects on the whole economy through consumer confidence in them and the overall demand for goods generated by environmental heritage. rural development and employment would grow simultaneously thanks to the contribution of local authorities, well aware of the strong incentive provided by diversification of agricultural activity.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report, there are many positive and shareable steps, but then the importance of immigration in agriculture is always emphasised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas, for which i was the shadow rapporteur for opinion in the committee on employment, because i believe that agriculture in rural areas is of great importance for the future of many member states and of europe as a whole. the current economic crisis has led to high unemployment in many eu countries. if made more effective, the cap can help to create new jobs and improve the competitiveness of rural areas and encourage the development of tourism and the agri-food processing industry. the future of rural areas is strongly linked to the maintenance of other economic activities such as forestry, handicrafts and the development of smes and to the ability of smes to integrate different production lines, demonstrating how rural development and job creation go hand in hand. for these reasons i supported the call on the commission and the member states to support cooperative enterprises operating in the social economy, so as to promote social integration, and the call on the commission to promote the contribution of the social economy to rural development, for example through a social economy action plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is an important moment for the common agricultural policy, which is in some ways at the centre of controversy. we wonder what went wrong, because despite having a large budget at its disposal it was not able to "protect" farmers from the terrible crisis of the last year. because it did not lead to a real development of agriculture and a substantial increase in employment. i think that now is the time to act and i think that first of all if we want the cap to work we have to simplify it and ensure that the funding is adequate for the coming years too, not accept cuts. and then the cap must be inclusive, it must attract new farmers. we must look at young people and access to land and support small and mediumsized enterprises, which must be the first beneficiaries of aid. it is unacceptable that the majority of cap direct payments go to the wealthiest farms and that only 13% of beneficiaries received 74% of cap direct payments in 2014. it is not useful to help the strong, the agricultural fabric is mainly made up of small farmers, small family farms, they are the engine of rural development, they are the ones who must receive aid.
in writing. ‒ while taking into account the aspects presented in the paper concerning the possible effects of the cap in rural areas and while noting the importance of this subject and the fundamental importance of maintaining the two pillars of the cap in order to improve creation and, in particular, employment in rural areas, i do not believe, however, that the objections presented are complete and therefore i would not feel that i fully support them. i therefore intend to abstain.
in writing. for more than a decade, we have been witnessing the depopulation of rural areas in most european countries. the local economies in these areas are becoming weaker and weaker, with a consequent drastic decline in the employment opportunities available in these areas. the cap, the eu's common policy, is designed to be the main lever for the recovery of rural economies. the reality, however, is different. the cap is failing to use its full potential to make rural areas into employment-rich areas. this report, for which i voted in favour, is a concrete attempt to find solutions to the problems and challenges facing these areas. it is emphasized that the future of rural areas does not depend solely on the development of the agricultural sector but is linked synergistically to the diversification of other economic activities such as forestry, handicrafts, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and rural tourism. we need to invest in local infrastructure, encourage young people to take up rural jobs and re-educate those over 40 to create an economy that will help repopulate these areas.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a little disappointed, as i am every year, by the european central bank's report, because it misses a great opportunity to highlight, with a little intellectual honesty, the economic and monetary situation. we are seeing a failure for the citizens of europe, which is obvious, because in terms of employment and in terms of economic development we have been at a standstill for several years, faced with big deals for those who are currently buying up member states at a discount. this is because, of course, thanks to the policies implemented through the euro and through the inherent austerity that is in this project, there are cuts in public investment, wage devaluations to compensate for the inability of the system to balance out existing imbalances, because we have blocked the exchange rate and therefore wages are devalued and the policies of the jobs act simply imply making people poorer to make the eurozone competitive. this is a project which objectively cannot work in these terms and which obviously benefits those who want to speculate and privatize everything that is the property of the state. and that is why it is an unsustainable and even unreformable project. the euro area will never be an optimal currency area, precisely because the following conditions are not met: if you go and read the books of all the great economists in the world, including stiglitz, you realize how untenable this is as a project. so there cannot be a single monetary policy for 19 countries, or even for 27 or 28, at a time when there are no conditions for this. why would you do that? because there are different needs in terms of interest rates and inflation rates. this is a problem which the euro and the ecb will never be able to solve, and we are missing a great opportunity by not including it in this report because the dissolution of the currency area is now imminent. we don't talk about it, but this event will happen and it will most likely happen unchecked and it will be the fault of politics, which did not want to deal with this issue when it could have.
madam president, mr draghi, mr dombrovskis, ladies and gentlemen, with this report the european parliament expresses its support for the monetary policy action of the ecb, recognizing that the measures implemented are consistent with its mandate, with the objective of price stability and, therefore, with that of competing with the more general economic policy of the union. it is hardly disputed that, in the face of the unprecedented scenario of low growth, low inflation, low natural interest rate, the extraordinary monetary policy measures implemented by the ecb have been decisive in preserving the euro area from deflation and contributing to the ongoing economic recovery. for those who wonder about their risks and negative implications, it is worth recalling that the ecb's monetary policy is not the cause of low interest rates but is a symptom of them and the necessary - though not the only - therapy. in view of the moderate pace of the recovery and its exposure to downside risks stemming from the current phase of political and economic uncertainty, it is clear that a continuation of the current accommodative stance of monetary policy will be necessary to ensure a return of the inflation rate to below, but close to, 2%. at the same time, it is equally clear that this action, while necessary, is not sufficient. we must therefore make better and stronger use of the economic policy instruments at our disposal. we are facing the risk of a vicious circle between low growth expectations and low investment, which can also have a negative impact on potential growth, making the crisis structural, and not just cyclical, in its effect. this scenario is aggravated by the uncertain political environment and the possible pursuit of a line of economic unilateralism by the new us administration. this requires making our policy mix of structural reforms and fiscal policies more growth-oriented, in particular by supporting public and private investment and strengthening social and territorial cohesion. in this sense, the commission's recommendation of a moderately expansionary fiscal stance is an important step forward which must now be translated into concrete actions and instruments. the european parliament will not fail to have a say in this debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we should thank the european central bank and the work of president draghi, because in these periods, in these years, they have given financial stability to our continent and to the eurozone and because they have protected the eurozone from the severe financial storms that have been there. but i - and i do not want to offend president draghi - would like to take this opportunity to make a call, above all, to politics, above all to you, the commission, and to us in parliament. i would like to draw attention to two responsibilities we have as politicians. the first is that we must renew our institutions to give democratic control to our eurozone, democratic control to our budgets and our economy. the second reminder is that we must transform the work that has been done by the european central bank into policies: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to do this! in a sentence: we cannot continue to shoulder our responsibilities with the european central bank. we should leave the responsibility for monetary policy to the european central bank, but we must have the courage to take back economic, fiscal and social policies. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i listened with interest to your speech and since you said that you want the european central bank to be in charge of monetary policy, i want to understand how is it possible that a single monetary policy is good for 19 countries which are demonstrating different needs in terms of interest rates and inflation right now? how can this be from both a political and, above all, a technical point of view? because technically it's impossible today.
answer to a blue-card question. i confess that from a technical point of view, i leave the answer to the technicians. from the political point of view, which is what this parliament is most interested in, i believe that, as i said in my speech, either we are able to renew our institutions and thus make the eurozone democratic, or, of course, we will not be able to respond to the demand you made, which i share.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president draghi, finally, in preparing the extension of quantitative easing beyond march, said that we cannot let our guard down, as the economy is steadily and moderately recovering but fundamentals are still fragile and monetary policy remains a key ingredient for the recovery of gdp. structural reforms and better regulation of the banking sector remain urgently needed. the distortive effects of a hard brexit and the us scenario since the election of trump, factors of uncertainty and volatility in european markets and economies, must be considered. the ecb's role is crucial in this regard, considering the purchase of eur million of abs since the start of the programme, the reduction of rates to unprecedented levels, the creation of the single supervisory mechanism and the srep common valuation methodology. i therefore welcome the report and the commitment of the ecb to do everything necessary to defend the euro, which i believe it is doing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by olle ludvigsson, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the green paper on retail financial services (2016/2056 ((ini)) (a8-0294/2016)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, mr ludvigsson's excellent report essentially asks the commission to do two things. the first is to implement the legislation already adopted, because in applying the agreements signed there is a sense of credibility of the institutions which we think is important. the commission is also calling for further initiatives, including the proposal for a european union savings account and the encouragement of sustainable and, in particular, green investment. why do these two demands go hand in hand? because we need to create awareness and strength in the internal market among the users, the consumers, who are the main target of the actions we are asking you to take. i would like to return briefly to two of the consumer aspects you mentioned. the first concerns information: the right information makes the user aware of the service. he can thus choose what to do and with whom to do the actions he needs for investment and for the valorization of his savings. the second theme is that of appeals: the possibility of appeal gives security to investors. we are suffering today from a lack of awareness and also from a very high level of insecurity. if you make these choices, you will help to strengthen the internal market and, above all, the actors within it, the consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in previous speeches i have also stressed the need to introduce transparency in financial markets in order to build up consumer confidence. the fact that retail financial services are still in their infancy is due to a lack of transparency, consistency and protection of savings at the macroeconomic level and, above all, to a lack of respect for the principles of cooperation and exchange of information. a key driver is coordination with the digital single market, but there is a big responsibility in terms of privacy, if only we consider the phenomenon that is moving fast the first steps of "robo-advisory", which represents the most modern outpost of fintech. but i wonder: how can we allow an electronic, not a human, operator to advise us on the purchase of financial products if we have not yet solved the crucial challenges of security, data protection, consumer protection, fair competition and financial stability at the level of member states and central banks?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for this engaging and interesting debate on the report. the commission will take account of the issues which were raised today, and those outlined in the report, when preparing the retail financial services action plan. i believe our positions are similar in many ways. the commission is focused on practical solutions. to keep the momentum, we will commit to actions which can be implemented quickly and which will bring tangible benefits to the everyday lives of consumers. so i agree that we need to be ambitious in this area. in preparing our action plan, we will, of course, remain open to ideas and cooperation with stakeholders across the board, very much including the european parliament. so i am looking forward to working closely and constructively with all of you to push this agenda forward.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the completion of basel iii, by roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000136/2016 - b8-1810/2016) (2016/2959 ((rsp))
author. – mr president, this debate takes place one week before the next meeting of the basel committee in chile, which will be an important step in the process towards the finalisation of the so-called basel iii agreements with a fundamental review of the banking book. as we know, this review is focused on three groups of measures: the review of the standardised approach for credit and operational risk, in order to enhance the risk sensitivity and robustness; the introduction of constraints to the use of internal models; the potential introduction of capital ouput floor based on the standardised approaches that defines the minimum amount of capital requirement for internally model exposures. the parliament will be called, as co-legislator, to introduce the outcomes of this review into eu law. taking into account the relevance and potential impact of the measures under discussion, we consider it necessary to intervene in the debate. we had an exchange of views with the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the commission, the european banking authority (eba) and the secretary-general of the basel committee, and we drafted this oral question and the resolution, which has been approved by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) with a very broad majority and will now be put to the vote before the plenary. as the resolution clearly states, we believe in the importance of sound global standards, and we reaffirm that banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy and reduce risk. we also consider it important to increase simplicity, comparability and convergence of the risk-weighted capital framework in order to address excessive variability in risk-weighted assets and to apply the same rules to the same risks. however, we think that the current revision, in order to be effective and not to have unintended and counterproductive consequences, needs to fully respect two principles. firstly, it should not significantly increase overall capital requirements for european banks as the basel oversight board has clearly stated. secondly, the revision should not have a negative impact on the level playing field at global level. it should not exacerbate – rather it should mitigate – the differences between types of banks and between geographical areas, and it should not unduly penalise the eu banking model. as we know, although the draft standard has been built up by specific proposal subject to public consultations and specific quantitative impact studies, during the summary many concerns have been expressed and it clearly emerged that the various drafts did not respect the two above-mentioned principles. for this reason, we are calling on the basel committee to revise its proposals. we also call on the ecb, the ssm and the commission to ensure the respect of the two principles in the finalisation and monitoring of the new standard. as the resolution clearly states, we consider that this would be instrumental for ensuring a consistent incorporation of the new measures into eu legislation. we understand that some steps in the right direction have been taken, and we encourage all the remaining critical elements to be addressed. as regards the use of internal models, they need to address the variability of risk-weighted assets should not be a reason to drop the sensitiveness of prudential requirement. it should be rather an incentive to deal with lack of organisation in modelling approaches, as the eba and the ssm have already been doing since 2014, in order to ensure that risk-weighted assets are always consistent with the actual risk behaviour of banking assets. last, but not least, the resolution expresses concerns about the potential effect on the real economy of the possible introduction of output floors. the output floor is closely linked to the leverage ratio, and the new standard should ensure that the level of calibration of these two measures does not lead to an unintended duplication that could not only end up with an undoubtedly punitive outcome for the euro in terms of capital requirements, but also undermine the effectiveness of the overall reform package. in conclusion, with this resolution the parliament reaffirms its commitment to work on agreed international standards, but at the same time it warns that those standards should fully take into account the specificity of the eu banking model and strike the right balance between stability and growth. we hope that the adoption of this resolution with a broad majority will contribute to this balanced outcome.
on behalf of the efdd group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is necessary to understand that the crisis we are facing today is the result of the deregulation of the financial markets that began in the 1980s. the eu looks at the straw, in this case, and not at the beam. the problem of our banks is not "basel yes or basel no", but a systemic crisis that has been "euro-induced" and the introduction of new rules that have been asymmetrical and distorting and have damaged our banking system. i think it takes three small steps to fix our system. the first step must be to unplug the single currency, which is causing an endless crisis within the eurozone system and thus the banks. two , i 'm not . get rid of the banking union. and three: adopt strict regulation starting from the separation of commercial banks from business banks.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the basle committee must act as a matter of priority to deal with and resolve what i consider to be the major difficulties affecting the banking sector today. as you know, banks are and will remain the main subject for investment in the future, both for companies and for households. the undercapitalisation of some of them and the risks that this entails, but also the unfair behaviour towards investors, have created a negative climate which leads many people to be seriously worried and therefore to have a non-linear and non-transparent relationship with the banks. i think it's very important to address this priority and at the same time give the shadow banking system equally clear rules: any form of distortion of competition is an objective injury to the economy on the one hand and to investors on the other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the present economic situation requires that adequate credit be restored to the business system and that banks take greater care of the quality of credit. basel iii must first of all start a rethinking of the bank-business relationship: the financial industry must provide greater support to the productive system in accessing the capital market and assisting in the identification of new forms of capitalisation, while ensuring financial stability. in this context, the commission can and must play a leading role in ensuring a level playing field, in calibrating the final rules and in managing any increase in bank capital requirements. the transposition of the new rules, if not carried out in a structured and coordinated manner, could result in an average increase in the cost of financing to firms, thus re-igniting the downward spiral of recent years.
in writing. we know that the italian maritime transport system needs to be improved in some respects and the report we are going to vote on proposes to encourage competitiveness and to improve infrastructure. in addition, special attention is paid to environmental sustainability, promoting compliance with the cop 21 objectives and encouraging the decarbonisation of transport. i believe that the environment is a very important and sensitive issue which needs to be given serious attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, nino di matteo is the prosecutor in italy who is investigating the mafia massacres of the 1990s and the relationship between the mafia and italian politics. his constant commitment against "cosa nostra" has produced an invitation, from the italian state, to leave palermo and sicily. those of us who, like me, grew up in sicily during the years of the mafia massacres cannot help but connect the institutional behaviour of those terrible years with some of the events that concern nino di matteo today. the italian state is, for the umpteenth time, demonstrating that it has no greater fear than to prosecute itself, while the silence of the media amplifies the still current mixture between mafia and politics. that is why, on behalf of the italian people, i would like to invite all members of this parliament to see the documentary produced by al jazeera on the most dangerous judge in europe. nino di matteo has been trying to say for 20 years that the problem is not the mafia itself, but that the mafia feeds on collusion and political cover. perhaps it is time that someone at european level took a closer look at the mafia phenomenon.
the agenda includes a discussion on the commission statement on the decision adopted on the european semester package, including the annual growth survey 2016 (2016/2927 ((rsp)).
i believe that the communication on fiscal policy adopted by the commission is the best response to the populists' advance, because the most valuable ally of the populists is blind and dogmatic austerity. and it is on the rubble left by austerity that the new political order promoted by the populists thrives. it is no coincidence that today trump in america promises a great investment plan of one trillion dollars: the european union cannot remain indifferent to the new american activism. the european commission is right and i want to thank commissioner moscovici for his fundamental work. we must move towards a more expansionary fiscal policy for the euro area and countries which now have budget surpluses have a duty to invest more. but we also need a major european initiative to support a more ambitious economic policy. it is therefore right that parliament should define at this time the nature of a european fiscal capacity. for our group, the commission's new approach to fiscal stance is a necessary turning point. i want to make it clear to those who are trying to sabotage this development - and i am referring in particular to mr schäuble - that for us this fiscal stance is an unbridgeable red line, on which we condition our support for this commission and we will not tolerate any sabotage. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i only know, mr hökmark, that the austerity policy, which was intended to reduce the debt, has not reduced it, for a very simple reason, which even elementary school children know: if you reduce government revenue to squeeze investment spending, you don't reduce debt, you increase it. indeed, the aggregate debt of the euro area has increased rather than decreased. only a serious investment policy - mr othmar is right about this - a serious investment policy, based on and aimed at large tangible and intangible infrastructures, the environment, the energy transition and human resources, can reduce debt, increasing wealth, jobs and, therefore, state revenues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i joined this parliament, that is to say during my last term, i have dealt with all the issues relating to the six months, and i find it astonishing that in two and a half years, almost three, we have not succeeded in changing even a little bit the dogma attached to this austerity which is inherent in the treaties, which is inherent in this project, which in my view is not complete and irreformable from both a technical and a political point of view, and which is called economic and monetary union. unfortunately, we know that the euro is technically an unsustainable currency, creating imbalances and, in fact, causing the total destruction of the social and economic reality in europe. if we look at the surplus that germany has accumulated this year, we find that it amounts to almost 9%, that is to say 300 billion. germany has now become the china of the world, and all this thanks to the euro, a currency which is undervalued for its economy and which allows it to generate this monstrous trade surplus in the face of the monstrous deficits generated in the countries of the south. that is something that is not mentioned in your texts and that, objectively, should be emphasized more. so what happens? at the moment when you say that you have growth, growth in europe is due to monetary policies which have significantly devalued the currency and because of a situation linked to energy prices, which are very low. the moment that this fails, there will be no more growth and the structural problems will still come up. i am, however, really surprised that the single currency project is being defended religiously. you can't go on like this, because the world's greatest economists are saying, if we do not put the problem of the political and, above all, technical unsustainability of the single currency at the centre, we will not be able to move forward and there will be an uncontrolled dissolution of the area. and the commission and all the populist and demagogic parties who continue to support the euro will be the only ones to blame.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have waited for years for the day when a commissioner would have the courage to come here and say: we made a mistake! europe has made a mistake: the commission has made a mistake in its economic policy, its monetary policy, its foreign policy. we hoped in vain that this day would come, but now we have given up hope. so i ask the commissioner and all of you: has unemployment decreased in recent years? i'll answer for you. i'm not going. has the public debt gone down? i'm not sure. are european citizens richer and more optimistic? no, they're poorer. have you done anything to combat islamic terrorism? i'm not sure. so we say no to this europe. let's say no to your crazy policies that have us invaded by thousands of illegal aliens. i will vote no on 4 december. no to the reform of the italian constitution which will make you, the big commercial banks, the financial lobbies, the powerful powers who command this european "soviet union" decide everything. we want to be free and own our own house, not slaves to these bureaucrats in brussels.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the commission's recommendation for a moderately expansionary fiscal stance in the euro area. this is a necessary recommendation which we have been calling for for some time. the still too modest pace of recovery, which remains exposed to international economic and political uncertainty, highlights the risk of a vicious circle between low growth expectations and low investment, which may undermine the very potential for growth and transform the impact of the crisis from cyclical to structural. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the internal market. to those who speak of excessive easing of the rules, i would like to remind them that in recent years the euro area deficit has fallen from 6.2% to 1.5% in a few years. 2) that, if anything, the commission's recommendation is proof that our rules need to be improved, as country-specific recommendations would lead to a fiscal stance that is less than what the commission itself considers necessary in the current macroeconomic context. we must therefore work towards a fiscal capacity for the euro area and improve our rules, starting with a revision of the matrix and the opening of a debate on differentiated treatment between investment and current expenditure in the stability pact. parliament will be an active player in this debate, just as it has contributed to a wise choice which we welcome in relation to spain and portugal. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – i would like to mention not only the current us economic policy, but also what germany did at the beginning of the last decade, when it implemented very ambitious structural reform at the same time as fiscal stimulus, one of the elements at the basis of the current very excellent performance and competitivity of the german economy. both american and european history give excellent examples, and we do not need to be keynesian. i do not want to be keynesian. i want to be pragmatic – as you are – to see that in the current macroeconomic context not to accept any kind of fiscal stimulus is not very logical.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fragile recovery in europe over the past year, with gdp back to pre-crisis levels, should not be misleading: unemployment and poverty levels remain too high in many regions of europe and levels of inequality reduce growth potential. i do not share president juncker's call for the states with less budgetary margins to pursue growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. limiting growth-enhancing investment in some countries and allowing it fully in others will only increase economic disparities within the european union. i would like to take the example of my country, italy, which has experienced two very serious earthquakes in the last year and which allocates some 6 billion euros of its budget to immigration each year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the directive by the european institutions is good, but it is not yet enough to combat, in my view, the problem of money laundering, corruption and tax evasion effectively. i believe that we need to act on two fundamental points in order to implement consistent legislation. the first point - and this has already been stressed by some colleagues - is that information sharing is not enough to combat this problem, but it must become an obligation, otherwise the states will never implement it. the second point is crucial: we need to understand the overriding role of the banking system in facilitating this kind of criminal behavior. until we have increased control over banking transactions and the banking system and until we have a system of common and heavy sanctions at european level, including the withdrawal of a licence, we will not solve this problem. the scandals of recent years have called us to action and that is our task. the directive is a good first step, but it is not enough. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. absolutely it's necessary. it is necessary to impose a common standard for this obligation to exchange information. a major problem, however, which the commission must solve at the same time, is the budget available to local tax administrations: in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has not yet received any information on the application of the tax system to the taxation of income and wealth. and this is also because of the austerity that is being imposed, in some cases, on governmental and state administrations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the revelations of swissleaks, luxleaks and the panama papers confirm the need for greater tax transparency and greater cooperation between the courts. the link between tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering makes it essential to use synergies at national, european and international level. systematic access by the tax authority to anti-money laundering information will allow for greater transparency and faster data processing, avoiding delays and dysfunctions in administrative cooperation between financial institutions. i am in favour of extending the automatic exchange of information to virtual currency exchange services and digit wallet service providers. in my view, however, there is a lack of a thorough analysis of the possible role played by the banking system and financial operators in money laundering. the commission should in fact make an ad hoc proposal providing for greater controls and transparency of banking and financial transactions and strict sanctions up to the withdrawal of the licence.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr maurel for his report. money laundering is a fraudulent activity that is now being carried out on a global scale and, as evidenced by several investigations, is closely linked to tax evasion and avoidance, but also to organised crime and terrorist financing. the european union must ensure that the tax authorities of the member states have equal and reciprocal access to tax information so that they can effectively carry out all the necessary monitoring and enforcement actions. and it is clear that there is a need for greater cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states, based on an automatic and mandatory exchange of information on anti-money laundering. in particular, i consider it essential that information and documents on the actual ownership of accounts by natural and legal persons, companies and trusts are exchanged. we can no longer accept that financial crimes are committed through intermediary structures, or that they benefit from unclear or inadequate rules and practices.
in writing. a serious fight against money laundering is one of the main tools to defeat both terrorism and organised crime of various kinds. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the tax authorities of the member states are not obliged to provide information on the taxable income of taxable persons resident in the member states. thanks to our contribution, the final text also includes a sanctioning mechanism for banks that facilitate money laundering, in order to discourage the phenomenon at its root and make recourse to it more "costly" and difficult. the fight against recycling is a front we are on and we will therefore continue to do everything in our power to help it to succeed.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns possible strategic cooperation between europol and ukraine, including on the exchange of personal data. it should be noted that this year parliament approved the new europol regulation and also new regulations concerning the protection and exchange of personal data. when these regulations come into force in 2017, parliament will have a strengthened role, with the possibility of expressing an opinion and not just consent as is currently the case. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukraine is an important partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership. the gabriel report, which i supported today, endorses the agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and ukraine, further strengthening ties with the country and enhancing the joint commitment to security and the fight against organised crime. the agreed text will in particular allow for a wider exchange of information on expertise, reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and training activities. cooperation will be strengthened on issues such as the fight against trafficking in human beings, economic and drug-related crime, mobile criminal groups and money laundering. the agreement will also provide for the exchange of personal data, taking into account the protection guarantees provided by ukraine and confirmed by the europol joint supervisory authority.
in writing. ‒ while i have always supported the agreements on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and third countries, i have seen in this text steps which could open up future criticisms and have therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution approving the agreement between ukraine and europol on their future cooperation because i firmly believe it may strengthen the fight against organised crime in europe by enabling parties of the agreement to exchange useful information.
in writing. ‒ the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol is a welcome step, which will help to strengthen cooperation in a difficult period in the history of the republic of ukraine, in the context of improved strategic and operational cooperation between the member states of the european union and allied countries with a view to combating terrorism, mafias, smuggling and international crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because, on a practical level, there is a clear need for europol to deepen operational cooperation with ukraine. ukraine is a key partner of the eu in the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are fundamental imperatives in order to fully achieve the objectives of the partnership. ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling, and in the fight against mobile organised crime groups. the exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat crime, terrorism and other forms of international organised crime more effectively. beyond the exchange of information, the agreement also opens up opportunities in terms of training and crime prevention activities. the conclusion of this cooperation agreement is a very concrete and important step towards ukraine becoming a key partner in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ the strategic and operational cooperation agreement under consideration between europol and ukraine provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. the new europol regulation, the regulation on the protection of personal data and the directive on the exchange of data in the course of investigations into serious crime or terrorism will all enter into force by may 2018. the new regulation on the agency for the conclusion of international agreements on strategic cooperation between europol and third countries also ensures greater involvement of parliament, which will be called upon to express an opinion rather than merely give its consent or disapproval. in anticipation of that possibility, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ europol has taken on a key role in the fight against crossborder crime and terrorist organisations. it is therefore our duty to facilitate any strategic agreement which will help to increase its investigative effectiveness and its operational capabilities. i believe that strategic cooperation with ukraine will be an essential resource for jointly addressing common challenges to security in europe, especially through the exchange of information, the establishment of contact points and training programmes. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i believe that this agreement is particularly important for ukraine. the agreement is a sign of confidence and encouragement for a hoped-for return to stability in a country that is still struggling to overcome a difficult phase in its history. i regret, however, that the european parliament was not given a more decisive role in the negotiation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report. while confirming the positive value of europol's cooperation agreements with third countries in the crossborder fight against terrorism and crime, i consider the abstention to be balanced in view of the recent anti-russian political action that the eu is taking in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ organized crime and lawlessness are ontologically indifferent to language, religion, political ideas and, above all, geographical areas. i can only urge the council to conclude as soon as possible an agreement between ukraine and europol for operational and strategic cooperation, since only through a prompt and lively exchange of information and technical information can positive results be achieved. on the one hand, it is essential to accompany ukraine on its path towards democracy and the full realisation of the rule of law, and therefore contributions in the field of training, exchange of experience and expertise and advice can support and facilitate crime prevention and resolution of criminal cases. on the other hand, the romans had already understood the strategic importance of the "cradle of europe" given its geographical position, which today makes ukraine a crossroads for drug trafficking, human trafficking and smuggling, in short, a very attractive place for organized crime. the union has a moral duty to combat such passages, the next step of which is to spread endemic problems at european level, which are well known to the authorities. i hope that my vote will make it possible to curb and cancel activities that are essential for the criminal enterprise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the measure under consideration is inherent in the proposal to approve the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, which includes personal data, the exchange of information which may include expertise, general reports, the results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support to individual criminal investigations. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are important aspects in order to fully achieve the objectives of the partnership.
in writing. ‒ the draft council implementing decision on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol represents an important step forward in the eu-ukraine partnership. this country is a key partner in the fight against international crime and the agreement, which provides for an operational cooperation framework for the exchange of information and personal data, represents a step forward in the management of security at european level. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the agreement reached will help to improve international cooperation in the fields of trafficking in human beings, criminal matters, the fight against transnational organized crime and training and crime prevention activities. in addition, this cooperation framework is consistent with the current rapprochement between ukraine and eu member states in other areas, such as the mobility of european and ukrainian citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, which includes personal data. ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership and security and the fight against crime are fundamental imperatives in order to fully achieve the objectives of the partnership. i believe that it is absolutely necessary to deepen operational cooperation with ukraine: improved information exchange will enable eu member states and ukraine to prevent and combat crime, terrorism and other forms of international organised crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because the eu's policy in ukraine is mainly anti-russian.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, because i believe that ukraine, overcoming its internal difficulties, will be a key partner of the eu in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i welcome the decision of the council, which is responsible for this matter, to conclude an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, as such cooperation at the level of 29 can bring important results in a number of areas such as human trafficking, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, falsification of identity documents, the financing of terrorism and the fight against radicalisation. the decision also has the effect of bringing this important partner closer to the eu, with important effects on other aspects of the eu-ukraine bilateral relationship: i am thinking, for example, of the training of police forces, the exchange of good practice, diplomatic cooperation and the increased mobility of citizens from both sides. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's call for personal data to be kept under review and for the modalities of cooperation in this area to be kept up to date.
in writing. i support this report, which analyses the proposal to conclude the agreement on strategic operational cooperation between ukraine and europol, including personal data. this cooperation aims to provide for the exchange of information concerning specific knowledge such as general reports, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, advice and support to individual criminal investigations. it is intended to apply from 1 may 2017 and, until then, the provisions in force in the council decision on europol will continue to apply. the exchange of information will allow the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat crime, terrorism and other forms of international organised crime more effectively, and will also provide benefits in terms of training and crime prevention activities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. according to the agreement, the european union will benefit from strengthening cooperation with ukraine, a country that plays a crucial role in the eastern partnership, security, and countering organized crime. in times when securing the european continent is challenging, exchange of operational, strategic, technical, or classified information will certainly contribute to control terrorism, human trafficking, and other kinds of international malicious activities more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the conclusion of an agreement between europol and ukraine for a mutual exchange of information is appropriate in order to facilitate the entry of the country among eu member states, also considering that ukraine is a key partner in the fight against organised crime. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft under consideration concerns the proposal to approve the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. the terms of cooperation shall provide for the exchange of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support to individual criminal investigations. i believe there is a clear need for europol to deepen operational cooperation with ukraine, as a key partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership. i strongly support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine, as it would help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to improving international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other important criminal matters. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament approved the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european police office (europol). the agreement is of major importance in strengthening the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling, and in the fight against mobile organised crime groups. in the framework of the eastern partnership, ukraine is a key partner in the achievement of the core objectives of the eastern partnership, such as security and the fight against crime. there is therefore a clear operational need for europol to cooperate with ukraine. the key to success in the fight against organised crime lies in the exchange of information and expertise on criminal groups at eu level and with the countries concerned, such as ukraine in this case. europol can play a key role in this context in order to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of concluding this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. in practice, we need europol to deepen operational cooperation with ukraine, which is an important partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are imperative to achieve this.
in writing. ‒ the following dossier concerns the waiver of the immunity of french member of parliament jean-françois jalkh, accused by the association "maison des potes - maison de l'égalité" of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion. the accusation was made following statements made by jean-françois jalkh in a pamphlet entitled "manual for the local councillors of the front national". since i consider it unfair and unacceptable to make statements which imply any kind of discrimination, i have decided to vote in favour of the french member's immunity being waived.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of mr jalkh's immunity. the honourable member was charged by the association 'maison des potes maison de l'égalité' with the alleged offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion in relation to statements made in a booklet entitled 'handbook for local councillors of the front national', published on 19 september 2013 and posted on the official website of the federation of the front national on 30 november 2013. the commission found that there was no link between the controversial statements and the parliamentary duties of jean-françois jalkh and, not suspecting the presence of fumus persecutionis, decided to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i took part in the vote on the chrysogonos report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it was clear from the analysis of the facts presented by the prosecutor general at the court of appeal in versailles that the commission of the alleged offence, denounced by the association 'maison des potes - maison de l'égalité', did not take place during the period in which jean-francois jalkh was a member of the european parliament and, given the absence of a fumus persecutionis against the member, there was no reason to maintain immunity.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary immunity conferred by article 8 of the protocol applies only to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament in the performance of their duties. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this decision, since there is no direct and obvious link between the statements in question and the duties of mr jalkh as a member of the european parliament, and these statements, made in the context of a national political debate, are not related to his activity as a member of the european parliament or to the policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ the following dossier concerns the waiver of the immunity of french member of parliament jean-françois jalkh, accused by the bureau national de vigilance contre l'antisémitisme of public incitement to discrimination, hatred and violence. the accusation was made because jean-françois jalkh was the director in charge of publications on the front national website who published an interview containing a very violent sentence. i consider these statements to be absolutely unacceptable and the fact that they have been made public is equally serious, and for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the instructions of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of mr jalkh's immunity. the honourable member was charged by the bureau national de vigilance contre l'antisémitisme for the alleged offence of public incitement to discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or religion in relation to statements made by jean-marie le pen during an interview published on the website frontnational.com, for which mr jalkh was the director responsible for publications. the commission found that there was no link between the post held at that time and the parliamentary duties of mr jalkh and, not suspecting the presence of fumus persecutionis, decided to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i took part in the vote on the chrysogonos report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it was apparent from the analysis of the facts presented by the prosecutor general at the court of appeal in versailles that the commission of the alleged offence, denounced by the association 'bureau national de vigilance contre l'antisémitisme' (bncva), did not take place during the period in which jean-francois jalkh was a member of the european parliament and, given the absence of a fumus persecutionis against the member, there was no reason to maintain immunity.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary immunity conferred by article 8 of the protocol applies only to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament in the performance of their duties. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this decision because, since there is no direct and obvious link between the statements in question and the duties of mr jalkh as a member of the european parliament, these statements, made in the context of a national political debate, are not related to his activity as a member of the european parliament or to the policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the dodds report on the establishment of a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. this is an important text updating regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 with a view to improving and clarifying some of the provisions contained therein. the scientific evaluation of the current legislative text has shown that there are some problems, particularly with regard to the strategy for managing stocks in the north sea. the amendments adopted today will bring the regulation into line with the new common fisheries policy by introducing a landing obligation and prohibiting discards. the new measures will make it possible to obtain more accurate data on actual catches and thus ensure better planning. the long-term plan aims to maintain cod stocks above levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield, thus promoting a fishery that is profitable for fishermen and sustainable for the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ there are some important criticisms in the text which have convinced me not to support this new long-term plan for cod stocks. we need much more to revive fishing, to put our fishermen and the fishermen of the whole sector back to work, who expect less obstacles and more support from the union.
in writing. ‒ today we have approved the new cod stock regulation which is in line with the reform of the common fisheries policy, particularly in terms of definitions and objectives. the rules currently governing the setting of annual catch limits by the council would be replaced by this new regulation with the obligation to respect the precautionary principle, together with a system of fishing authorizations and fishing capacity ceilings. it seems to me a very good result and a step in the right direction. in 2012, the council adopted on its own initiative, bypassing the european parliament, several measures to amend the fisheries management plan for a number of cod stocks in european seas. this regulation, which was only enacted by the council, has been annulled by the european court of justice. today we finally have a new regulation, based on the appropriate legal basis of 'co-decision', which makes it possible to adapt the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
in writing. ‒ in june 2016, agreement was reached between parliament, the commission and the council to amend the 2008 regulation establishing a long-term management plan for cod stocks and the new rules will enter into force on 10 january 2017. the plan identified is in line with the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and includes the obligation to respect a precautionary approach, as well as a system of fishing authorisations and capacity limits. i therefore voted in favour of adopting it.
in writing. ‒ i support the long-term plan as i believe it is essential to implement the principles of the new common fisheries policy and to support its implementation, in order to avoid the mismatches that have been created in the market due to the application of unequal and tendentious national regulations, as well as the frequent damage to biodiversity and the ecosystem due to lack of controls. i hope that this orientation in the north sea will continue to be fully represented. however, i am concerned to recall how often the increasing and unfair competition that the mediterranean countries face from non-european countries, where fishing is poor, uncontrolled and certainly not in line with the health regulations, is overlooked in fisheries policies. more attention should be paid to this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure approving the advance agreement at second reading reached between parliament and the council in june 2016. the draft regulation puts an end to the complicated fishing regime currently in force since 2008 which has failed to improve the state of cod stocks in the north sea. the amendments introduced, which take account, among other things, of the introduction of the landing obligation in the plan areas and which guarantee greater flexibility in the definition of tacs and total allowable quotas, are in my view improvements on the present situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to support the council's position on the amendment of the long-term plan for fisheries exploiting cod stocks. in fact, i believe that the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 in order to improve and clarify its provisions is of fundamental importance to ensure the implementation of a sustainable plan for cod fisheries and related activities, in line with the principles of the new common fisheries policy. this is also an important achievement for the european parliament, which, as confirmed by the opinion of the court of justice, has legislative power on fisheries policies under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as this is a necessary and long overdue measure. the file on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 has been stalled for almost four years because of the institutional clash between the commission, parliament and council, which has seen them challenge the applicable legislative procedure before the court of justice. this conflict has effectively paralysed a process of adaptation of eu legislation that is badly needed in view of the reform of the common fisheries policy and the recent introduction of the landing obligation and rules on unwanted catches. i therefore think it is important that, while member states are still waiting to draw up their multiannual plans for multispecies fisheries, the existing regulation should be amended to ensure the survival of cod stocks and to provide legal certainty for european fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there is no doubt that the need to protect fish stocks must be very carefully combined with the need for flexibility. it is difficult to explain why brussels is the one to decide the size of the nets, the size of the clams, the quantity of fish caught. there are sectors, i am thinking of fishing but also of agriculture, where the link between worker and resource goes far beyond the profession. the fisherman with the sea, the farmer with the land: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the largest fishing district in my region, mazara del vallo, the number of deep-sea fishing vessels has fallen from 400 to 80. fishing in a border area makes it even clearer to fishermen that the european fisheries policy is strong with the member states and weak with the non-member countries. with these rules and these production costs, our fish will never be as competitive as the libyan, egyptian, tunisian, let alone the philippine. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. the current fishing regime in force since 2008 should be discontinued as it has not been able to improve the stock of north sea cod. in april 2016, a mandate was adopted by the pech committee for negotiations with the council. the agreement, which implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy by supporting its implementation, was approved by the same pech committee in july 2016. it provided for the application of certain amendments aimed at introducing the landing obligation in the areas of the plan, ensuring greater flexibility in the fishing pattern and the total allowable quotas. the new proposal will enter into force in january 2017 and will be valid until the adoption of the new multiannual north sea management plan, which was recently submitted to the european commission. for these reasons, i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation puts an end to the complicated fishing regime currently in place since 2008, which has failed to improve the state of cod stocks in the north sea. the amendments introduced take account of the introduction of the landing obligation in the plan areas and provide for greater flexibility in the definition of tacs and total allowable quotas. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe it is right to safeguard the existence of marine fauna, in particular that of cod, by setting stock limits. one of the main concerns with regulation (ec) no 1342/2008, which is the subject of the second reading, is caused by the setting of the tac (total allowable catch), which has not led to a reduction in cod catches. in fact, in some member states the discard limits established for fishing activities are not respected. moreover, the regulation entered into force long before the treaty of lisbon and may have to be applied until a new mixed fisheries plan is identified. but at the same time i think that the needs of the citizens of the european union who live off fishing alone must be taken into account. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation aims to ensure the long-term sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield. i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement reached between the council and parliament, which is a sure step forward towards the timely implementation of the new principles of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the matter has been referred to the court of justice by the european parliament and the commission, because we considered that the council's decision to split the proposal for a long-term plan for cod stocks was unlawful. the judgment annulled the council regulation and the co-legislators are therefore required to adopt a new text by the end of the year in order to ensure legal certainty. after the court's ruling, the pech committee adopted a mandate for negotiations with the council and the file was closed. the agreement, which implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation, was approved by the committee. the s&d group actively contributed to the swift adoption of the plan in order to ensure legal certainty for fishermen: we have ensured that the plan in question respects the principles of cfp reform.
i voted in favour of this report because the fight against fraud, tax evasion and money laundering must be a priority for the european union. it's about justice, about fairness: it's a matter of policy. in recent years, most citizens of the european union have faced an unprecedented economic crisis. in recent years, tax fraud has become increasingly common - the panama papers speak for themselves - and scandals have involved former european union commissioners. it is time to clarify matters, to strengthen cooperation and to allow the transfer of tax information which can lead quickly to investigations. european taxpayers are often forced to close down their businesses. they are not afraid of transparency, nor of controls: they fear being governed by crooks and evaders, they distrust the institutions that protect their interests and seem to side with the big corporations. europe must choose and it must choose with facts.
in writing. ‒ the following report deals with the revision of the directive on the automatic exchange of information in tax and taxation matters. i think it is of the utmost importance to put in place mechanisms that ensure transparency and make money laundering difficult. a step in this direction would certainly be to make the exchange of information mandatory and automatic, to avoid a repetition of events such as luxleaks and the panama papers. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is a very topical issue, one made even more central by the panama papers investigations which have rightly caused a stir in public opinion worldwide and within the union, also because of the important figures involved. the maurel report, which i supported with my vote today, is a joint response by the european institutions to the persisting phenomenon of tax evasion. the new measures are designed to reinforce the commission's proposal by allowing the tax authorities of each member state to access and share all information on bank current account holders, with particular attention to their income, interest and dividends. the new legislation is aimed at identifying the evaders, rendering ineffective those tools, legal devices and entities, which are used today to cover up these illegal operations. we must not forget that there are very strong links between evasion, money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ the subject of the report is certainly interesting and noteworthy. i am not convinced, however, that an eu advisory opinion can make an effective contribution to the fight against money laundering and to preventing cases such as luxleaks and the panama papers. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments proposed by my colleague and rapporteur mr maurel because i think that combating tax evasion and tax avoidance is a political priority for the european union. in this regard, a skilled staff is needed in order to facilitate a rapid and complete exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is pursuing a programme against tax evasion and avoidance to ensure fairer and more effective taxation in the eu. significant progress has been made in strengthening tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations across the union. member states have agreed on new rules for the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings and tax returns. the eu tax transparency programme is of key importance in identifying and tackling tax evasion effectively, as tax authorities need wider access to information on the beneficial ownership of intermediary entities and other relevant information on customer due diligence. this requires the effective and rapid implementation of the global standard for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, implemented by directive 2014/107/eu, which also ensures that information on the holders of financial accounts is transmitted to the member state in which the account holder is resident. in the absence of anti-money laundering information, tax authorities will not be able to monitor, verify and confirm whether financial institutions are properly applying the administrative cooperation directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report in question, which allows automatic access to money laundering information by the tax authorities of the member states. systematic access by tax authorities to anti-money laundering information will allow for greater transparency and faster identification and processing of data, avoiding delays and dysfunctions in administrative cooperation by financial institutions. the directive will apply to taxes of all kinds levied by or on behalf of a member state or the territorial or administrative subdivisions of a member state, including local authorities, as well as to virtual currency exchange services and digital wallet service providers. member states will have to ensure that all information exchanged and obtained is subject to timely investigation, regardless of whether such information was obtained by the authorities upon request, through a spontaneous exchange of information or through public leaks.
in writing. ‒ the directive implementing global standards for the automatic exchange of tax information is under review and the proposal introduces the possibility for national tax authorities to access anti-money laundering information. this will help to combat terrorist financing, corruption and other criminal activities. the exchange of information should be automatic and compulsory, in order to ensure maximum transparency, as the honourable member's report intends. thanks to our contribution, the report also includes a sanctioning mechanism for banks that facilitate money laundering, such as the withdrawal of a banking licence. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ abstention from this report on strengthening anti-money laundering rules at european level. the legislative intervention, while laudable in its intentions, comes at a cost (see panama papers and the like) and will not be decisive in preventing new cases.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the panama papers and other news reports, it is a priority for the union to take political and diplomatic action against operations that conceal tax fraud, tax evasion and money laundering, and i therefore welcome the measure. the effective fight against phenomena such as tax evasion, avoidance and aggressive tax planning requires the continued implementation of a community standard for the automatic exchange of information on the holders of contested financial accounts and intermediaries. in the expectation and hope that this format will be applied globally, the states are invited to produce information of the same quality, since only through the compatibility of the same and the connected reading systems does the automatic standard become operational. of course, the work of the authorities is dictated and proceeds along the lines of transparency implemented by the citizens. they must not only comply with the law but also act in accordance with the rules on transparency, so as not to further complicate an already flawed framework. however, the freedoms of citizens must be preserved and parliament must not set up systems which suppress fundamental rights or discourage economic activity through bureaucratic constraints.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i believe it is very useful to allow tax authorities to have systematic access to anti-money laundering information for the performance of their functions of monitoring the correct application of the administrative cooperation directive by financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the maurel report. following recent scandals such as luxleaks and the panama papers, there was a great deal of expectation of a european response in the tax field. the report aims to facilitate greater and more effective controls that can limit and combat corruption, money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance in europe. we know very well that this is necessary, also in the fight against terrorism, because greater controls make it difficult for armed terrorist groups to carry out transactions and move large sums of money. an important feature to be highlighted is the new possibility for an automatic and mandatory exchange of information between tax authorities and banks in order to ensure greater transparency, and also a sanctioning mechanism providing for the withdrawal of the banking license in the event of a proven accusation of money laundering.
in writing. ‒ the amendments to the fourth anti-money laundering directive, proposed by the commission in july 2016, are important to improve the identification of money laundering, corruption, terrorism, financing and other criminal activities. the objective of this report is to enable tax authorities to have constant access to anti-money laundering information in order to exercise their prerogatives in monitoring the correct application of the administrative cooperation directive by financial institutions. i believe that this is a fundamental issue to be addressed at this critical time in the fight against terrorism. we have succeeded in supplementing the commission's text in such a way that the exchange of information between tax authorities on anti-money laundering is mandatory and automatic. this was the positive result of our negotiations and i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the report is late and merely gives an 'advisory' opinion.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the legislative amendments to this important text, which i have had the opportunity to follow in person in the committee on legal affairs. this reform also allows national tax authorities to have access to information required under anti-money laundering rules. this is a significant step forward as the capacities and competences of tax authorities vary widely from country to country: the amendments to the fourth anti-money laundering directive will allow for better cooperation between tax authorities and better identification of movements at risk of evasion, avoidance and economic crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards tax authorities' access to anti-money laundering information, because the key purpose of the initiative is to enable tax authorities to have more consistent access to anti-money laundering information, in application of the directive on administrative cooperation between financial institutions, which is the regulatory framework for many of the eu's actions in the field of tax transparency. the mandatory exchange of anti-money laundering information between tax authorities is a new milestone in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering in the eu. the link between tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering requires the greatest possible use of the synergies resulting from cooperation at national, european and international level between the various authorities involved in the fight against such crimes and abuses. the emergence of scandals such as swissleaks, luxleaks and the panama papers have confirmed the absolute need for greater tax transparency, and closer coordination and cooperation between jurisdictions. i therefore agreed with the commission's call to examine the possible role of the banking system and financial operators in promoting money laundering.
in writing. the report adopted today aims to enable tax authorities to have systematic access to anti-money laundering information and to carry out their monitoring functions on the correct and proper application of the administrative cooperation directive. this is to strengthen eu and international transparency measures, so that tax authorities can have as much information as possible about customers, also preventing tax evasion. in order to provide for mechanisms of this magnitude, it is necessary that member states exchange information and documents relating to financial movements in a fully automated manner. directive 849/2015/eu will allow them to access such information in the course of monitoring the correct application of the rules on the automatic exchange of tax information. finally, access to such information will ensure that tax authorities are better prepared to fulfil their monitoring obligations and thus be able to prevent tax evasion and tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to anti-money-laundering information by tax authorities. cooperation, in the form of information exchange, is crucial for member states to be able to combat tax fraud, tax evasion, and money laundering. with scandals such as the panama papers, luxleaks and bahamas leaks, to name a few, taking over the world, it is necessary to develop a new set of measures for greater tax transparency. one of those measures includes automatic exchange of tax information and hence, one reason for my positive vote. finally, yet importantly, the exchange should go hand in hand with improved technology that can trace money-laundering activities.
in writing. ‒ the access of tax authorities to anti-money laundering information varies considerably between member states. even where this access is guaranteed, the authorities still face significant obstacles that undermine the effectiveness of their work in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. for these reasons, it is of paramount importance to support measures to ensure the identification of these practices, which are often linked to corruption, terrorist financing and other criminal activities. the revelations, such as those in the luxleaks and panama papers cases, have confirmed the absolute need for greater tax transparency and closer coordination and cooperation between national jurisdictions. that is why i supported the proposal to set up a comprehensive central register of all beneficial owners of companies and trusts. i also believe that tax authorities should have horizontal access to information that can maximise their ability to tackle tax evasion and avoidance. an automatic and mandatory exchange of anti-money laundering information between the tax authorities of the different member states is therefore a fundamental step in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. the gravity and persistence of these phenomena call for immediate political action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the objective of this initiative is to allow tax authorities to have systematic access to anti-money laundering information. an automatic, mandatory and constant exchange of information in tax matters between the various competent authorities is essential in order to ensure maximum transparency and to have a basic tool to prevent and combat all types of fraudulent behaviour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the only way to prevent the concealment of offshore funds is to ensure that the european union develops a tax transparency programme between member states, which allows for an automatic and mandatory exchange of information. the adoption of this proposal would also allow tax authorities to have faster access to information to prevent money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. however, i believe that these functions should not be overstepped, since data protected by the right to privacy must also be respected. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance must remain a priority for the european union. it is in everyone's interest that tax authorities have the most effective tools to do their job better, recover important resources (especially in times of economic difficulties like the one we are going through) and ensure greater tax fairness for all citizens. this report supports the commission's proposals to amend the fourth anti-money laundering directive and the administrative cooperation directive in order to facilitate the identification of those responsible for illegal activities and access to information for tax authorities. in addition, thanks to the efforts of our group, the report calls for the exchange of information between tax authorities to be made compulsory and automatic. at present, rules on access to anti-money laundering information vary considerably between member states and, even where such access is formally guaranteed, cooperation by financial institutions is unsatisfactory and authorities encounter significant obstacles that limit the effectiveness of their activities. it is therefore only right that the commission should work to improve the regulatory framework and that the european parliament should support these efforts.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is pursuing an ambitious programme against tax evasion and avoidance, to ensure fairer and more effective taxation in the eu. improving tax transparency is a key element of this programme. the member states have agreed on new rules for the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings and country-by-country tax returns by multinational companies. recent media leaks revealing large-scale offshore fund concealment confirm the importance of the eu's tax transparency programme. without access to such anti-money laundering information by tax authorities, the effectiveness of the monitoring of financial institutions in relation to the application of the administrative cooperation directive would be significantly reduced. in the absence of such information, the authorities concerned will not be able to monitor, verify and confirm whether financial institutions are properly applying the directive. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the directive implementing the global standards for the exchange of information on taxation has been revised to allow national tax authorities to access the information they need to effectively combat money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activities. parliament's amendments strengthened the commission's proposal by requiring that the exchange of information be made automatic and compulsory. in particular, our amendments have denounced the need - following the recent scandals such as luxleaks, swill leaks, the panama papers - for coordinated action at eu level to combat money laundering, organised crime, the financing of terrorism and tax evasion and avoidance at european level. we strongly supported the call to promote the automatic and mandatory exchange of information and stressed the importance of strengthening the sanction mechanism against banks that facilitate money laundering, whose banking licence should be revoked in the most serious cases of infringement. our amendments were incorporated in the final text, which was generally balanced. we believe that the revision of the directive is a step in the right direction, which is why we voted in favour of it in committee and in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution to give the green light to a proposal which will allow the exchange of sensitive information between tax authorities concerning money laundering. with this new proposal, europe will make further progress in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. the initiative aims to give tax authorities access to all information in order to combat the shadow economy. the main objective of our group was to make the exchange of information between tax authorities compulsory and automatic.
in writing. ‒ today we approved the revision of the directive implementing the global standards for the automatic exchange of information in tax matters. this revision introduces the possibility for national tax authorities to access anti-money laundering information in order to combat terrorist financing, corruption and other criminal activities. parliament's amendments have even improved this review. the rapporteur has in fact introduced the possibility that such an exchange of information could be automatic and compulsory. the amendments i tabled to the text denounced the need for coordinated action at eu level following the recent scandals such as luxleaks, swissleaks and the panama papers, and the need to respond in a unambiguous way to the problem of money laundering, the financing of organised crime, tax evasion and avoidance at european level. i also reiterated the call for the automatic and mandatory exchange of information to be encouraged in order to ensure maximum transparency and for a sanction mechanism to be introduced for banks that facilitate money laundering, such as the withdrawal of banking licences. i voted in favour of the text, which calls for greater transparency and security.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses what the european central bank did in 2016. it is clear to everyone that the greatest economic problems facing the member states today are the excessively high unemployment rate and the rising rate of inflation, the cause of which can be attributed to the imposition of a fixed exchange rate system linked to the adoption of the single currency. however, the report makes no mention of these issues, and widely praises the unconventional measures taken by the ecb to address the above issues. since it is extremely clear that the measures implemented by the central bank have had no positive effect and have, on the contrary, encouraged speculation on the financial markets, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the euro area continues to suffer from the negative effects of the economic crisis, with important consequences reflected in persistently high unemployment rates, extremely low inflation and wide macroeconomic imbalances. the ecb has sought to intervene in recent years by easing its monetary policy, reducing interest rates to unprecedented levels. the tremosa i balcells report, which i have supported today, gives a positive assessment of the work done by the european central bank in the last year, approving in particular the expansionary monetary policies it has adopted. however, support for the action promoted by president draghi is coupled with the awareness of the need for wider action to accompany these policies. the first priority must be to support investment at community level and to develop socially sustainable programmes of structural reform involving all the member states. the main objective must be to boost employment and aggregate demand. the ecb needs to do more to ensure that liquidity reaches the real economy, ensuring that banks take advantage of low interest rates to favour lending to smes, which are not only the backbone of the european economy but also a great hope for a rapid recovery.
in writing. ‒ given the ineffectiveness of the economic policies put in place by the ecb to deal with the crisis in the markets, given the banking crisis that is sinking the savings of italians due to measures such as the 'bail in' and the economic forecasts of another year of recession at european level, i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the resolution on the european central bank annual report for 2015 particularly because it stressed the lack of investment, the failure in carrying out structural reforms and the weakness of the internal demand in the euro area identifying the right problems we must deal with. furthermore, it supported the recent ecb’s work by underling some priorities which concern the parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament reiterates that the euro area is suffering from high unemployment and low inflation and productivity growth. in addition, the high public debt and the huge number of non-performing loans in the banking sector of some member states are causing a fragmentation in the financial market which reduces the flexibility in supporting the more fragile economies. the ecb is, however, credited with effectively adopting measures to bring inflation back to the 2% medium-term objective and, through the asset purchase programme, the real economy is seen to have improved, with a consequent strengthening of lending to firms and households. the european parliament agrees with president draghi that monetary policy cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless it is accompanied by sound fiscal policies and ambitious reform programmes in each member state. the ecb is also called upon to beware of too long a period of low interest rate policy, which could put financial stability at risk; the commission has also been asked to assess the risk of a new housing bubble resulting from these excessively low interest rates. it recalls that the independence of the ecb in the conduct of its monetary policy is fundamental to the objective of maintaining price stability.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the european central bank's annual report 2015, as i consider that the adoption of structural resources, the development of which is a cornerstone of the ecb's policy of stimulus and protection, is of crucial importance. although the economy is recovering, it has emerged from years of crisis and is still showing all its fragility. in this context, the ecb's actions are a valuable bulwark for the financial world and a sure counter to market volatility. it should be noted that the distortive effects of a 'hard brexit' and the us scenario of trump's election are not conducive to a financial economic equilibrium in the euro area. i therefore welcome the report and the ecb's commitment to 'do whatever is necessary' to defend the euro, which i believe it is doing.
in writing. ‒ the report, for which i thought i would vote in favour, gives a positive assessment of the work of the european central bank (ecb) in 2015. although the expansionary monetary policies implemented by the ecb are aimed at stimulating growth and job creation, i regret that these have not been accompanied by an adequate level of investment, thus achieving limited effects on the real economy. i believe that the negative interest rate policy has had a positive effect on the soundness of banks but that it is necessary to assess carefully the consequences of such an unconventional monetary policy on individual savers and on the financial balance of pension schemes, as well as in terms of the development of speculative bubbles, particularly in the real estate sector. i believe that an efficient, diversified and integrated capital market must be built by fully implementing the banking union and aiming at a true capital markets union. i regret that, despite the ecb's specific commitment to this end, there is still a significant gap between the rates of financing granted to smes and those granted to larger companies. in this respect, i share the report's call for a stronger link between the central bank's liquidity provision and the provision of loans to the real economy.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank's disappointing report on the common monetary policies. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ uncertainty is undoubtedly the worst of all evils. however, i am inclined to see it as the perfect condition for encouraging people to discover their own capacities and therefore i support the ecb's outlook for 2015 and the future. in its efforts to maintain monetary stability and promote the smooth functioning of the payments system, the ecb expects inflation to be close to 0,2% in 2016 and rising in 2017. this is becoming difficult to achieve because of the unfavourable macroeconomic situation. while there is no doubt that structural reforms are needed to combat, in addition to the above, stable unemployment and low productivity, there is no doubt that the level of risk that the ecb's budget is reaching in implementing the established programmes is equally unquestionable. i am also concerned about the impact of these transactions on the real economy. the lack of follow-up on the recovery of investment and consumption is proof of this. in addition to the above, it is regrettable to note the gap between the rates of financing granted to banks and to firms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report as i share the basic elements represented in the text concerning the ecb's activities. the report also provides a balanced assessment of the interactions between monetary policies, structural reforms and low interest rate policy risks. the report makes frequent references to the negative effect of the high unemployment rate in the euro area and the very low level of productivity growth, mainly due to the lack of investment and structural reforms. i agree that the single monetary policy cannot, on its own, be able to stimulate demand and growth unless it is supplemented by sound budgetary policies and structural reforms by the member states.
in writing. ‒ every year parliament is called upon to vote on the report on the ecb and this year i am forced to disagree and express my negative opinion on the report presented as it only partially analyses the work of the central bank. the analysis is not very objective, praising the work of the ecb without any real criticism of it. i would also stress that the ecb should consider as soon as possible an opt-out mechanism allowing member states to opt out of the euro area should this be deemed necessary.
in writing. ‒ the report provides a generally positive assessment of the ecb 's monetary policies with clear references to: asset purchase programme, main refinancing operations and targeted longer-term refinancing operations. the report underlines that the euro area continues to suffer from high unemployment, excessively low inflation, large macroeconomic imbalances, including current account imbalances, and a very low level of productivity growth, which is the result of a lack of investment, the inability to implement structural reforms and weak domestic demand. this clear reference to the lack of investment is something that we, as a group of socialists and democrats, have insisted on very strongly, and i believe that it is a central point in our struggle. the report also calls for the step-by-step completion and full implementation of the banking union, the capital markets union and a solution to the problem of non-performing loans to improve the effectiveness of monetary policy and mitigate the risks of a financial sector shock. i therefore think that this text is acceptable, although further steps could have been taken to emphasize, in line with the commission's proposals, the need for a positive fiscal stance.
in writing. ‒ the ecb's activity has been detrimental since its inception, i.e. since the start of monetary union in a non-optimal currency area. austerity, unemployment, privatisation, the selling off of strategic assets of member states in difficulty, cuts in investment, wages, workers' rights, the closure of small and mediumsized enterprises: these are just some of the tangible effects that millions and millions of european citizens have paid for on their own skin. the ecb's replies were inadequate in terms of timing and manner. from quantitative easing to low interest rates, every measure imagined to be an immediate and temporary response to a lack of liquidity and access to credit has turned into a quicksand, with a real deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, which in turn has led to the need to call for structural reforms and the capital markets union. these are described as a lifeline for citizens, while they do nothing more than guarantee the profitability of banks and financial entities. the political, economic and social consequences of the euro and the dictates of the ecb are very serious and it is not possible to support those who actually induce poverty in order to save the euro and the profits of the banks. for these reasons, i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the ecb, which is too biased and unrealistic.
in writing. ‒ i share the tone of the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which expresses a very positive assessment of the ecb's work, in particular in relation to monetary policies to support growth and the financing of long-term operations. i would also like to stress the serious economic difficulties of the euro area reflected in the report, in the first place employment, low inflation, macroeconomic imbalances, low productivity, a serious lack of investment, the delay in structural reforms in the countries and extreme weakness of demand. it is important to me that the s&d group's priorities in support of the expansionary monetary policy pursued by mario draghi are well represented, in particular because it has stressed that the ecb's choices alone cannot correct the euro area's shortcomings and must therefore be accompanied by socially balanced investment and structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report 2015 because i believe that monetary policy and in particular the unconventional quantitative easing measures implemented by the ecb are in line with the price stability objectives and consistent with its mandate, but above all because they have been decisive in preserving the integrity of the euro area, protecting it from deflation and contributing to the economic recovery, which is still uncertain in many euro area states. this report provides the european parliament with an opportunity to take stock of the policy mix of structural reforms and fiscal policies in the euro area, but also to note the need for greater growth orientation of these policies through public and private investment that strengthens territorial cohesion, and the effects of monetary policies on the european financial system, which is now much stronger in terms of capital, leverage, financing and risk-taking. as stated by president draghi, the common equity tier 1 of the significant banking groups in the eurozone is now over 14%. finally, the issue of bank profitability and, above all, the completion of the banking union, through the creation of the third pillar (edis) and the creation of a final public backstop under the second pillar, remains open.
in writing. the report highlights that the euro area continues to suffer from the negative effects of high unemployment, inflation and macroeconomic imbalances, and a still very low level of growth. in the light of these issues, the measures taken by the ecb to bring inflation back to the mediumterm inflation target of 2% appear to be consistent with the terms of its mandate. the ecb has contributed to the climate of confidence by countering risks to the integrity of the euro area, mainly related to the events in greece over the past year. on the basis of the implementation of targeted programmes for the long-term refinancing of the real economy, financial conditions have improved, facilitating a recovery in lending to firms and households in the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a favourable vote for the report on the european central bank annual report for 2015. supporting the report represents our commitment to reducing unemployment, government deficit, macroeconomic imbalances, and the debt-to-gdp ratio in the euro area. 2015 represented a year of recovery for the euro area economy and, therefore, the report represents a means to encourage european institutions to further cooperate and strengthen consumer confidence to boost spending, which in turn represents resuming hiring and investing. the report by the ecb shows areas of weakness that need improvement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that, despite the fact that the euro area is still facing a negative period due to high unemployment, worryingly low inflation and continuing macroeconomic imbalances, the ecb is acting firmly in the face of the crisis. the commission has also received comments from the bank of greece, the bank of greece's supervisory board and the bank of greece's supervisory board on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines on the application of the new guidelines. in june 2016 the ecb launched a series of long-term refinancing operations (tltro ii), but for this to succeed, structural reform for individual member states and full implementation of the banking union by them are necessary. at the same time, it seems appropriate to ask the commission to ensure that the vulnerability of the banking sector is subject to increased supervision. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report because, while it approves of the monetary policy of expansion pursued by the european central bank, it also stresses that the ecb alone cannot sufficiently stimulate aggregate demand, but that it must be accompanied by ambitious and socially balanced investment and structural reforms by the member states. the euro area continues to be characterised by high unemployment, too low inflation and weak productivity growth. all these are important signs of a lack of investment, of the lack of adequate structural reforms and of weak domestic demand. the report also rightly criticises the fact that the ecb's expansionary policy has had a limited effect on the real economy, because banks have used cheap credit to settle their accounts rather than to finance economic and productive activities. i therefore join the call on the ecb to be more vigilant in ensuring that the resources it puts in place are translated into financing for the real economy and, in particular, for smes.
in writing. ‒ the euro area continues to suffer from the negative effects of high unemployment and wide macroeconomic imbalances. the annual report for 2015 focuses on the core elements of the ecb's activities, namely monetary policies. it provides an assessment of the interactions between monetary policies and structural reforms implemented by the various member states. i believe that the creation of a capital markets union, as well as better cooperation between national economic policies within the eu, can be a decisive step towards improving the effectiveness of the single monetary policy, while also reducing the recurrence of damage from a financial sector shock, similar to that of 2008. i voted in favour of approving the ecb's annual report.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the data, albeit modest, on economic growth, i would like to encourage the ecb to continue to develop a programme of structural reforms in the eu member states. i also stress the importance of a strong strengthening of the powers of the single supervisory mechanism. in conjunction with the monetary policy programmes, the completion of the banking union would provide a window of opportunity for competitiveness to grow in the coming years, with a view to returning inflation to the 2% target. policies to stimulate the economy must be combined with the fight against unemployment, which must be considered an urgent matter and which continues to be one of the causes of the slow economic recovery. despite falling from 2015 levels, there are still significant disparities between european countries, with 24% unemployment in greece and 6% in germany, all the more alarming when looking at youth unemployment figures. it is crucial to address the consolidation of public deficits in a timely manner by highlighting the key role of governments, by giving impetus to policies of growth and support for disadvantaged groups, from research to integration policies.
in writing. i voted against this parliament's report on the ecb's annual report 2015 because it expresses a completely distorted and short-sighted view of reality. this is mere pro-ecb and pro-euro propaganda, which seems to ignore completely the real causes of the problems and the clear failure of monetary policy to counter the crisis. the text celebrates the success of monetary policy and blames the failure of the member states to achieve economic recovery on the failure to fully implement the absurd and unsustainable structural reforms imposed by the commission. the report is clearly unbalanced and even incomplete, as it does not express any critical remarks on the controversial role of the ecb in the troika and especially on the conflicts of interest and the strong asymmetries of the new banking supervision function. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ as every year, we voted on the ecb report. this year the report is particularly controversial: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity and is designed to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. all the ecb's unconventional policies are labelled as successful and the complete independence of the frankfurt bank is emphasised repeatedly. on the contrary, the capacity of states to carry out structural reforms is repeatedly called into question and the failure of policies not provided for in the treaties is blamed on them. no criticism of the ecb's role in banking supervision, let alone in the troika. as i have already done in the econ committee, i voted against this report, with particular reference to the fact that the unconventional policies of the ecb have not only proved to be useless because they have not helped the real economy, but have also been harmful in that, by providing liquidity to the market, they have encouraged speculative activities by banks and increased the risk of speculative bubbles.
in writing. the report, which is submitted annually by the ecb to parliament, describes the measures and policies adopted by the ecb in monetary matters during 2015. in this document all the ecb's unconventional policies are identified as successful policies. instead, the capacity of the states to carry out structural reforms is called into question and the failure of policies not provided for by the treaties but put in place by the ecb is blamed on them. again, we find no criticism of the ecb's role in banking supervision. we in the five star group have tabled amendments which show that the unconventional policies adopted by the ecb have not only proved to be useless because they have not helped the real economy, but have also been harmful. the injection of liquidity into the market has in fact encouraged speculative activities by banks and thus increased the risk of speculative bubbles. the ecb also needs to put an end to an excessive interpretation of its founding treaty, by taking on more functions than originally envisaged, such as participation in the troika and more recently eu banking supervision (ssm). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the following report concerns the creation of a single european market in retail financial services. the report lacks any critical analysis of the consequences of the creation of a single european market. contrary to what is described in the report, the consequences would be very negative, especially for private investors and smes, who would find their access to the markets very restricted. i believe that the above is not a solution at all, but creates and amplifies the macroeconomic imbalances already present on a large scale in the european economy, especially to the detriment of small investors. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the retail financial services market is still underdeveloped and highly fragmented within the union, with a low number of crossborder transactions. the need to promote effective action in this area has therefore prompted the commission to present a green paper on retail financial services, which was welcomed by the ludvigsson report, which i have supported today. the text underlines the importance of a dynamic approach to policy-making, providing for continuous monitoring of policy implementation at national level and highlighting the main challenges in advancing the retail financial services agenda. the capacity to collect and analyse data at union level should be strengthened, with a greater emphasis on empirical aspects in impact assessments. the absence of unfair differences between member states joining or not joining the euro must be ensured, by supporting the maintenance of a level playing field and ensuring genuine collective financial inclusion. the future of the european retail financial services market needs to be coordinated with the agendas of the digital single market, the capital markets union and the single market strategy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the green paper on retail financial services because i shared with the rapporteur the idea of developing the retail financial services market at eu level. indeed, a genuine european internal market for retail financial services will have an important impact both on consumers and competition: the former will have more choices and the latter will lead to lower prices.
in writing. ‒ there are three main reasons why the green paper was presented at the right time. firstly, because it is necessary to ensure that the level 2 measures are fair and adequate and that the implementation is monitored at national level. in addition, little progress has been made to date in building a single market for retail financial services and, due to a large number of barriers, cross-border activity is still limited. this is not good for consumers, innovative businesses or the general functioning of the european economy. finally, if managed well, digitalisation could create the necessary momentum to start removing barriers to cross-border activity. it is necessary to advance the agenda for retail financial services by strengthening the union's capacity to collect and analyse data, by making identification work in practice and by creating and maintaining a level playing field. the needless differences between eu and non-eu member states must also be eliminated. for the single market to be truly effective, its integrity must be maintained within this essential element. finally, it is crucial to ensure that everyone is included. financial exclusion must be reduced drastically.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the green paper on retail financial services. i believe that the reason why retail financial services at eu level are still underdeveloped is the lack of transparency of transactions, which has a negative impact on consumer confidence. it follows that i have great difficulty in imagining the development of coordination with the digital single market, firstly because of the lack of respect for the principles of cooperation and exchange of information and privacy profiles. however, i am convinced that coordination with the digital single market is a necessary and useful way forward, given the ease with which communication exchanges take place in the digital world. robo-advisory, the latest frontier of fintech, will soon be a reality.
in writing. ‒ the commission green paper report does not analyse the negative impact of the liberalisation of the retail financial services sector, either from a macroeconomic or financial stability perspective. it does not take into account that, instead of creating a real improvement in competition in the sector, the market configuration will favour the production of standardised and increasingly complex instruments, which are difficult to access for small investors and smes. the proposed solution therefore risks exacerbating the macroeconomic and financial imbalances existing within the euro area, especially in the absence of effective preventive protections for investors. this is an intervention which would not bring any benefits to the real economy and which is liable to be harmful. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ retail financial systems, in each national context, offer citizens a range of essential services. however, in the absence of a european market at present, it is difficult for consumers in one member state to buy products supplied in another member state. the creation of a single market through digitalisation would make it possible to overcome differences in price and choice within the union, facilitating cross-border transactions to the benefit of both consumers, who would benefit from a wide range of products, and businesses, who could make their products available anywhere in the union. i believe that for this ambitious project to be realised it is essential to ensure that consumers are better protected, that they are properly informed and that there is greater transparency. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i believe it is crucial that the commission, in preparing an action plan for 2017, tries to identify and remove the barriers that hinder consumers and businesses from cross-border opportunities. in this connection, i believe that it is essential to improve the use of new technologies and to strengthen the fight against fraud and tax evasion in order to achieve a fairer single market.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this report, which expresses strong support for the european commission's activities, without taking into account the criticisms it has expressed. nor is there any mention of the fact that opening up the single market for financial services could bring down the business of firms based in member states with a more fragile economic situation, such as italy.
in writing. ‒ one of the key challenges facing europe is to make its financial system as transparent and as close to savers and businesses as possible. i therefore regard the adoption of the green paper as an important piece in this unfolding mosaic of legislation. the aim is to open up the european market for retail financial services, thereby achieving better outcomes in terms of benefits and protection for consumers and businesses. the aim is to bring the users of these services progressively closer together by removing the many obstacles to the single market, which is still underdeveloped and highly fragmented. the dynamics of high concentration and low competition which characterise this market certainly do not make it attractive because of the limited choice and unsatisfactory cost-benefit ratio. the green paper will provide a solid consumer protection framework, including the extension of its scope to digitalisation and financial technology innovation, which are the producers of revolutionary and potentially valuable services, reducing transaction costs and improving product comparability. these methods will help to achieve a wider inclusion of savers, start-ups and smes, thus facilitating access to finance and opening up cross-border markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights one of the major issues in retail financial services, namely inclusion and financial literacy. in order to achieve the completion of the capital market union, it would be necessary to ensure equal opportunities for all consumers to access essential financial services, including through non-digital channels in order to avoid financial exclusion. moreover, in the current context of an increasingly financial market, it is necessary for the protection of consumers to ensure and promote sound and thorough financial education enabling citizens to make the best possible assessment of the investment opportunities offered. finally, in encouraging the digitalisation of financial services, it is appropriate to take into account both new benefits and new risks, which may affect both consumers and the technological infrastructures of the sector.
in writing. ‒ while supporting the commission's priority to identify the barriers faced by consumers and businesses and ways to overcome them, especially in the use of new technologies, the econ report stresses the need to ensure consumer protection through further action to enable consumers to make informed decisions, to increase the transparency of retail financial products and to remove barriers to consumption and any unjustified costs related to them or to withdrawal from a product. the socialist and democratic group's contribution to this text was decisive in strengthening consumer protection while seeking to maintain specific safeguards to facilitate cross-border transactions and the development of new services to digitalisation. i therefore consider this text to be a very important step by the institutions towards consumers in order to increase their confidence in the markets.
in writing. ‒ the green paper on retail financial services highlights the need to create an eu market where consumers are well protected, have equal opportunities and access to simple, transparent and good value for money products, in a harmonised legal framework on standardised default options for the most commonly used eu financial products. it also supports the strengthening of the international fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, and money laundering, including further efforts to develop a common tax code. however, there are growing concerns about the emergence of new retail financial service providers, such as insurance, and the increasing complexity and engineering of retail financial products. citizens do not always have a clear and full understanding of the products they buy, whereas it is desirable that they are complete, simple, safe and standardised. moreover, while digitalisation will continue to create new opportunities for consumers, investors, smes and businesses in terms of competition, cross-border activity and innovation, it will not solve problems related to the safety and protection of consumers and their investments. for these reasons, i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is an important stimulus for the discussion on the creation of a single market for retail financial services to continue profitably. i also find the content of the report relevant, with regard to the need for better communication on essential financial products, the efforts to simplify existing legislation and the positive effects that digitisation could have in removing crossborder obstacles.
in writing. ‒ i am against it, some points may be shared but it remains a generic and incomplete text, with strong unconditional support for the commission's work.
in writing. ‒ improving the functioning of the internal market for consumers and traders is a key objective for recovery in europe. i therefore strongly supported this report, which responds to the commission's green paper, in view of the regulatory proposals expected in 2017. i share the priority of removing the remaining barriers to (especially digital) access for customers to financial products and services, in particular the requirements of consumer protection, transparency, cost containment and right of withdrawal, the improvement of the digital market (a real priority for the s&d group).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the green paper on financial services because i believe it is of paramount importance that parliament, in the light of new commission legislative proposals, expresses itself on the subject of retail financial services at eu level, a market which is still underdeveloped and very fragmented, particularly in the case of crossborder retail financial services. there is legislation on this subject, but given the fragmentation it is not sufficient and above all not adequate to the current needs of the development of the single market and in the interest of european consumers and therefore of european savers. correct and forward-looking information to savers gives savers awareness and responsibility in their investment choices, while enhancing the social as well as economic function of saving, and strengthening the single market for financial institutions specialising in saving. the eu needs a long-term investment strategy that can mobilise european savings towards smes first and foremost, in the context of increased supervision at european level by esma and national competent authorities, to respond to the challenges of fintech, i.e. the increasing digitalisation of financial services, and the increased role of trading platforms, which are often the source of fraud.
in writing. the report adopted today aims to make it easier to offer retail financial products in other member states by giving consumers a choice of products and the possibility of transferring them if they decide to work, study or retire in another country. cross-border access would therefore be useful to help citizens in their decision-making processes and in choosing competitive products offered by europe in relation to their needs and budgets, aiming at the inclusion of these services because the inability to access them makes everything more complicated. i think we must work to ensure that this proposal is able to meet the needs of the community to the full and i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to decide how the european market for financial services, for example insurance, loans, payments, current accounts and other retail investments, can be further opened, leading to better outcomes for consumers and businesses, while maintaining an adequate level of consumer and investor protection. the green paper is also timely in view of the fact that digitalisation is now opening up new possibilities at an accelerating pace. if managed properly, digitalisation could create the momentum needed to start removing cross-border barriers. we have an opportunity now to bring together financial players and consumers from all over europe. this is an unmissable opportunity for the single market. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that, despite the intensive work done by the commission in recent years, we can still improve, as there are limits to cross-border activity, and this is not only harmful to individual innovative companies but also to consumers. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the rules on competition. however, this must be ensured by maintaining a high level of consumer and investor protection. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to put forward proposals to make the european market for financial services, i.e. insurance, loans, payments, current accounts, savings accounts and other retail investments, more competitive. it seeks to identify the specific barriers that consumers and businesses face in using the single market and ways in which they can overcome these barriers. the green paper deals with a number of strategic issues. i believe that the commission's initiative represents a dynamic approach to the development of the new policies required by this sector. for the single market to be truly efficient, its integrity must be maintained, as the ultimate challenge is to ensure an efficient social market economy. creating a well-functioning single market for retail financial services is a project of paramount importance. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted against this own-initiative report which supports the commission's strategy to create a single market for retail financial services and remove the remaining obstacles to the expansion of cross-border financial activities. i naturally share the objectives of facilitating competition and transparency in the sector, but i believe that the only way to achieve these objectives is through stronger financial regulation and supervision, not through liberalisation, which would have harmful and counterproductive effects, especially in a banking and financial system which has not yet been secured and which is also heavily distorted by the single currency. experience shows the catastrophic consequences of financial liberalisation in an economic area characterised by severe distortions and imbalances. we have seen this with greece, which has become a hostage of the german and french banks, which had fuelled its excessive accumulation of private external debt with soft loans. it is not difficult to foresee that the single market in retail financial services will not increase competition and the protection of retail investors, as the report hopes, but will encourage the concentration and oligopoly of the big too-big-to-fail banking groups and will amplify the already unsustainable financial imbalances in the euro area. i've seen that story before.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the green paper on retail financial services, because today it is necessary to remove the crossborder barriers that harm consumers, hinder innovative businesses and the smooth functioning of the european economy. the commission is moving in the right direction and our group has insisted on the need to ensure a proper balance between consumer protection and the development of the single market in retail financial services. we believe that the scope of the commission's future action plan should equally focus on consumer protection measures and the development of cross-border opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the report is very limited in its approach, as it does not analyse the negative macroeconomic and financial stability implications of the liberalisation of this sector. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of the insolvency of a company is not in line with the commission's proposal. on the contrary, this market will create standardised and increasingly complex instruments that will be difficult for small investors and smes to access. this solution is therefore not the answer to the needs of the real economy. the amendments i tabled have highlighted the enormous risks involved in the liberalisation of retail financial services in a heterogeneous economic and financial area characterised by strong macroeconomic asymmetries and divergences between the eurozone countries, which are already greatly aggravated by the single currency. such a solution would further exacerbate the macroeconomic and financial imbalances existing within the euro area, especially if the conditions for investor protection are not created ex ante. in conclusion, the proposal on the single market for retail financial products and services is absolutely harmful and counterproductive, which is why i voted against it.
today we are wondering how we are responding to the 82% of european citizens who are rightly afraid and who believe that the fight against terrorism is a common european priority. the time has come to choose the direction europe must take. we have already tried cooperation, sometimes strengthened, sometimes not, which does not work. if the future, after brexit, is to be more union, then we need to support a common defence policy, which does not mean having an army to wage war. we must be very careful about the messages we send to our citizens, but rather intervene in hot spots to do prevention above all. after every tragic attack in europe, everyone has pointed out the lack of effective intelligence and cooperation between the member states, a lack which has unfortunately cost us dearly. europe has shown itself unprepared in the face of an enemy that must be sought within and beyond europe's borders, and we can only do this if we aim at a common defence policy, because if the threat is to europe, the response must be european.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the need to create a 'defence union' to ensure security throughout the european union. the report also stresses some controversial aspects, such as investing part of the multiannual financial framework funds in defence research, allocating 2% of member states' gdp to defence expenditure or supporting nato initiatives. in order to express my concern at the inadequacy of the measures in the report on european defence, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ while a large number of member states have decided to continue to cut defence spending over the past 30 years, global challenges have increased due to the rise of phenomena such as international terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity and organised crime. i strongly supported the paet report on european defence union because i believe that it is essential at this historic moment to intensify efforts in this direction. finally, multinational forces must be set up within the framework of permanent structured cooperation and made available to the common security and defence policy. all the duplication, overcapacity and obstacles which lead to an estimated waste of eur 26.4 billion in public procurement today must be reduced by jointly purchasing resources and pooling non-lethal materials such as transport vehicles and aircraft. the creation of a headquarters for planning, command and control of joint operations, together with a complete overhaul of the csdp, are key steps in ensuring that the european union plays a leading role on the global stage, operating in synergy with nato and also taking into account the new political spaces.
in writing. ‒ given the eu's obvious inability to defend its borders, especially the southern ones, which thousands of illegal immigrants enter daily, it seems absurd to me that the disastrous recipe of 'more europe' should also be imposed in the field of defence. i think that further ceding of our national sovereignty is unacceptable, especially in a sensitive and strategic area for every member state, such as defence. for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european defence union because i strongly believe that the widespread perception of insecurity by european citizens makes the european defence union a matter of urgency. in particular, considering the increase in conflicts at the eu’s borders i believe further integration with regard to defence policies at eu level is needed.
in writing. ‒ due to duplication of administrative staff, overcapacity and obstacles in the area of public procurement in the security and defence sectors, the cost of non-europe is estimated at eur 26.4 billion per year. strategic and military analysts have concluded that if the european union were to truly integrate its defence functions, it would double its defence capability in the event of an attack and save money for its citizens. today, with the us gradually disengaging from the european and mediterranean scenario and with the increase of threats in eastern europe and north africa, the need for an autonomous defence of the european space and the need to develop a rapid response system that is resilient and effective in the face of the hybrid threats of the 21st century is becoming relevant again. the white paper on common defence must be a concrete act for the revival of european defence, it cannot be reduced to a manifesto of good intentions but the first step towards the creation of common armed forces.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that a more ambitious security research programme and a ready strategy are needed to proceed with the implementation of the european defence union. in recent years, the security situation in europe and the world has deteriorated dramatically. the threats of terrorism, organised crime and climate change are common fears to the entire world population. the eu therefore has a duty to work to ensure the safety of people and to place this issue among the most important challenges of the immediate future. the commission needs to be effective with its european defence action plan (edap) and make it a key strategic instrument to foster industrial cooperation for the development of defence capability programmes. close cooperation between the commission and the european defence agency (eda) is appropriate to strengthen the industrial and technological base of the defence sector.
in writing. ‒ european security must be guaranteed in the long term. in the report we are discussing we stress the need for political will and determination based on strong and modern military capabilities. we need to define a new model of a council of defence ministers to provide lasting political guidance. the council of the european union will have to set up a permanent meeting of the defence ministers of the member states committed to better synergy between the states. the way forward is through enhanced cooperation in the field of european defence, which will mean greater effectiveness, unity and efficiency. the report rightly emphasizes the priority of defining a preparatory action for a future european defence research programme, and we hope that it will be launched as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the multiple armed conflicts and tragic terrorist acts of recent years require concrete actions and new defence strategies from the european union. individual member states cannot respond to these growing threats on their own; eu countries must therefore join forces to ensure security within and beyond their borders. the eu is called upon to play a greater role as a provider of security, promoting european values in full respect of the treaties and human rights. in this respect, i believe that the member states must exploit the full potential of the lisbon treaty in relation to the european defence and security policy (edps) and continue the path towards structured cooperation. appropriate common defence policies at union level and the provision of the necessary resources to ensure their implementation are therefore necessary. i hope that the report will positively encourage the member states to move in this direction and to make a real effort to achieve the objectives set out in the csdp. for these reasons i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the creation of a common defence policy for the union as provided for in the treaty of lisbon. i believe that the good intentions of peace and security at global level are being used as a pretext for the creation of a strong defensive instrument, which can be an added value in international negotiations with russia and the united states.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the continuous emergence of internal and external threats, the eu has made it a priority to adopt joint, coordinated and timely efforts to optimally eliminate them, and i therefore endorse the report. in other words, by implementing joint training and education activities in addition to operational ones, it will be possible to eradicate cancers from the countless metastases such as terrorism, cyber and energy insecurity and organised crime. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but that it is able to take action to protect its citizens. the introduction of an innovative interoperability condition will not only reduce costs for individual states by sharing platforms and materials, but will also increase technological innovation and improve the european defence industry by giving it a leading position in global competitiveness. in line with this, i call for the establishment of a model council of defence ministers and the establishment of a permanent working group on the issues to be dealt with. in this context, i fully support the launch in 2017 of a preparatory action in the field of common defence and security.
in writing. ‒ laying the foundations for a genuine defence europe is the precise demand made by the european parliament in its resolution on the european defence union voted on this week. finally, europe has shown courage and dignity by calling for a substantial revision of the common security and defence policy. in fact, in the face of the many threats to the freedom and peace of our people, a decisive turn is needed to make a decisive contribution to the security of the union and to the management of international crises which can no longer be based on improvisation or the actions of individual member states.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the creation of a defence union to strengthen european military capabilities. more specifically, it provides for the introduction of tax incentives (tax exemptions) in the field of defence, with the idea of developing a european drone industry, thus allocating funds in the military field, about 500 million per year from 2021 and 2% of the gdp of each member state. it is also planned to support nato initiatives to deploy battalions in member states as necessary. i think that is more than enough to explain my total disagreement with this report and my total disagreement with the militarization of europe.
in writing. ‒ according to the eurobarometer 85.1 of june 2016, around two thirds of eu citizens would like to see the eu become more involved in security and defence policy issues. in addition, the cost of non-europe in the field of defence and security is estimated at eur 26.4 billion per year, due to duplication, overcapacity and obstacles in the field of defence procurement. this resolution seeks to respond to the need to implement a european defence union, building on the unused instruments already provided for in the lisbon treaty. the treaty provides that member states are to make available adequate capabilities for military and civilian missions and operations under the common security and defence policy, through instruments such as permanent structured cooperation and tactical groups. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the full benefits of european cooperation must be exploited to respond to the context of crises and interconnected challenges facing europe. in particular, i believe that we must focus on key elements such as constructive cooperation between the eu and nato, the extension of the athena mechanism, joint work between the commission and the european defence agency in favour of the strategic autonomy and competitiveness of the european defence industry.
in writing. ‒ in an international geopolitical context of growing instability, increased threats, the scourge of terrorism and numerous cyberattacks, both within and outside our borders, the european parliament today adopted a resolution on the european defence union. i fully support this text, which lays a solid foundation for the implementation of a real plan for common defence, which in the long term, i hope, will lead to the creation of a european union army. in particular, among the proposals i have supported i stress the push towards the creation of multinational forces and an operational headquarters for military operations and measures towards the rationalisation of expenditure, so as to eliminate unnecessary waste, duplication and overcapacity in the defence industry. the message we sent is clear: the european union must not allow itself to move in a dispersed manner, but must move towards greater integration, taking on the responsibilities that are now more necessary than ever to make a decisive contribution to the legitimate security needs of european citizens and to the management of international crises.
in writing. ‒ i support the report because i believe that closer cooperation on defence is one of the member states' priorities. in fact, a growing number of european citizens would like the union to make a greater effort in the common security and defence policies. europe is surrounded by threats which must also be tackled through better cooperation with nato.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because, although i agree with it on some points, i am sceptical about its operation.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important report given that the security situation in and around europe has considerably worsened in recent years. threats like terrorism and conflicts in our neighbourhood are threats that no single country is able to face alone – this requires a european response. the current financial constraints from austerity and the increased security threats require european armed forces to collaborate more closely and for them to train and work better in unison. the union defence policy provided by the council is a first step but it requires more financial resources for its implementation. key objectives for european defence in the future are joint procurement and other forms of pooling resources; this could provide a much-needed boost to europe’s defence industry. another key objective is the launch of an eu-funded defence research programme; this should be launched at least by the next mff – sufficient funding for this programme is key to ensuring the sufficient future defence capacities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the ep resolution on the european defence union, because i am in favour of this very important proposal inspired by the italian government for the creation of a european defence union, a historic objective pursued since the start of the process of integration of the european states after the end of the second world war. the time is ripe, and the challenges which history has set for europe are those of its own survival. i am therefore in favour of the eu's common foreign policy being enriched by a new element, by having a military umbrella to support nato's role in protecting eu member states. the defence union would also provide a further impetus to cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism and in intelligence sharing, and would make it possible to strengthen the european defence industry and to launch interesting collaborations and joint initiatives. i hope, therefore, that the concerns of some countries will be overcome and that, by activating the structured cooperation instrument, the council can make rapid progress in this direction, as the italian government has requested.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the time has come to establish a common defence policy for the union which can promote the rule of law, peace and security at global level. however, to ensure long-term security, europe needs political will and determination based on a wide range of relevant policy instruments. so not just an arms race, not just a european-style militarization of our borders, but rather a recourse to the permanent structured cooperation already defined in article 42 of the teu and a call for the activities listed in article 43. i am referring in particular to joint disarmament operations, humanitarian and rescue missions, military advice and assistance missions, conflict prevention and peacekeeping missions, and peace-building and post-conflict stabilization operations. this too is european defence and all these actions can also contribute to the fight against terrorism, including by supporting third countries to fight terrorism on their own territory.
in writing. according to recent statistics, 85.1% of our citizens would like the union to engage more in security and defence matters, finding efficient solutions to ensure a secure society. in fact, the security of our states is today threatened by emerging phenomena including terrorism, economic, cyber and energy instability, organized crime, and, most recently, climate change. these challenges cannot be met individually but require the cooperation of all member states and the adoption of systematic and common programmes. the report also calls for the establishment of a european defence union and calls for a review of the eu's overall strategy. security is undoubtedly one of the main concerns of european citizens and it is our duty to do everything possible to achieve concrete results for their benefit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european defence union. security and defence are key topics that require the eu’s utmost attention. the proliferation of terrorist organisations in the middle east and north africa is posing a security threat to the european continent, and, therefore, requires cooperation from all member states as terrorism cannot be tackled effectively by one country only.
in writing. ‒ the international geopolitical situation calls for a common defence policy. the fragmentation of eu defence systems costs almost €26 billion each year. the changing landscape in the east and the south calls for thinking about integrated defence mechanisms, complementary to nato. horizontal coordination between member states is essential to avoid wasting resources and to ensure better results. we need to increase investment in defence, reaching the nato target of 2% of gdp, if we are to have a stronger european position in the atlantic context. at the same time, part of the european budget could be allocated to defence cooperation, including specific requirements in the multiannual financial framework. the creation of a kind of defence schengen is intended to prevent eu policy from being dependent on only a few member states, or from not being a major player in nato's choices. a european defence commissioner, more regular meetings of european defence ministers, structured cooperation mechanisms including the deployment of multinational forces, a framework for technological research in the defence sector which ensures strategic autonomy and enhances european excellence in the sector: these are the final steps towards creating a genuine common european defence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the internal security situation in the european union has been severely tested in recent years and has given rise to difficult and difficult challenges for individual countries or organisations to meet. today, europe is threatened by terrorism and the european union is therefore called upon to adopt positions which, through the mutual exchange of information, are aimed at combating the violation of human rights. as early as 2007, when the lisbon treaty was formulated, it provided for the possibility for member states to make available means for possible military and civilian operations under the csdp and the possibility to establish a european security and defence union, which would lead to the establishment of the european armed forces. the white paper on security and defence alone would strengthen the csdp and increase the european union's capabilities, and it would be cost-effective. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because the european union must develop cooperation in the field of the common security and defence policy and have an autonomous defence capability, in order to be able to protect its citizens and promote its values and interests, in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights. in recent years, the security situation at europe's borders has deteriorated considerably, giving rise to crises that no member state is able to address and manage on its own. the union's external action to prevent and end armed conflict and continued violations of human rights, to promote democracy and the rule of law, and to combat terrorism effectively also requires the possibility of deploying military contingents in a timely manner, as provided for in article 42 teu. this eu capacity building must be complementary and compatible with nato objectives, leading to mutual reinforcement and more effective joint action. finally, overcoming the duplication of 28 national armies and obstacles in defence procurement would free up an estimated eur 26,4 billion per year in economic resources that could be better used elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the importance of the white paper on security and defence as part of the eu's overall strategy. finally, within the eu, it seems that there is a realisation that without a common defence policy we cannot have a foreign policy which is able to fully defend european interests on the international stage. the first step towards a common defence is to promote and strengthen a common defence industry on a continental scale. only then could we achieve more technological standards, compete with new emerging military forces, such as china, and equip ourselves with operating systems independent of american ones. italy can play a leading role in this area and, in my view, should lead the european defence union together with france. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing the threat of terrorism on its own soil and in the wider world, and there is growing evidence of instability in africa and the middle east. i believe that cooperation with third countries on sensitive data, energy and information security, the fight against organised crime and cooperation between armed forces are the major challenges facing the european institutions. recent studies show that two thirds of the european population want the institutions to be more involved in the common security and defence policy. i think it is important that the european council should promote the definition of a defence policy at union level, as provided for in article 42 of the teu, for the security of citizens but also to respond to today's challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european defence union. i believe it is necessary to support developments in the field of the common security and defence policy and to encourage the achievement of autonomous defence capabilities for the eu, in order to protect its citizens and promote its values and interests in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on water transport and has some very interesting points. we know that the italian maritime transport system needs to be improved in some respects and the report proposes to encourage competitiveness and to improve infrastructure. in addition, special attention is paid to environmental sustainability, promoting compliance with the cop21 objectives and encouraging the decarbonisation of transport. as the environment is a very important and sensitive subject which requires a lot of attention and as the report contains many good points, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ passenger water transport already plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union, an area which, due to its geographical characteristics, the presence of many rivers, islands and coasts, still has enormous potential for the growth of sustainable transport systems. i voted for the taylor report because i share the idea of investing in policies to create a truly single area for passenger transport by water. the action of the community institutions today must aim at developing policies addressing aspects of safety, environmental standards, crossborder cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. passenger water transport is a great opportunity for the future, and europe will have to make the most of it to ensure not only vital services to remote communities, but to revive the tourist potential of many parts of our continent.
in writing. ‒ the text on the importance of passenger transport by waterways seems well thought out. i think it is essential to ensure that our citizens have access to water and sea transport as a means of communication. the improvement of this type of transport would favour the activities of many of our enterprises, for example in the shipbuilding and tourism sectors. i therefore intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on unleashing the potential of waterborne passenger transport because i think that this kind of transport policy shall overcome the administrative burden arising from cross—border shipping in order to increase the efficiency of the sector, obviously by bearing in mind the need to reduce the environmental impact.
in writing. ‒ a large number of commuters in europe travel by road, creating congestion, congestion and delays on our continent's urban roads. better use of available waterborne passenger transport capacity could not only help reduce congestion and carbon dioxide emissions, but also improve air quality and the overall supply of transport services. passenger ships play an important role in the mobility of union citizens: more than 400 million people transit through eu ports every year, with 120 million passengers transported between ports in the same member state. the eu has helped to improve safety on passenger ships and to facilitate search and rescue operations through significant improvements in legislation, but there are still areas for improvement to be exploited to strengthen the application of existing rules and to simplify them where possible, in order to eliminate obsolete or redundant requirements and to ensure the level of excellence in passenger safety in eu waterways.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which calls on the commission to work towards the development of passenger water transport (pwt) in view of the enormous benefits it can bring. the report shows how better use of pvt can make the european transport sector more efficient and sustainable. a reduction in road passenger transport and a fair increase in passenger transport by water can not only moderate traffic congestion, but can reduce co2 emissions by improving air quality. the incentives to be adopted include investment in innovative technology and research, improvement of fuel quality and engine efficiency. it is necessary to integrate the tpva into information systems in order to further develop the tourism sector and to increase the quality of public services. the presence of numerous waterways is a great opportunity to improve the social and economic well-being of the entire continent.
in writing. ‒ passenger transport by inland waterway is a strategically important sector in the field of transport and tourism, for which a harmonised legal basis is needed that does not hinder its development. it is a vital transport for peripheral regions, which are often made less accessible and interconnected by a transport system that is not adapted to their geographical situation. the development of inland waterway transport also means compensating for a competitiveness deficit affecting specific areas located at great distances from the main administrative and economic centres. it is therefore necessary to reduce distances by strengthening links structurally in order to increase opportunities for development, growth and employment. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is essential to support a model of economic development which takes account of the specific needs of these areas, which are disadvantaged by a transport system which is still not competitive.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report. this is a non-legislative text which aims to draw the attention of the european commission to the priorities of passenger transport by waterways, both at sea and in inland waters.
in writing. ‒ there is no place in our union where it is not possible to enjoy the presence of rivers, lakes or coasts. it is, moreover, the history of the world itself that teaches us how the greatest civilizations have developed in areas rich in water and since our heritage is both historical and cultural, it deserves a worthy continuation. the eu's shape offers an exceptional opportunity for sustainable water transport, making it imperative to use the existing excess capacity in terms of infrastructure and vessels. the key role of transport links is also a major factor of territorial cohesion and a tourist opportunity to be fully exploited. the aim is therefore to simplify the administrative burden for cross-border shipping. the aim is, of course, to open up the market to a burst of competition. in addition, we are well aware of the environmental impact of water transport, so we intend to set out precise rules for sustainable tourism. first, eurostat is invited to include data related to water tourism and its impacts. secondly, local authorities must ensure a functional and efficient integration of water and land public transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that passenger water transport (pwt), including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a very important role in the development of a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector, supported by policies that address aspects of safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation, competitiveness as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. today, there are still many commuters on the roads, creating traffic jams, congestion and delays on the urban roads of our continent: better use of available passenger water transport capacity could not only help to reduce congestion and polluting emissions, but also to improve the overall supply of transport services for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ passenger water transport is among the most sustainable modes of transport and better use of its capacity could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and the overall supply of transport services. there is certainly further scope to make ships cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, for example in solar and wind energy, shore-side electricity supply and alternative fuels. in this sense, the use of eu funds such as the cohesion, structural, regional, interreg, horizon 2020, cef and ten-t funds and efsi funding can be the key to strengthening the potential of the relevant sector.
in writing. ‒ waterway transport is more environmentally sustainable as it offers opportunities to reduce pollution. the ferry and cruise sector is an important part of the european economy, including tourism, with 400 million citizens transiting through eu ports every year and providing jobs for some 161 000 people. the sector provides important links in coastal regions and river traffic. i therefore urge the eu to continue its efforts to improve the safety performance of ferries and the development of technologies that contribute to energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it meets the need to simplify and improve the common rules on the safety of passenger ships in eu waters. in particular, the report has the merit of addressing two relevant issues, namely the safety of personnel and passengers on coastal vessels and the integration of maritime transport in a context of multimodal mobility, particularly in islands, island regions and remote areas.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because it highlights the importance of water transport both for tourism and for economic development and transport in general.
in writing. ‒ strengthening the development of alternative transport, such as maritime transport, would be a great opportunity for the union to bet more effectively on key objectives for europe such as sustainable development, the contribution to growth through the revival of new tourism-related opportunities and concrete contributions to the reduction of co2 emissions for an effective improvement of air quality. for these reasons, i supported and voted in favour of the report on 'unlocking the potential of passenger transport by inland waterway', convinced that the future of european transport must be based on integrated multimedia, social and environmental sustainability and the resources brought to bear by new technologies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ep resolution on 'unlocking the potential of passenger transport by inland waterway' because it is an environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly mode of transport. passenger transport by inland waterway also plays an important role in coastal and remote areas and is linked to the major theme of exploiting inland waterways. in a continent with many navigable rivers, lakes, streams and waterways, i find it crucial that transport on these navigable waterways should complement and possibly surpass road transport, helping to reduce co2 emissions and reduce the problem of urban traffic. as the centuries-old experience of venice shows, the integration of maritime transport into the public transport system is therefore possible and indeed necessary. in addition, maritime transport has the potential to develop tourism, increase freight traffic in certain parts of europe, increase the mobility of people with disabilities, link urban areas to the periphery and increase the mobility of commuters. i therefore think that europe should encourage this mode of transport, also looking at the juncker plan and the efsi to finance projects with high european added value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it continues the positive series of decisions to take measures to reduce co2 emissions in line with the cop 21 agreements which we all supported. the promotion of mobility and the interconnection of infrastructure in all european regions is now a key priority in order to give cohesion to the union project which we are painstakingly building every day. with this objective in mind, the proposal highlights some critical points that certainly need to be addressed. first of all, it would be essential to have statistical data on water transport, especially if it allows cross-border links linking different european regions. with careful monitoring we could know which ones have real added value and enhance them. in addition, uniformity and simplification of the legislative framework are necessary to improve the safety of people and to increase tourism using inland waterway transport.
in writing. the european territory, which is mainly occupied by rivers, long coasts and islands, offers a wide range of possibilities for passenger transport by water. nevertheless, congestion, congestion and delays are a feature of the roads on our continent that many commuters use on a daily basis. for these reasons, it is important to invest more in the capacity available for passenger transport by water (tpva), which could contribute to reducing co2 emissions and improving air quality. if supported by safety policies, environmental standards, quality of service and passenger rights, the tpva could represent the main path towards a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector. eu legislation has so far increased safety on passenger ships while harmonising safety standards in all eu member states. however, there is still a need for stronger enforcement of existing rules, simplification of the regulatory framework and increased investment in research and innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted positively for the report on unleashing the potential of waterborne passenger transport. supporting the report means paving the way for reduction of co2 emissions and improvement of air quality and betterment of aquatic transport systems. by contributing to this project, european citizens can look forward to enjoying from even more sustainable, easier, and quicker maritime transport that protects both their environment as well as their health. furthermore, improving waterborne transport will result in an increase of mobility of european citizens, which in turn will boost the economy in the maritime sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that passenger water transport (pwt), including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, has a key role to play in a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector. they are means of transport which not only do not harm the environment but also protect the passengers themselves. unfortunately, today a large number of people travel by road, which increases urban pollution, whereas the use of these means of maritime transport would reduce co2 emissions but also improve air quality. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ europe's geography offers extraordinary opportunities for water transport, thanks to the presence of many rivers, waterways, long coasts and islands. the committee on transport and tourism has already taken a number of important decisions on the subject. it could contribute to improving environmental well-being by reducing emissions of co2 and other pollutants harmful to our health. finally, the development of water transport, both inland and coastal, would be a valuable tool for promoting tourism, including in areas outside the traditional routes. i therefore share the recommendations in the report for the strengthening of passenger transport services on ferries, barges and cruise ships and for their integration into existing public transport networks, also improving the integrated ticketing system. european funds should fully contribute to the development of new passenger waterways and new technologies that further improve their safety, energy efficiency and accessibility for persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report gives parliament the opportunity to provide the necessary input to move towards the modernisation of the existing fleet and port facilities. we need to set ourselves the ambitious goal of helping to make the eu the world leader in maritime research and innovation, and to do that, i believe that public institutions need to work closely with european ship-owners and industry, and in particular with those sectors, such as cruise shipping, that have been able to grow and innovate despite the ongoing economic crisis. we must support efforts to move towards the use of 'cleaner' ships, as part of a european framework to make inland waterway transport greener, including through the adoption of tax incentive measures for shipbuilders as well as the setting of certain timetables. through my work as shadow rapporteur for the epp i have brought the following issues to the rapporteur's attention: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment. i voted to approve it.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the geographical structure of europe: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's inland waterway transport system. the number of citizens who transit through ports in the european union each year is already 400 million and 161 000 people are directly employed in the sector. in order to achieve a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector, i believe that the adoption of this report represents a step forward in simplifying and improving common rules and in the implementation of future policy initiatives in this area. competitiveness, environmental sustainability, safety and cross-border cooperation, quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility are the key aspects of this initiative. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the issue of climate change posed by human activity is a threat that must be addressed by europe in a timely manner. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. given the potential of this sector, i believe that the european parliament should move along two legislative lines: on the one hand, work on proposals that benefit the safety of citizens on inland waterways; the commission will also be encouraging research funding to modernise the sector and help reduce air pollution. i believe that the harmonization of fares and travel documents and the reduction of the administrative burden on the industry are essential to this process of modernization. it is our duty to support the european transport networks with the least impact on the environment and to make choices in the interests of citizens to develop the economies of peripheral regions, first and foremost by improving the quality of public transport services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unlocking the potential of passenger transport by inland waterway. the geographical situation of europe, with its long coastlines and its many rivers and islands, offers extraordinary opportunities for sustainable passenger transport by water and, given that this type of transport in the fields of cabotage, sea and inland ferries, cruises and tourism plays a fundamental role in connecting the different regions of the european union, i believe it is a key factor in strengthening cohesion. the s&d group succeeded in putting the emphasis on safety, developing sustainable services that respect the environment and providing more efficient services for people with reduced mobility.
in writing. ‒ poverty reduction is a key objective of european development policy, as also stated in article 208 tfeu. a key aspect of development cooperation is the involvement of civil society, specifically citizens, local communities and religious organisations as their contribution to the promotion and implementation of the aid effectiveness agenda. i believe that a further effort must be made by the member states to make existing programmes, such as the gpedc, even more efficient, as the european union is the main donor of development aid. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the dan preda report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. since 2011, with the commitments made in busan, the eu has moved to define four principles for assessing the effectiveness of aid: ownership of the development priorities of developing countries; focus on results through actions that reduce poverty and inequality in developing countries in a sustainable way; inclusive development partnerships based on mutual respect and transparency and shared responsibility. they are effective standards that have helped countries achieve the millennium development goals and have gained broad public support in donor countries. the second meeting of the gpedc, the global partnership for effective development cooperation, will also build on this work. the european union will have to rise to the challenge, by stepping up its efforts both in creating rules to increase the effectiveness of aid and development and in adopting the 2030 agenda. the eu will need to continue to take effective measures to increase aid transparency, improve joint programming, address conflict and fragility and quantify results.
in writing. ‒ despite the report's mention of shared steps, it is still just another demagogic call for aid to third countries, without adding anything about a more rational and effective management of this aid. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation because it pushed development actors to improve their efforts aimed at achieving the 2030 agenda’s targets. moreover, it called on the eu member states to publish their busan implementation plans and report their efforts prior to the second high level meeting of global partnership for effective development cooperation, which will take place from 28 november to 1 december 2016.
in writing. ‒ 'doing more with less' is one of the cornerstones of the new 2030 agenda, which we europeans intend to use to achieve greater effectiveness in aid delivery and development cooperation for the poor countries of africa, asia and south america. specific interventions remain crucial to help alleviate poverty, strengthen national resilience to environmental and health challenges, and empower local communities. however, developed countries need to be more aware that legitimate, inclusive governance based on the rule of law and respect for human rights in developing countries is an indispensable element for development assistance to play its proper role in reducing poverty and improving the situation and prospects of people. ethical and environmentally sustainable development is therefore of paramount importance for effective development and must be considered a priority over any trade agreement. the eu, as the world's largest donor of development aid, has a particular responsibility to improve the effectiveness and accountability of aid worldwide: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because it offers valuable suggestions for improving the effectiveness of development aid. the eu, as the main donor, must continue to engage and maintain leadership on these issues, addressing them with due responsibility, to be a leader in global efforts. it also has a duty to ensure that transparency and the rule of law in developing countries remain a topical concern. the report highlights the contribution that the eu can make to combating poverty and promoting development, especially in the most deprived countries. all available development tools must be used to overcome poverty, reduce inequalities, provide essential public services and support good governance, while pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and measuring the effectiveness of funding on the basis of reliable results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which reiterates that the european union, as the world's leading donor of development aid, must step up and improve its efforts in this area. i believe that under article 208 tfeu, which establishes the reduction and eradication of poverty as the primary objective of european development policy, we have a duty to honour our commitments, especially as development assistance can play a crucial role in achieving the objectives of the 2030 agenda.
in writing. ‒ the report, for which i voted in favour, assesses the effectiveness and transparency of the european union's development cooperation policies. i believe that the union, which is today the world's largest donor of development aid, must ensure through appropriate monitoring that the funds it provides are used effectively in order to maximise its contribution to poverty eradication. ensuring that resources are allocated to people in need seems to me an even more necessary imperative in the light of the current global scenario of increased humanitarian crises and resource scarcity. i would stress that greater transparency in the use of funds will help to eradicate corruption in the beneficiary countries and in the long term reduce dependence on aid. i also believe that sustainable development policies should be implemented through cooperation with local actors in order to promote good governance and to empower the institutions of partner countries. finally, i believe that the european union must become a promoter of innovative models of cooperation involving new middle-income countries as well as emerging donors from civil society and the private sector.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report as there seem to be no concrete signs of a real reversal of the trend on the effectiveness of eu cooperation action.
in writing. ‒ i would like to remind them of their role in development cooperation, and that is what i intend to do by voting in favour. this requires, five years after the commitments made in busan, a renewal of the commitments, together with increased efforts to enhance the quality of the implementation of the comprehensive partnership and to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda. since december 2011, however, many of the assumptions and certainties have been lost to the crisis, making it a priority to tackle the growing poverty in europe, as well as in the rest of the world. the continuous and relentless increase in social inequality, combined with the crisis, is reflected in the formation of social circles disillusioned with the future, where the total distance between the member states and the union is perceived as opening the door to degradation. this can only be avoided through governance policies based on the no-one-behind model. parliament plays a key role in democratic scrutiny of eu development activities, advocating transparency and fairness in aid and adopting best practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it stresses the importance of development aid and sustainable financing for cooperation, while also promoting an approach that goes beyond aid itself. the text stresses the need for better articulation of the global development architecture and better coordination between all stakeholders, with a strong emphasis on monitoring, transparency and shared responsibility for results. in my view, in order to achieve real effectiveness of aid, it is necessary to keep in mind: ownership of the development priorities of the countries concerned, focus on results through actions that reduce poverty and inequality in developing countries in a sustainable way, inclusive partnerships based on mutual respect and, finally, transparency and shared responsibility for the results achieved. the eu needs to continue along the path of identifying increasingly innovative approaches to sustainable development, together with the definition of the roles and responsibilities of the various actors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the preda report, as it recognises the important role of the european union in development aid and the need to step up efforts in this area in order to meet the commitments made under article 208 tfeu and to do more to achieve the sustainable development goals. improving our efforts in this area would mean preparing for and responding more effectively to the challenges of the near future, as improving development brings mutually shared benefits and helps to prevent new problems from arising.
in writing. ‒ as the world's largest donor of development aid, the european union has a responsibility to improve the effectiveness of its action through more effective cooperation that has a real impact on alleviating poverty in a context of growing humanitarian crises and resource scarcity. the forthcoming second high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc) provides an opportunity to overcome the critical issues identified so far and to identify innovative approaches to sustainable development, clearly addressing the issue of the roles and responsibilities of the various development actors in a differentiated manner. in this context, i believe that the eu, which has played an important role both in creating the current rules for aid effectiveness and development and in adopting the 2030 agenda, should continue to take the lead on these issues and contribute to the reflection on the articulation and synergies between these two elements, especially in the current implementation phase.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to improve aid effectiveness through development cooperation. the report identifies innovative approaches and strategic principles to foster sustainable development and clearly addresses the issue of the roles and responsibilities of the various actors involved in cooperation projects. i also believe that the involvement of local authorities and private actors in development assistance and respect for the democratic ownership of beneficiary countries are key strategic elements in promoting the efficiency and effectiveness of aid and development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i abstain as there do not appear to be any concrete signs in this report of a real reversal of the trend in the effectiveness of eu cooperation action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the effectiveness of development cooperation because i believe that official development assistance can play a crucial role in achieving the objectives of the 2030 agenda in low-income countries, and in combating extreme poverty and inequality. nevertheless, it is of paramount importance that it be oriented towards the principle of effectiveness. in other words, development cooperation must be based on democratic ownership of the countries directly concerned, alignment, capacity building at local level, transparency and democratic accountability, monitoring of results achieved, inclusion, to allow aid conditionality to respect the principle of democratic ownership. poverty reduction necessarily involves the use of all development policy instruments, but it has long been clear that other development policy instruments are needed in addition to aid and development cooperation, and above all that the eu and its member states respect their historic commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to aid, by stepping up their development aid, including through the union budget and the european development fund (edf), and by implementing a clear and effective roadmap to deliver on commitments.
in writing. ‒ december 2016 will mark the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the busan partnership for effective development cooperation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and the paris agreement, including the implementation of the commitments under the paris agreement. ownership by partner countries, results-based development, inclusive partnership for development, transparency and shared responsibility of all cooperation actors. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it sets out precise criteria for doing so and because i believe that our role as meps is crucial in keeping these objectives at the top of the priorities of national parliaments and our territories.
in writing. ‒ development aid plays an essential role in the fight against poverty and the elimination of inequalities; however, such aid cannot effectively achieve its objectives if it is used in contexts where there is no peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law, an impartial judicial system, social, environmental and labour standards and safeguards, and inclusive decision-making processes. we therefore call on all public and private sector actors to redouble their efforts to promote progress in a context of legitimate and inclusive governance, based on the rule of law and respect for human rights. the eu and its member states must commit to their commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to aid, and to step up their development aid, including through the union budget and the european development fund. we also call for an effective roadmap to be implemented to deliver on commitments in a transparent and accountable manner. the european parliament should be guaranteed the possibility of exercising its democratic control role over all eu policies, including development policies.
in writing. the eu's role is to improve aid and development effectiveness through long-term programmes. the european union and its member states will continue to work together to ensure that the implementation of the busan partnership for effective development cooperation is coordinated and coordinated. in parallel, the second high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc), which is tasked with monitoring the implementation of the commitments agreed in busan, will be held in nairobi at the end of november 2016. the report adopted today reaffirms the importance of official development assistance and sustainable financing for development, and analyses the successful implementation of these global commitments. the report calls for the eu to continue to play a leading role by stepping up efforts in the field, better articulating the overall development architecture and promoting better coordination. in this context, the importance of applying the common principles for development effectiveness defined above is constantly emphasised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. supporting the aforementioned section will contribute to the eu’s long-standing commitment to development in the form of alleviation of poverty and empowering of local communities in third-world countries. a number of issues have been identified, and, therefore, by supporting the report those issues will gain importance and will comply with development effectiveness. development includes properly reducing poverty, securing the rule of law and the protection of human rights in those countries. hence, my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has made a long-term commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. i voted in favour of the measure in the hope that the overall architecture would be better articulated and that there would be better coordination between all the parties concerned, with a strong emphasis on monitoring, transparency, accountability and shared responsibility for development outcomes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe it is important to improve aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. but i believe that the european union should further improve the links in the overall development architecture and at the same time ensure greater coordination between all the parties concerned. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid and therefore also has a particular responsibility to improve its effectiveness and transparency if it really wants this aid to have an impact on the fight against poverty, in a context of humanitarian and economic crises and increasing resource scarcity. the report provides a good analysis of the progress made in the five years since the european parliament's commitments at the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness. it also contains suggestions on how to continue efforts to make european development cooperation increasingly effective and to achieve the objectives of sustainable development and the addis ababa action programme. the institutional mechanism of the 'global partnership for effective development cooperation' (gpedc), which was drawn up five years ago, has produced good results. as we are calling for in this report, it is now appropriate to develop new practices to further improve aid effectiveness, such as triangular cooperation projects, greater involvement of national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector.
in writing. ‒ in the new context of the 2030 agenda, and in view of the need to 'do more with less', greater effectiveness in aid delivery and development cooperation remains crucial in order to help alleviate poverty and tackle the root causes of migration. the report identifies a number of important issues. the eu and its member states could, for example, work on new initiatives to develop triangular cooperation projects involving emerging donors and middle-income countries. i agree with the rapporteur that governance based on the rule of law and respect for human rights in developing countries is an indispensable element for development aid to play its role in reducing poverty. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report, considering it of paramount importance that the eu and the member states commit themselves to working on new initiatives for more effective development cooperation. firstly, i agree with the importance of increased funding for cooperation policies, and therefore with the need for the member states to honour their commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gross national income to development aid. i also share the need for greater transparency on the part of the eu, national parliaments and private actors in planning, for example through reporting that makes data, information and action plans more accessible, timely and comparable at eu level. in this regard, appropriate support should be given to the parliaments of the beneficiary countries as assistance can only be effective if the recipients are committed and accountable and ensure the full participation of local actors in the implementation and monitoring of development programmes.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to focus on the quality and effectiveness of the resources allocated. development aid is made up of many items, including financing for international agencies, development banks and aid credits. all of these are useful components, but we must not lose sight of the central objective, which is to fight poverty by supporting the development of population support policies in countries and the implementation of effective interventions in the framework of the 2030 agenda. the eu and its member states are invited to work on new initiatives to develop triangular cooperation projects involving emerging donors and middle-income countries. the eu, including at delegation level, and its member states could be more proactive and systematically involve national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and private actors in development assistance programming and financial commitments by publishing country-specific analyses of development cooperation aid. it is also essential to reduce the administrative costs which account for too high a proportion of official development assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. as the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, we have an important responsibility and should be able to lead global efforts to increase development worldwide. the report recalls that the eu is committed to unlocking its aid and acknowledges the progress made in this area; calls on all development aid providers to step up their efforts to accelerate aid dismantling globally. the eu, which played an important role in the adoption of the 2030 agenda, should continue to take the lead on these. the addis ababa programme of action has led to the creation of a united nations ecosoc forum on financing for development, in addition to the biennial ecosoc forum on development cooperation which aims to be a global forum for the sharing of knowledge on trends and progress in international development cooperation. the gpedc offers a unique perspective in that it focuses on the relationships between development actors and monitors progress in the application of aid effectiveness and development principles.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days there have been indiscriminate attacks on schools and hospitals, including the use of chemical weapons. the population is exhausted by severe shortages of basic foodstuffs and medical supplies in cities controlled by the warring parties. syria, it has been said, is worn down by six years of conflict and is in urgent need of a serious political solution involving all the parties concerned. the european union and the united nations themselves must of course play a mediating role in order to revive the peace process and guarantee humanitarian access. but here's the thing. if we do not want chaos and the balance of power in the region to determine a new balance, then i ask you, mr high representative, whether the time has not come to make some political choices that go beyond the humanitarian aspects and produce a genuine european view of what this new balance must be, avoiding leaving the field, on the one hand, to russia alone or to the wishes of the new american administration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have today discussed the management of post-war reconstruction, but in reality these seem to me to be distant mirages, since we are still hearing the sound of bombs in the background and we are witnessing a humanitarian tragedy for which we are all responsible, not just certain geopolitical actors. and to this day many of these actors still have the illusion that they can win on the ground or at least that they can win as much advantage as possible in the negotiating table. the reality is that we are facing a scenario in which we, as the european union, could be overtaken by the choices and agreements of the new american administration, russia, the other regional actors - i am referring to the rapprochement between turkey and israel, but the same rapprochement between russia and turkey. the priority is to achieve a real, stable and credible truce. and this can only start with a realistic and pragmatic proposal, for example with a large autonomy of the regions, a federal syria or, in any case, a tripartite one. i do not think that manichean views and attacks will help us to get out of this humanitarian drama, and if we are not the protagonists, as realistic and pragmatic actors, i fear that we will instead be spectators of the choices of others.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, syria is today at the centre of a humanitarian tragedy, the result of a war which is perhaps in its bloodiest and most delicate phase at the moment. the resumption of air raids by russian and syrian forces could generate a huge humanitarian catastrophe in aleppo. oxfam, the syrian american medical society and the big heart foundation have called for a complete end to the ongoing conflict, and have decried the dire humanitarian situation with over 250,000 people trapped in the city, preparing to face the winter with food and water stocks running low and health facilities collapsing. there is no way to solve the syrian crisis with weapons: the military solution only causes more suffering. today more than ever, a diplomatic effort is needed. this option remains the only way out of the syrian crisis and stop the horror that this war is bringing with it. thank you, president mogherini, for what you are doing.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, last month you adopted a resolution on syria clearly asking the european union – which means in this case me personally – to play a more pronounced role as a european union. so collectively, all our institutions together, all our member states together – the institutions together means also parliament – were called on to play a more pronounced role in mediating a peace deal for syria. i remember very well, during the state of the union speech in september, not only president juncker but many of you called for a pronounced work of the european union on the future of syria. this is why it is quite surprising for me to hear some of you say that we should not focus on the future of syria. i would invite some coherence here in what we ask ourselves to do. i heard very clearly the first two interventions here, by mr preda and mr boştinaru, prioritising the two key elements of our work: first, delivering humanitarian aid and making sure this can happen; second, using all the diplomatic tools we have to find, or rather to build, a political solution to put an end to the war in syria. this is exactly the work we are doing: providing humanitarian aid, together with the un, together with international agencies, together with international ngos, with our people on the ground, still. you cannot imagining how difficult the conditions are, or maybe you can, and talking to all relevant players in the region to try and open ways for the political solution to the crisis. so if we are the ones, not some of them, but the ones financing humanitarian aid and making sure it can be delivered –obviously this does not depend only on us – but if we were not there, for sure there would be no humanitarian aid at all in the country. secondly, if we are the ones today still keeping open the talks, the dialogue, in a situation that otherwise is rather stalled, then i am sorry: i do not share the views of the few of you who have said that europe should be ashamed. i believe we are not the ones who should be ashamed about syria. we are doing our job, finally, maybe, but we are. the point is, this is not enough. we need the unity of the international community, so this is also part of our work. six years of war; five years of polarisation in the international community. you remember that very well. this year for the first time, thanks in part to our work in the international support group, we managed to have unity in the security council for the first time ever – even though we are not a member of the security council. you know that very well, but we managed to facilitate consensus in the security council twice, and those were the only weeks where aid was delivered, syrians were getting out into the streets, trying to live a normal life again. these are the efforts we have to make in order to continue to build the unity of the international community. otherwise, our efforts alone will be necessary and indispensable. we will continue to do that, but doing so alone would not be enough. we have to be a key player, but we cannot pretend we will be the only player. we have to build alliances, starting with those we have worked with well these past months. we have our role to play, and we are now playing it fully. this was maybe not necessarily the case in past years in the first years of the conflict, but here, now, the european union is there, politically and from a humanitarian perspective – not from a military perspective. this is not because we do not have a european army, but because of a clear political decision that was taken and i am sincerely proud that we are not a military player on the ground. we are not part of the war in syria. having said that, why focus on post-conflict? some of you asked this and some others explained why, but let me say a few words on that. firstly, many conflicts in the past were solved exactly when the parties started to see the endgame shaping up. sometimes it works, sometimes it does not, but we are facing a war and a crisis that does not allow us to leave any of the possibilities untried. when you start shaping the endgame, the parties would feel more confident engaging in direct talks, so this is a contribution we can make to the un efforts to restart direct talks and find common ground. secondly, we need to be ready for the construction – the reconstruction – of syria. at a certain moment, it will come; it will cost an enormous amount of money. how many conflicts in our region have faced the problem of nothing following the end of the conflict and have thus fallen back into conflict after maybe a few months or a few years? working on post-conflict reconstruction today is fundamental so as to be ready at the moment when arms are finally laid down. thirdly, to give hope to the syrians – not only to the refugees, but also to the internally displaced people and those that are still living in syria in their own communities; to offer positive incentives; to offer the dividends for peace that make it possible for the parties to engage. last but not least, you mentioned empowering the local players that can still be a force for good in their country – the women, the small experiences of civil society that are still struggling, the churches, the communities that are taking care of their own everyday lives, the children, and the women. this is work that the european union does, but does not expect any of the big military players to do on the ground. we can be – and we are – a force for good in syria. others are not, true – definitely true! we cannot delete this issue, but we can maybe compensate, maybe engage, or maybe encourage a more positive dynamic on the ground and diplomatically. this is the work we are doing. i thank you for the support in this effort. it will be needed, because it will not be something that we will solve in one week or one month. i am sure that we are now on the right track as regards what the european union can and should do, and what it finally is doing.
in writing. we are appalled by the continuing violence that continues to plague the syrian people. we strongly condemn the attacks on humanitarian convoys, the serious violations of international humanitarian law and the possible war crimes. respect for human rights and the rights of religious minorities, including christians, is of the utmost importance. it is necessary for the syrian people to continue to live peacefully in the territories that are historically and traditionally part of their country, in dignity, equality and security, and to practice their religion and beliefs. the european union and the quintet states (the united states, france, germany, italy and the united kingdom) have an important role to play in finding a political solution to the syrian conflict. it is important to support timely and concrete action involving the general assembly and the work of the un special envoy as a matter of urgency.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report, and also the rapporteur, mrs weber, for the report. these are outrageous, chilling figures. forty thousand people arrested without charge; 130,000 people fired without cause; 145 journalists in prison, the highest number of journalists in prison in the world. one third of the judges and prosecutors in prison; 11,000 teachers suspended; ten deputies thrown in jail, followed by 36 mayors, replaced by state commissioners. now, all of this is not justifiable even in the light of a coup d'état, which we immediately contested and condemned. it's not justifiable! it is a tragic situation, and even a group such as the socialist and democratic group, which has always been and remains in favour of turkey's accession, cannot but raise the question of a freeze on the accession talks. not a break but a freeze that is a strong political signal, on the one hand to erdogan: don't go that way! do not go down the road of political repression of rights! you are back in the interests of your people, who want a modern democracy anchored in europe. and we must therefore send a clear signal by freezing the talks, but we must leave the door open to dialogue so that in the future - i hope in the immediate future - we can resume the discussion and work together towards the full democratization of turkey, which is a partner which, for geopolitical, geostrategic and, in my view, also religious reasons, is fundamental for the european union. but the measure is indeed full. we democratic socialists would never have reached this point if we had not really been confronted with an aberrant and dramatic reality. we cannot remain silent! we will not accept any blackmail! the european union cannot accept any blackmail when the values of democracy and respect for human rights are at stake, and i am pleased that this parliament can express, as i am sure a large majority of our colleagues will do, firm positions on this situation, on the freezing of talks but also positions open to dialogue for the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is moving further and further away from europe. erdogan's counter-coup is strengthening his authoritarian power and stifling legitimate parliamentary and civil society opposition to his government, as well as press and citizen freedom of expression. the systematic repression of opponents of the turkish government is being carried out with endless purges, particularly ferocious against the kurdish minority: it is being implemented through a disproportionate number of arrests, dismissals, expulsions of university professors, public and private employees, members of the judiciary and parliament, and closure of newspapers, to which is added the chilling hypothesis of the reintroduction of the death penalty and legislative interventions that are detrimental to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. reports in the media say that erdogan now has the numbers for a constitutional reform in the "hyperpresidentialist" sense, to give himself even more authoritarian power. there is also talk of a reprehensible bill, introduced by the president's party, to decriminalize child abuse and which would further aggravate the serious phenomenon of child brides. this situation is contrary not only to turkey's commitments to join the european union but also to its international obligations to protect human rights. the condemnation of these actions cannot be confined to words. we strongly urge the immediate suspension of the accession negotiations concerning turkey and of the european funds allocated to it. the circumstances are such that the agreement on immigration and asylum must also be suspended. the european union and all its member states must firmly condemn what is happening in turkey and prevent its authoritarian turn to produce even more serious results.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it takes a great deal of courage and a great deal of impudence to put us, who have spent these years and especially the last few months in these seats, in the dock as friends of erdogan, to call the attention of this hypocritical europe, which has totally entrusted itself, or rather entrusted the poor syrian refugees to a satrap like erdogan, the democratic europeanist erdogan, who was your friend until yesterday or the day before. today i do not seem to be your friend any more, but from the sweet words of the high representative, who does not quite understand what he wants to do with turkey, we have heard that we must save what can be saved, etc., etc., we have also heard that turkey is important because it is a pillar of nato: but what he did not tell us was that some turkish nato officers are seeking political asylum in europe because they think they could be jailed at any moment and perhaps shot tomorrow. this is the situation of a country which is outside the rules, as well as the moral and historical vision of our european democracy. it is a country and a regime against which we should have already adopted sanctions and then definitively blocked the negotiations, unlike in other situations. and if anything, measures should have been taken not against syrian refugees, who are not dangerous, but against the very dangerous men from turkey, among us in germany, and you do not even notice! let's clean up germany of the men and spies of the turkish regime, who are ready to devastate our democracy! and yet you haven't been doing it, you bad germans, that you don't liberate your country. it takes more than a clown, it would take the trump cure to free europe from certain dangers, the trump cure! i'll tell you right away that i don't accept the blue card, because you have no right to talk about democracy... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to begin by saying a warm good morning to the many colleagues who have finally woken up. i wonder where they were when we were denouncing, over the years, the very long list of authoritarian and freedom-killing actions put in place by the erdogan government and the current turkish executive. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. and yet there, perhaps, no one complained or perhaps few, because it was convenient. we must also remember the neo-imperialist territorial ambitions towards aleppo, mosul and syrian kurdistan, the intention to question decades-old treaties, the will to deny the courageous kurds of rojava the right to self-determination, the intervention of operation euphrates shield to combat their advance rather than to confront daesh. or do we want to repeat what many have said, namely the continuing denial of human rights, civil and political freedoms, the arrest of 12 parliamentarians like us who have lost their immunity and are now in turkish jails? or do we still want to remember the arrest of 142 journalists, the last one akin atalay on november 11? not to mention the prescriptions, the purges of tens of thousands of civil servants, teachers, judges and policemen. and finally, the proposal to decriminalize sexual violence against minors through arranged marriages. not to mention the extension of the mandate, maybe to 2029, without going through the elections. democracy is no more in turkey and this is a fact which we must take note of and react to. we call for an immediate suspension, sine die, of the accession process and of the funds for accession. we demand the immediate rejection of the illegal immigration agreement and the rejection of immigration blackmail. because europe cannot be paralysed by merkel's fears of the next german elections. turkish civil society is asking us today to give a strong response and without a strong response against erdogan, we will leave the turks to their fate. that is what we must do today. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for asking, mr. frunzulică. i can tell you that, so far, the strategy of closing our eyes and carrying on the negotiations, regardless of what is happening, has not paid off, because erdogan has continued in his project constantly and so, at this moment, perhaps the only chance to resume a serious dialogue is to show us credible interlocutors, who in the face of these violations know how to take strong decisions and know how to implement them. we can then sit down again and see if the turkish side will become aware of this. if we continue to look the other way, if we continue to close our eyes, i think there will be no hope of restoring at least decent diplomatic relations with our turkish counterpart.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like many of you, i am watching with great concern the recent events in turkey. the attempted coup d'état last july remains an undemocratic act to be condemned, which should be met with proportionate countermeasures. so unfortunately it was not. in a country which has long been a candidate for membership, we cannot accept the repeated violations of the rule of law, mass arrests and the failure to protect human rights, as well as the possible reintroduction of the death penalty. europe is not only an economic union but above all a community of values. in the committee on international trade we have been discussing in recent weeks proposals for the renewal of the eu-turkey trade framework and for the modernisation of the customs union with ankara. in this respect too, we must be consistent with our values: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, and we must not allow the turkish people to continue to be a party to the conflict.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, israeli settlements are considered illegal by the un, the european union and the international court of justice. it is good to remind colleagues of this. their existence - and i saw it in person when i was on a mission with my colleagues from the delegation for relations with palestine in february - is an obstacle to the achievement of a peace agreement in the short term between israelis and palestinians, a solution which should be based on a two-state solution. but, colleagues, vice president mogherini, how can we still not sound utopian when we talk about two states, when between 2009 and 2014 there was a 23% increase in the number of settlements, when the settlers have now exceeded half a million people, when still on 16 november the israeli parliament passed a law in a preliminary reading that would allow israeli citizens to forcibly appropriate private land in palestinian territory, limiting themselves to compensating the owners with a sum of money. the netanyahu government continues to protect the settlers, providing them with water, electricity, transportation services and total impunity. i conclude: i ask you, vice president mogherini... the repeated condemnations of a european and now also of the united states have not prevented the settlements from growing beyond measure .... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, it has been six months since you rightly called for a moratorium on israeli settlements in this house. since then, israel has not only continued unabated the expropriation of land from bedouin communities, the exploitation of natural resources, the destruction and confiscation of hundreds of palestinian and european structures, but a few days ago, as you recalled, the knesset approved, on a preliminary basis, a bill legalizing all israeli settlements in the west bank over the past twenty years, in violation of both international humanitarian law and israeli legislation itself. we are not dealing here with a clash of religions, much less a clash of civilizations, but with a power that oppresses a people who are de facto stateless and without rights. failure to report such a situation is tantamount to being an accomplice. i agree with what you said, but for these very reasons, before the settlements forever jeopardise the possibility of a two-state peace agreement and before the trump administration decides to move the american embassy to jerusalem, it is necessary for the european union to make its role as the main economic partner of the region - and i want to stress this - more visible by using all the instruments at its disposal and by demanding the necessary compensation for the demolitions carried out to the detriment of the palestinians and european taxpayers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i share your view that only the european union has the political strength and credibility to bring to fruition the idea of international unity leading to the recognition of the two states and, therefore, to peace in those territories. but, beyond the foreign policy of the new president of the united states, i believe that in order to get this process moving and for your work to have a positive return, it is essential that, in the very short term, you achieve certain objectives: the first is to stop the expansion of the demolitions and the settlements that have been made. the second is to seek compensation, especially where european union projects are involved, using all the instruments at the disposal of the european union itself. without a concrete result in the near future, even the most noble attempt to create this international unity risks being a good intention that breaks against the wall erected, this time politically, by israel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a committed european federalist, i can only be happy that there is finally serious talk of concrete steps towards a common european defence, as parliament has been calling for for many years. of course, it took disruptive events like brexit, the victory of trump in the united states, the deterioration of security in the geopolitical theatres close to home, even the challenge of the refugee crisis, to show even more clearly that the union cannot fully pursue its external interests and work for peace and security unless it has the right tools. i am thinking in particular of the multinational forces, which can be achieved through permanent structured cooperation, and which can be made available to the common security and defence policy, as already provided for in the treaty of lisbon. perhaps the current global security framework is pushing in this direction, and we have now reached greater common ground to give full implementation to the provisions of the treaty, towards a full review of the common security and defence policy in cooperation and complementarity with nato, to finally transform the european union into an entity capable of assuming its responsibilities to ensure the security of its citizens, its neighbourhood and the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the security situation in europe has deteriorated significantly, becoming more unstable and complex. the response of the member states to this situation has been uncoordinated and fragmented, complicating and often hindering the adoption of a uniform approach. i am in favour of the introduction of coordination mechanisms, such as the establishment of a permanent union headquarters for civilian and military missions and operations, from which to oversee the entire planning cycle, from the initial political concept to the detailed plans. however, all council decisions on future missions and operations should give priority to intervention in conflicts directly affecting the security of the union or the security of partners and regions where the union is a guarantor of security. the decision to intervene should be based on a common analysis and understanding of the strategic context and on the shared strategic interests of the member states, taking into account the actions of other allies and organisations such as the un and nato.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the great respect of anyone who cares about freedom and history and the worship of history for the sacrifice of those who, as the rapporteur reminded us, fought for freedom and against the tentacles of international communism during the cold war, should not prevent us from noticing something anomalous in this report, which unexpectedly puts propaganda - because there is certainly propaganda from the russian federation - on the same level as the activities of daesh. so, if anything, we had to make two very distinct reports, in which to talk about one thing and we would have voted that is the danger of islamic propaganda that comes from everywhere (with the consent of those who have always minimized the danger of mosques and now suddenly realize it). as for the calls to regard this report as a report defending our freedoms, i wonder why these gentlemen are not asking this parliament to control the propaganda of the big multinationals, banks and lobbies which are masters in this parliament and which every day make propaganda against the interests of our people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the skills guarantee is certainly a good idea, because it starts with the identification of a very serious and at the same time very practical problem. our societies are changing at an accelerating pace, driven by globalisation and the evolution of new technologies. this phenomenon, which is displacing politics and which is having difficulty governing, is clearly turning into a displacement of the workforce, not only in terms of the skills needed to perform new types of employment, but also in the field of rights and industrial relations. there is no doubt that there is a deep need today to give guarantees to workers and those who want to be workers, and the question from the committee on employment seeks to understand better what kind of guarantee the european commission has in mind, what resources and how much to use to make it work, what strategy to adopt to make it effective and flexible, but also binding in the union and its member states. i would really like to see a real commitment to this instrument, which aims to empower people by ensuring a minimum level of skills for everyone using european funds to the fullest.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have taken note of your comments and your observations. i will not address every point you have raised here, but will focus on just a few points to conclude. the success of the skills agenda will depend on the commitment and active engagement of many players, as we have just discussed. we think first and foremost of member states and regional authorities, and i am happy that just yesterday member states confirmed their commitment. this is very important. we also need businesses, trade unions, education and training institutions and ngos – as well, of course, as workers and learners themselves. the european parliament has a key role to play in raising the political profile of this debate, both in europe and in your home countries. you are indeed active and valued partners in shaping our initiatives, and i want to thank you again for your input and for your continued support.
in writing. to reduce the number of low-skilled adults in europe, the commission has proposed the introduction of a 'skills guarantee'. the initiative should help low-skilled adults to acquire a minimum level of literacy, mathematics and digital skills. i think that there are some gaps in this proposal which should be filled. the commission calls on the member states to draw up an action plan for the implementation of this 'skills guarantee' without providing for a mechanism or body to support the member states in drawing up and monitoring this plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission refers to the use of several eu funds, for example the european social fund and the erasmus+ programme, but without defining appropriate procedures that allow the combination of these different funding without creating bureaucratic burdens. another gap in the proposal that should be filled is the strategy that the commission should adopt to involve the member states in this non-legally binding initiative. without a clear strategy to help make the skills guarantee operational, the potential benefits risk being undermined.
member of the commission. – madam president, the challenges of the deaf and hard of hearing community do not yet get enough attention in the european union, and i am therefore grateful to members of the european parliament, helga stevens and ádám kósa for constantly reminding us of what still needs to be done in order to ensure that all european citizens can participate actively in society. commissioner tibor navracsics recently took part in a conference on sign languages and human rights, organised by helga stevens, which showcased the challenges faced by the deaf and the hard of hearing on a daily basis. the commission was impressed by the professional competence of the sign language interpreters, who were conveying the speeches in more than 30 sign languages. the commission welcomes the political groups’ initiatives for a motion for a resolution, because we believe that more should be done to show respect for the deaf and hard of hearing community and its languages. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union explicitly excludes any form of discrimination, and the disability strategy 2010-2020 stresses the principle of social inclusion. the commission believes in, and promotes, inclusive education. whenever possible, schools should open their doors to deaf children, ensuring that the conditions are met for their successful inclusion in the classroom. sign language interpretation should be provided whenever possible for public services. education and language policy falls under the exclusive competence of the member states. however, the commission supports them through facilitating cooperation and exchange of best practices. the erasmus+ programme already funds a number of partnerships and mobility projects that develop open educational resources and train sign language teachers and interpreters. for example, the research project developing and documenting sign bilingual best practice in schools maps the situation of sign bilingual education in 39 european countries. the european forum of sign language interpreters provides opportunities for meetings, conferences and exchange of experiences. we also have the toolkit signs for handshakes, deaf—youth—meets—employers, and the european language label. more support for sign languages is provided through the research programme horizon 2020, and there again we have many examples: information technology is used for the early detection of and compensation for hearing impairment, and also to develop applications supporting the use of sign languages, for example. another example is that a digital archive presenting the life narratives of elderly signers has developed. remote communication between signing and speaking people through applications that translate text into sign languages is made possible, and another example under horizon 2020 is an interactive digital atlas of the linguistic structures of the world’s sign languages. as regards the commission, the directorate general for interpretation regularly provides sign language interpretation for eu—level meetings. to support the full participation of those using sign languages, interpreters tailor their services by discussing with participants whether international sign language is appropriate or whether a national sign language is needed. as you can see, the commission has come a long way since this house adopted its last resolution on sign language recognition in 1998, but we know we can and should do more to ensure our societies not only tolerate diversity, but also cherish and promote it. the commission therefore welcomes this resolution, and will continue supporting sign languages, their users and their interpreters.
the s&d group is therefore calling for the introduction of a european standard for the interpretation of sign language, which is a fundamental requirement for the development of the european union. this is an inalienable right of over one million european deaf sign language users and 51 million deaf citizens. we talk about the possibility of leading independent lives, of receiving inclusive and quality education, of increasing employability, of being guaranteed the right to health, of having equal access to justice. we are talking about the possibility of active participation in political and democratic processes, as well as the creation and exchange of culture. the eu's motto is 'united in diversity' and that is why we have always been committed to promoting linguistic richness and pluralism. it 's time to take it to the next level . today we call on the eu and the member states to recognise national and regional sign languages, to recognise the professional status of sign language interpreters and to provide quality training and supervision for this profession.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to make the world of knowledge, information and work accessible: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. so accessibility is the frontier of rights: accessibility in the places where we live, train, work, but also in digital spaces. to achieve this, it is necessary to promote the spread of new technologies, but also to guarantee interpreting in the institutions, namely in places of care, justice and training, and to guarantee that professionals are trained so that their work is of quality, not precarious, but recognized above all in the public administration chain. i conclude, of course, by expressing my support for the wish: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that the european institutions will promote the teaching of sign language in schools of all levels and grades, so that a new social accessibility can be achieved.
member of the commission. dear members of the european parliament, thank you for your debate. thank you also for your valuable contribution to the efforts we certainly still need to make to ensure that deaf people and hard of hearing people have full participation and genuine equality of opportunity. in my introduction i referred to a number of commitments of the european union and the european commission, as well as commitments we have made, including in the context of the un convention on the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities. i have also pointed out to you a number of projects which are currently being financed by european funds. i would also remind you that we have embodied that same commitment in our proposal for a european accessibility law, which of course also seeks to offer people with disabilities a much better and full participation in all aspects of our society. you have made a number of concrete proposals for improvement, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament. i am sure that they will be clearly stated in the resolution you are voting on tomorrow and you can count on us to give you a detailed written response to those proposals. then i shall not take up any more of the time that is scarce this evening. thank you for your input, thank you for your efforts and thank you, madam president.
a writer. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, trade and the environment are closely linked. the relationship between the two areas, however, is not clear. one could argue that the expansion of international trade and growth is one of the causes of global warming. however, it is important to acknowledge that globalisation has contributed to the spread of technologies with a low environmental impact and better standards. that is why we think the green goods agreement, which is being negotiated by 17 parties, including the united states and china, as well as the european union, is so important. the negotiations, which, as we know, have had successive phases of speed and success, but which could be concluded in december, have some critical elements. we have therefore put this question to clarify the commission's strategy and the union's offensive and defensive interests in the field of environmental goods. there are two concerns at the heart of our request. the first, conceptual, concerns the nature of the agreement itself and, in particular, the objective of contributing to the fight against climate change. we fear that the agreement may betray the results of the paris conference, because of the lack of a definition of 'environmental goods'. we wonder how the environmental credibility of the agreement can be safeguarded by including some products which can hardly be classified as environmentally friendly or energy-efficient. equally worrying is the choice to disregard the impact of production and the potential for dual use of selected items. increased imports from countries with less stringent regulations could lead to an increase in emissions. i would remind you that when we talk about dumping we are not referring only to the economic dimension but also to the social and environmental consequences. the liberalization of certain products such as bicycles, whose manufacturing process in europe meets the most stringent standards, could paradoxically have a negative ecological impact. a ton of co2 emitted in a country with less stringent regulations is not only equally harmful, it is also cheaper. we are thinking of articles such as pipes, and we ask the commission how it intends to regulate any dual use of such articles. one tube could be used for a water recycling plant or for the construction of an oil pipeline. the second concern is economic. europe is a leader in environmental goods. we are aware of the continuing growth of the sector and the associated fall in employment, and we wonder whether the offensive european interests are actually reflected in the agreement. in fact, apart from duties, the main obstacles faced by our companies are non-tariff barriers. we fear that their exclusion could harm our interests. europe cannot afford to increase its exposure to competition without gaining equal access to foreign markets. another important exclusion concerns services. for example, maintenance and repair of a wind farm can reach 40% of the total value of the sale: we therefore ask the commission how the negotiations are proceeding to include both of these aspects. in conclusion, the current state of the environment requires us to take concrete action against climate change. at the same time, this agreement could offer great economic potential for a fast-growing sector. we cannot afford to lose this opportunity to demonstrate that trade is also a tool for sustainable development and can therefore contribute to improving the lives of people and the planet.
the agenda includes the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants (com (2013) 0920 - c7-0004/2014 - 2013/0443 (cod)) (a8-0249/2015).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that today 92% of the world's population lives in places where air quality levels do not meet the limits set by the world health organisation. every year in europe 490,000 people die from smog or pollution in general in our cities. that's one-eighth of the total deaths in our territory. yet, incredibly, the new text on national emission limits has weakened the reduction targets, thus failing to save 10 000 people a year. you also have to explain why you have excluded methane from the list of polluting gases, despite the fact that it is a greenhouse gas 21 times more harmful to the environment than co2. this change of direction by the big groups goes against the fundamental right to health of the european citizens, while defending the usual oil companies, the incinerator lobbies, as well as the agricultural sector. we often hear from the big groups in this chamber that we are eurosceptic and populist, but it is precisely these actions that are disintegrating the european union, which is being rejected by european citizens today more than ever. it is precisely these actions that the people detest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the right to clean air is a fundamental right, like the right to health. i would like to mention a very specific case from my own country, puglia, where 90 people die every year from the ilva plant in taranto alone. i think this is one of the cases which shows that the subject we are discussing today is fundamental to the health of citizens and that is why we cannot accept any downward compromise on the air quality node. we would have liked binding interim targets for 2025; i think that the council is, unfortunately, imposing a downward mediation from this point of view. so the point is that this parliament really needs to send a very, very clear message on the air quality issue. i believe that the credibility of this house is also at stake in these matters.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs girling for the important work she has done and the result achieved. we have heard different opinions in this chamber. one thing is certain: 400 000 citizens die every year as a result of air pollution. and something had to be done with a policy, a very community intervention. we did, and the deal is probably not the best deal. we have heard from some that they would like to see many more targets, many more pollutants included in the final agreement. but an agreement is better than no agreement. and when mrs girling and i were faced with the choice in the negotiations of having to accept an agreement which was lower than parliament's position, but which was going in the right direction, we chose the agreement. we have chosen to start a process, a process which will significantly reduce deaths in europe from air quality, which will lead to better quality for the citizens living in europe, and it is certainly a step in the right direction. i shall therefore vote in favour of this announcement and ask all my colleagues to do the same. it's not fair to criticize if you're not moving in the right direction. criticism alone does not produce positive effects for european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support this proposal. the goal is to clean the air we breathe. the 400 000 premature deaths per year, as has been said many times, are an unacceptable cost. the 300 billion euro in healthcare expenditure for chronic respiratory diseases alone is an unsustainable cost. air pollution does not stop at the borders of individual states with walls, which is never good. this directive will significantly reduce pollution across the european union, with realistic and achievable targets by 2030. we would have liked an even more ambitious text, but i consider this an important step forward in a wider strategy which must involve all the productive sectors: industry 4.0, green agriculture and more sustainable mobility. a smart environmental policy does not reduce jobs but creates new and better-qualified ones. this is not a final step, but a decisive contribution to a more sustainable development model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached with the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants will make it possible to halve by 2030 the number of premature deaths caused by toxic pollution. at present, there are more than 400 000 per year in europe alone. but the limits identified by the directive are far from the recommendations made by the world health organization, which parliament has tried to defend in every way during the trilogue phase. the short-sighted attitude of some member states will result in about 10 000 additional premature deaths each year. the flexibility criteria introduced are also unsatisfactory, which will make the limits more difficult to apply. the authorization given to member states to regulate emissions according to seasonal temperatures or to compensate for the reduction in emissions in one sector by the higher emissions produced in another sector raises a number of concerns. the hope is that the member states will change the short-sighted attitude they have shown during the negotiations. breathing clean air is a right of citizens and the european union must raise the bar of ambition. we must do this for ourselves and for the new generations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the outcome of cop22 in marrakech (2016/2995 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, one year after the paris agreement, the conference in marrakech last week clearly marked a new phase in global climate governance. at the outset, let me highlight that the european union has shown its strong commitment to climate action by ratifying the paris agreement on 5 october 2016. following the consent given by parliament, the ratification of the agreement by the eu, together with seven member states, triggered its entry into force on 4 november 2016 and confirmed the key role of the european union in the multilateral process. this was clearly recognised in marrakech. overall, 112 parties ratified the paris agreement by 18 november. the european union can be satisfied with the result of the marrakech conference. we witnessed the unprecedented quick entry into force of the paris agreement, the progress made on the development of its rules and the major demonstration of activities by non-state actors. this all confirmed the determination of the international community to continue moving forward, with a transition towards a low emission and climate-resilient future. the european union’s main objective at the marrakech conference was to put on track the swift preparation for the effective and comprehensive implementation of all the elements of the paris agreement. marrakech demonstrated progress and enabled action in the following areas: first, the subsidiary bodies outlined the work to establish the paris rulebook, including the progress on the features of nationally determined contributions, the transparency framework, the adaptation mechanism and the adaptation registry. other elements to be mentioned are the global stock take, the sustainable development mechanism concerning markets, non-market approaches and the compliance mechanism. the cop also mandated the current and incoming presidencies to start preparations for the 2018 facilitative dialogues. secondly, progress was made on enhancing action and transparency before 2020, including on the predictability of climate finance flows to developing countries; on loss and damage, namely the review of the warsaw international mechanism; on technology development and transfer, capacity-building mechanisms, methodological issues, response measures, as well as on measures concerning gender and indigenous peoples. thirdly, the global climate action agenda was another key part of marrakech. the action agenda builds on the growing momentum from stakeholders to mobilise global action in the water sector and in the areas of oceans, disaster risk reduction, agriculture, forestry, transport, energy and human settlements. all these initiatives by non-state actors support the convention and the aims of the paris agreement. amongst many other issues, i would like to highlight the second round of the multilateral assessment process, which took place in marrakech. nineteen eu member states and the european union successfully completed the process of reviewing the progress made in the implementation of emission reductions and removals related to their quantified economy-wide emission reduction targets. the remaining member states will follow next year. and finally, the conference made a high-level political statement, the marrakech action proclamation, which reflects the continuous political commitment towards the implementation of the paris agreement and reaffirms the willingness of all participants to fight against climate change and to support sustainable development.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister, it is a pleasure to be here today, having just returned from the cop22 in marrakech, where almost 200 countries met against the background of the early ratification and entry into force of the paris agreement. first, i want to thank the european parliament’s delegation to cop for their very strong support throughout the conference. this enabled the european union to stay unified as we forge ahead on global climate action. i also want to take this opportunity, in the presence of the minister, to thank the slovak presidency for the close cooperation, both in the preparations and during the cop22. i will also stress again my appreciation for parliament’s role in ensuring the early ratification of the agreement, which enabled the marrakech conference to convene the first ever meeting of the parties to the paris agreement. cop22 lived up to expectations as an action and implementation cop. it is true that, in the light of the united states election results, we face political challenges and uncertainties ahead, but the message from marrakech was nevertheless clear: we will stand by paris; we will defend paris; and we will implement paris. the marrakech action proclamation reflects the spirit of cop22. it is a statement of global unity, confirming that the parties remain committed to climate action post—paris and the transition to a global low—carbon economy. important progress was also achieved under the paris work programme. the parties agreed a clear way forward to ensure that the rule book will be ready by 2018, and advanced on key elements to guide the implementation of the agreement, including transparency and the five-year ambition cycle. solidarity with our international partners is critical if we wish to maintain global momentum on climate action, and the parties welcomed the adoption of the 2020 climate finance roadmap as progress towards the goal of mobilising usd 100 million by 2020. member states have also shown their commitment to supporting the most vulnerable countries in dealing with the impacts of climate change. several european union member states announced that new contributions to the adaptation fund, which now stands at usd 81 million, directly supporting developing countries in their efforts to cope with the effects of climate change. in addition, the parties also showed a continued commitment to capacity building and the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage. a decision was adopted on the review of the mechanism, which will result in increasing its potential and effectiveness and confirming the shared commitment of parties to address the concerns of the most vulnerable countries. on the action agenda, cop22 included an impressive range of high—level side—events. this enabled countries, states, regions, cities, the private sector and ngos to come together under the global climate action agenda to showcase inspiring climate action initiatives to reduce emissions, transition to a low—carbon economy and support our partners in the mitigation and adaptation efforts. besides several other major actions, cop22 saw the launch of the international ndc partnership. we will support developing countries in the implementation of the nationally determined contributions to the paris agreement. the european union played an instrumental role in achieving the marrakech outcomes, and there was regular effective coordination with member states, no red lines were crossed and all politically sensitive options were considered carefully and collectively. the european union member states negotiated with flexibility, and their commitment to delivering a positive outcome in marrakech was very clear. the european union also demonstrated its determination to making significant efforts to scale up support to climate relevant action. in 2015, the european union and its member states provided eur 17.6 billion to help developing countries tackle climate change. moreover, the european external investment plan expected to trigger public and private investment of up to eur 44 billion in africa and the european union’s neighbourhood area had a very positive reception by our international partners. the high ambition coalition – the alliance of developed and developing countries that made possible the paris agreement – also convened during cop22. the meeting helped to define our joint negotiation strategy during the cop, as well as to exchange views on the potential impact of the outcome of the united states elections on the united nation negotiation process. what is clear is that, given the current uncertainties, the high ambition coalition has a renewed sense of purpose as we move ahead with the implementation of the paris agreement. now that we have returned from marrakech, the hard work does not stop. in the current uncertain geopolitical setting the european union must, more than ever, remain steady on its course to a low—carbon, energy-efficient future. marrakech showed us we are not alone. the momentum keeps growing in many of our g20 partners, including china, that are more determined than ever. we have good scope for scaling up international collaboration in terms of bilateral policy dialogues and sharing experiences. i will do the necessary to deliver on this. i will also work closely with the german g20 presidency to make sure we exploit the positive opening under the g20 to follow up on the paris implementation. in addition to strengthening our strategic partnerships, we must continue to demonstrate to the world our commitment to climate action by implementing our ndc. our proposals on the 23rd legislative framework, including the european union ets and llucf, are now on the table, and i look forward to working with the parliament in the months ahead to ensure strict progress on this package. implementing the paris agreement is an unprecedented opportunity to modernise our economy and create jobs and growth. it is a central element in achieving broad and sustainable development goals as well as the european union priorities on investment, competitiveness, circular economy research, innovation and energy transition. therefore, we will also shortly come forward with a package under the title smart and clean energy for all europeans – a package of proposals which will put energy efficiency first, will reinvigorate our global leadership in renewables and deliver a fair deal for european consumers and citizens, as well as business and industry. together with existing proposals on the table, this package will ensure a comprehensive and coherent climate and energy policy framework up to 2030. it will deliver on our contribution to the paris agreement and will make bigger steps forward towards our overall vision for an energy union. in conclusion, honourable members, we have achieved marked progress this year on global climate action. less than twelve months ago, we adopted the paris agreement, and through commitment and hard work ensured its entry into force earlier this month. we still have much work to do to implement our commitments on the ground and i count on your continued support to turn our commitments into reality.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the marrakesh conference has produced concrete results. cop22 - we said it from the beginning - was the place to go from words to action. and we did it. i would like to thank commissioner arias cañete for his decisive action and for his continuous and constant contact with the parliament's delegation which i had the honour of chairing. almost 200 countries met in morocco and our delegation had many commitments, meeting many other national delegations and leading personalities. we can safely say that the progress made in marrakech is proof that the world will move forward in the fight against climate change. the marrakesh declaration demonstrated the solidarity and continuity of the member states with one another. cop22 leaves no doubt that: we must continue the path we started last year. the paris agreement would not have been possible without the trust between the parties, and we confirmed that trust in marrakesh. as far as the european union is concerned, we will continue to implement our commitments and achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, whatever happens. this is a bigger issue than any single country or any single election, even if this is the united states. we are facing a process which will take us to the end of the century and which i consider irreversible. beyond the uncertainties and the feared doubts, we will defend paris and implement paris. the transition to a clean economy has never begun and the european union will continue to be the pioneer and leader towards a sustainable and competitive economy.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cop22 should have been an action conference, but instead it was played on the defensive. the shadow of trump's pre-election statements was on the entire conference and in fact only a proclamation came out of marrakech, which, however, reiterates the will to continue united and compact in the implementation of what was decided and established in the paris agreement, which was not taken for granted, so it is good news anyway. we want to be positive and say that "irreversibility" and "cooperation" are the two key words of cop22. irreversibility, because the fight against climate change through the development of a sustainable economy is a mechanism that can no longer be stopped. not even by trump: doubts about the commitment of the united states were swept away by the words of outgoing secretary of state kerry, who explained how the same american economy, the same american businesses, will be the ones to get trump back on his feet. there's no going back. cooperation, because it is only through support, investment and knowledge transfer between developed and developing economies that the fight against global warming can be won. now, with the united states likely to be less motivated and less decisive at the negotiating table, it is up to the european union to take the lead in negotiations and policies against global warming. and the actions on which we must be strong and decisive now are above all those of individual countries. it is essential that the union push for a first review of the ndcs in the crucial year 2018, which is strong and ambitious and aimed at respecting the paris 1.5 degree limit. and it cannot and must not let its member states - as some, including italy, are already doing - start playing down. the newly formed 2050 pathway platform, which the european union has readily joined, needs to be pushed hard to make it an opportunity to strengthen member states' climate policies by integrating them into a broader and more effective plan. but how can we be credible about these commitments when europe itself still allocates over 300 billion a year for fossil fuel subsidies?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you to consider a statement i made: "kill the horse, walk home". and let us reflect on the very costly decisions that affect families, farmers, artisans and businesses and that, alas, impoverish our european countries. what are the effects of this years later? on the one hand, the impoverishment of labour, the impoverishment of manufacturing production in our countries, which has been relocated to china, india and brazil. but alas, the world's pollution has not diminished either. because it's obvious that if you move production from one place to another and you don't act on the real causes, you've moved pollution but you haven't reduced pollution. and so pollution continues to exist and is evidenced, alas, by the very actions that are being planned to spend over 100 billion dollars to reduce the environmental impact. the invitation i make in the package you are studying is to use these resources to bring production back to italy, to bring production back to europe, to bring production back to where there is a real culture of respect for the environment, where our citizens, businesses and entrepreneurs have a culture of respect and care for the environment. one last thought: you were able to bring together almost 200 heads of state to decide on the climate of the coming years: why can't you do that on immigration? (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i have no doubt that germany was able to take advantage of this. unfortunately, italy has not benefited from this: you think that 50% of the electricity bill is burdened by these costs in italy. so we have an electricity cost that is four to five times higher than other european countries. it's a fact. i come from lombardy and i was chairman of the committee on productive activities, so i speak from experience: we have unfortunately lost a number of manufacturing facilities in recent years, and i think that a country without manufacturing is not a country that can look to the future. there can be no policy of banking or speculative finance alone, but of production. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i have just heard you speak of the famous 100 billion which are being pooled internationally as european resources to integrate and invest in the industrial sector. you see, that fund has a very different purpose, and so i invite you to study before you speak.
answer to a blue-card question. i would have expected an explanation, given the opportunity. after that, i hope that, since those resources are still to be spent, all colleagues will think of using them to invest in producing wherever there is a culture of respect for the environment and therefore in european and italian companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the marrakesh summit should have dealt with the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change. it wasn't like that. still many promises and few facts. but climate change is not slowing down, as the world meteorological organization has announced that 2016 is set to be the warmest year since 1880. at this point, the paris agreement, even if it is implemented, despite donald trump's claims, will not be enough to keep us within two degrees of global warming. climate finance with funds like the green climate fund is expected to mobilize $100 billion a year in funding starting in 2020, but so far it has raised only $81 million for climate adaptation, and 91 percent of that is from europe. resources for climate change mitigation need to be rebalanced with those for adaptation policies. if we do not solve this problem, we risk dividing the international community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most alarming consequences of man-made climate change is the migration caused by environmental disasters. according to the international organization for migration, by 2050, at least 200-250 million people will be displaced by climate change; that's one person in every 45 in the world, an average of 6 million women and men forced to leave their homes every year. these are frightening numbers that could even reach, if the most dramatic of the scenarios imagined by the un agency were to come true, the staggering figure of one billion environmental refugees. unfortunately, the commitments made at cop22 still appear weak in this respect. while we await the states' implementation of the commitments they solemnly made in marrakesh, i hope that the european parliament will seize the opportunity offered by the reform of asylum legislation to provide adequate recognition and protection for environmental refugees.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have taken part in this debate and who have shown the house's interest in climate change policies. the commission has clearly played a very active role. we did it in paris, setting in motion the ambition of the grand coalition; in marrakesh, in negotiations that are different, much more technical, but moving forward on the road map. and we will have to continue in future cop's, future cop's which will be very different, they will not have that element of political negotiation so accentuated that paris had, but they will be cop's which are technically important to provide the paris agreement with the necessary instruments for its implementation and, on the other hand, they will be cop's of implementation, of developing our policies. at this cop, we saw that non-governmental actors were very present: municipalities, regions, autonomous communities, ngos, civil society, energy companies, renewable energy companies, energy efficiency companies, economic actors, social actors. it was a cop, as future cop's will be, to see best practices. i was asked what the commission's attitude is towards non-governmental actors: maximum collaboration and openness. we have worked very closely with the covenant of mayors, because we understood that cities are a crucible of very powerful climate change experiences, and we will continue to work with the rest of the non-governmental actors, with the committee of the regions and with all of these actors, because the fight against climate change is bottom up, it's not up bottom, and therefore we have to do it in a very participatory way. i want to say that 2016 has been a very positive year for climate change. 2015 had the emblematic paris agreement, but in 2016 we have ratified it - the european union and many of its member states, currently 16 member states, have already ratified it - it has entered into force thanks to european ratification, and we have developed cop 22 in accordance with the expectations that were on the table and even with the marrakesh action plan, which is the commitment of all parties to keep action at a significant level and to implement our policies. mr. helmer said paris was dead. well, "the dead you kill are in good health", because paris is alive and well, which is said in spanish, in spanish, and, if i saw something in marrakech it was the desire of everyone to move on. and the problem of china has been raised. in the face of uncertainty, it is clear that china and the european union must come together to maintain that permanent leadership in the fight against climate change by developing our policies. and the european union can be proud and come to these negotiations with very important assets that justify its participation in world leadership. because we have the most ambitious emission reduction target, at least 40 percent, with domestic action, not international credits. second, we are the only party that, at this point, has launched (or will launch next week) all the legislation necessary to meet its climate goals, through legislation, not through presidential decisions. and that is a differentiating factor, because, regardless of the different electoral results that may exist in the 28 member states, the policies remain constant, and that is a value that we europeans can boast of. and finally, we have international financial solidarity, the respect of developing countries. we can orchestrate large coalitions with developing countries because we are financially solidary; because we are the ones who put the most climate finance on the table, and also, in coordination with our development policies. commissioner mimica and i work together. we are the largest contributor to climate finance; we are the one who finances 50 percent of the green climate fund; we are the one who finances 90 percent of the adaptation fund, and we are respected by developing countries. it is not the work of this commissioner, it is the work of very consistent policies, which justify the european union's being able to speak out loud and seek alliances that will be complex in the future. and we will have to extend our partnerships to india, as mr eickhout has said: it is essential to have india, a country which has an impressive demography and equally impressive co2 emissions, as its demography. we'll have to make approaches to the big emitters, to free up the reduction of them. so the challenges ahead are important. mr turmes, you know that i strive to have the most ambitious package possible, and you know me well. therefore, in this endeavor we will be together. i will launch a major package and then, as mrs van brempt has said here, parliament will also have its responsibilities, starting with the european system of emission allowances, which is fundamental for the industrial sectors; then moving on to the diffuse sectors - agriculture, buildings, transport - and finally developing the technological innovation that will enable us to lead the world in energy efficiency and renewable energy. i know that i am counting on this parliament for all this. it is very pleasant to work in a policy which, at a time of division in the european union, is a policy which brings unity. there was unity in the environment council, under the slovak presidency, to launch the ratification process; there was unity in this parliament to give its consent to that ratification; there was unity in the national parliaments, as 16 european union parliaments have already ratified this process. and i wanted to say something to mrs estefanía torres martínez - who i think is not here - when she criticised the lack of ratification in the country i know: man, she should tell the whole truth. the government was in office for the whole of last year and a government in office, with the spanish constitution, cannot ratify an agreement. but the first act of the government of the country i know best, after the inauguration, was to launch the ratification process. this shows that across the european union climate change policies are united, ambitious and hopeful.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you and i thank all those honourable members who have spoken. i will not repeat what i stressed at the beginning of this debate, on behalf of the council. instead i would like to consider today’s debate because its title was to assess the outcome of marrakech. that was extremely important, and many thanks to all those who agreed that marrakech was a success for the european union. but this debate was more than a stocktaking of what happened in marrakech. for me the political message from here is to maintain the momentum for our common political commitment to continue the work because we know that what matters at the end of the day is implementation. secondly, several of you referred to the council. i dare say that, this year, the council has delivered, and i thank commissioner cañete for reminding us that this was the case. we have been working hard and i am sure i can say that the upcoming maltese and estonian presidencies will be equally committed. by the way, the slovak presidency is coming to an end, but we are still working hard and we hope that, at the meeting of the environment council in december, we will have an agreement on the ets. fourthly and lastly, i would like to thank parliament for its cooperation throughout the year, including its committed cooperation on the spot in marrakech, and in particular to thank mr la via, chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for his leadership.
in writing. i am very positive about the outcome of the recent conference of the parties in morocco. i believe that the adoption of growth models compatible with the protection of the environment is now, more than ever in the history of mankind, a top priority. the willingness of the international community to define, by 2018, a roadmap for the concrete implementation of the paris agreement is a very important sign of hope for the health and future of our planet. although there are still a number of issues to be resolved, such as the critical issues surrounding the establishment of the green climate fund, i am convinced that the work programme and the deadlines set are evidence of a renewed environmental awareness on the part of the entire international community, which should give us cause for optimism.
i shall now briefly touch on the agenda, mr president. i do not know whether you have been informed, but yesterday, during the debate in the chamber, the following offensive words were used: the president-elect of the united states was referred to as a clown. i am not telling you this for the sake of repression, because we are liberals and we do not vote against people who freely express their opinions, nor do we ask for their arrest or trial, but simply for the sake of opportunity, knowing your sensitivity to the image of parliament, so that you take the necessary measures.
in writing. ‒ i consider the proposed calendar for the 2018 parliamentary sessions to be appropriate, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ having no objection to the draft submitted, i voted today in favour of the proposed calendar for the 2018 parliamentary sessions.
in writing. ‒ i have taken note of the resolution on the calendar of sittings of the european parliament for the year 2018.
in writing. ‒ it is good to have the calendar of parliament's sittings available well in advance, so that each of us can organise ourselves as best we can to ensure maximum attendance and participation in the work both in the chamber and in our home territories.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the programme established for the work of parliament in 2018 and am honoured to be able to participate in it.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the calendar of parliamentary sessions in 2018.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the 2018 round table table table presented, as it is in line with the commitments
in writing. ‒ if the proposed canada-european union economic and trade agreement (ceta) were to enter into force, we know full well that it would have catastrophic effects in many of the member states. it is also structured in such a way that it operates outside the judicial system of the member states and gives even more power to multinational companies, which already have too much power. for these reasons, i, my colleagues from the five star movement and other members have asked the court of justice for an opinion, which is the body responsible for assessing whether the treaties of the european union are being respected. to show that agreements like ceta are illegal, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, rejected by parliament, which called for an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of ceta with the treaties. the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the eu is undoubtedly an important achievement of the commission: however, it also contains some provisions which, in my view, could create situations of interference with the prerogative of the community institutions and governments to legislate on such central issues as the protection of health or the environment. the main concerns relate to sections d and f of chapter 8 of the agreement, which deal with investment protection and the settlement of investment disputes between investors and states. the establishment of supranational private courts for the arbitration of conflicts between states and multinational companies is, in my view, a particularly sensitive subject which would deserve to be examined by the court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the court of justice to rule on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). this europe is concluding an agreement with canada which will be against the economies of our territories, against our agriculture, against a venetian and italian market model based on the quality of our excellences which is in danger of being wiped out by the canadian multinationals who want to appropriate our know-how. ceta must be stopped now, before it destroys our economy and our agri-food sector, with the consequent loss of thousands of jobs in our regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because there is no need to seek an opinion from the court of justice on the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the eu and canada if the one issued by the legal service of the parliament already provide enough safety and the confirmation that the ceta is not against european law.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to seek the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the canada-eu comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) with the treaties. there are many concerns about ceta: the negotiations have been conducted in complete secrecy and the conclusions could have very negative effects on our democratic processes and risk severely affecting public services and workers' rights. unfortunately, parliament has voted by a majority against accepting the request. if it had been accepted, the court could have ruled on issues related to the investment court system (ics), which will guarantee foreign investors the possibility of suing states if they issue regulations or regulations that jeopardise their business expectations. in fact, the establishment of supranational private courts to arbitrate conflicts between states and multinationals seems to be in contradiction with the eu treaties because it essentially denies national sovereignty and bypasses ordinary justice. i find it paradoxical that, in the face of all these doubts about its legitimacy, there is a desire to push for the immediate implementation of ceta.
in writing. ‒ requiring the compatibility of a treaty concluded by the eu with a third country is one of parliament's prerogatives. in particular, the eu-canada agreement raises a number of issues of primary importance to european citizens, which we have repeatedly denounced. i therefore voted in favour of the request for an opinion to the court of justice without the slightest hesitation.
in writing. ‒ of the many dissatisfactions that an agreement of the size of ceta can arouse, the legal one is certainly not to be counted. the confirmation of this assumption is not only found in the already complete and exhaustive legal verification completed on 29 february, but also in the absence of incompatibility with the treaties of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union and especially with the aforementioned articles 49, 54, 56 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in fact, ceta cannot be regarded as contrary to the freedom of establishment provided for in article 49, which facilitates access to and pursuit of selfemployed activities. it is also established that the status of companies incorporated under the laws of a member state and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business in the eu is equivalent to that of natural persons having european citizenship. similarly, there is nothing contrary to the principle laid down in article 340 according to which the contractual liability of the union is governed by the law applicable to the contract in question. in line with this, i reject the proposal and hope that where ceta may present gaps or well-founded doubts, there will be effective intervention.
in writing. ‒ the ceta agreement between canada and the european union is illegal, as it threatens the establishment of a supranational court at the expense of the judicial system of the various member states, benefiting multinationals. we have asked the european court of justice for an opinion on this, so that the agreement can be declared illegal, but our proposal was rejected in the parliamentary vote. in any case, i have voted against the ceta agreement, and it is clearly negative.
in writing. ‒ ceta is an agreement that would have a huge impact on the lives of european citizens. public services would be provided at all times at the "highest level of liberalization" in accordance with the logic of competitiveness, the market and the pursuit of profit by companies. the interests of the citizens, the quality of the services themselves and the benefits to society would be marginal or non-existent. more than 3 million european citizens took action last year with a european citizens' initiative to stop ttip and ceta and it is the duty of the european parliament to give them a voice, taking due account of their concerns and their will. transparency, democracy, public services and the environment are as important as trade. the latter cannot prevail at the expense of protecting the rights and health of over half a billion europeans. for this reason and in view of the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of ceta with the european treaties, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted unanimously against the resolution on the request for an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union (ceta). i consider this resolution to be purely instrumental, presented with the sole aim of delaying the ratification of the ceta agreement by the european parliament and thus delaying its provisional application. the request in question relates in particular to the compatibility of the provisions on investment dispute settlement or the new ics mechanism, which belgium has already officially stated that it wishes to verify before the final entry into force of the agreement. i would also like to point out that the provisions in question have been clearly excluded from provisional application and that the council and the commission have reaffirmed their commitment to continue the technical work to improve the ics system in the direction requested by parliament. we need more clarity and transparency in trade policy and the decision-making processes that go with it, especially in the face of an increasingly interested and attentive public. in this regard, it will be necessary to reinvigorate the role of the european parliament as the guarantor of democratic elections and to work towards building an increasingly regulated, inclusive and equitable globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution calling for the involvement of the court of justice to verify the compatibility with the treaties of the text of the eu-canada trade agreement (ceta).
in writing. ‒ the eu-canada ceta negotiations started in may 2009 and concluded in september 2014. the legal review of the treaty was completed in 2016 with a favourable verdict from parliament's legal services. we recall in particular how this parliament, on the initiative of the socialist and democratic group in particular, called for and obtained the abolition of the controversial isds system, replaced by a model of international court to settle disputes between investors and states, providing in particular for facilitation measures for smes, to make the system more accessible. ceta also recognizes geographical indications to protect consumers and typical foods from our country, as well as the agreements on standards of the international labour organization. this agreement is - as many have said - a progressive trade agreement. nevertheless, citizens have expressed concerns about certain aspects, and i believe that the amendments that have been made have taken this into account. the demand for this resolution, which i did not support, would have further slowed down a process which will provide europe, smes and workers with many opportunities for growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against my colleagues' proposal because i consider that, since the agreement between the european union and canada is incompatible under article 19 teu and under articles 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 tfeu, it seems pointless to seek an opinion from the court of justice. i do not think that an agreement can be concluded which is contrary to two primary sources of community law, namely the teu and the tfeu. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ a majority in the european parliament has rejected an attempt to seek the opinion of the european court of justice on ceta, the treaty with canada. there are serious doubts about its compatibility with european law, especially since it contains the ics clause which allows investors to turn to private courts to sue the state in the event of public measures contrary to their interests. this is why 89 meps from various parties including all of us from m5s have asked to seek the opinion of the european court of justice: it was only a question of checking the legality of the treaty outside the pro- and anti-positions. but the power houses are afraid that ceta will be analyzed: the more we talk about it, the more it is revealed that it contains a torpedo aimed against the precautionary principle, it weakens food security, it is killing our agriculture, it sets very wide margins for private intervention in services such as water, education and health, it sets the criteria for the issuing of permits and licences for all economic activities.
in writing. i strongly supported the request to refer the matter to the court of justice to rule on the compatibility of ceta with eu law. we need to be clear about this, because we believe that this agreement undermines the uniformity of european law and jeopardises the protection of the fundamental rights of european citizens. ceta creates a supranational para-judicial tribunal which would allow multinational companies to sue states outside the normal court system for damages for any harm suffered as a result of laws and regulations protecting citizens, health and the environment. how can this legal monster be compatible with the rights and values enshrined in the treaties? we would have liked to have heard the final opinion on this matter from the european courts. unfortunately, by 419 votes to 258, parliament rejected this request and therefore refused to open the debate. they are probably afraid that the european courts will give us the answer and not the multinationals.
in writing. ceta, the free trade agreement between europe and canada, is illegal because it creates a supranational court for the use and consumption of multinational companies, which will be able to sue states outside the normal judicial system. we of the five star movement have lodged an appeal with the european court of justice for a final opinion: we want to know whether ceta is compatible with the european treaties. the court of justice of the european union is the only body which ensures that the treaties establishing the european union are observed and enforced. ceta undermines the uniformity of european law and with it the rights of citizens. the supranational court created by ceta could be called upon to interpret eu law. and how will a court designed to defend the rights of multinational corporations deal with the rights of citizens? all this without the european court of justice, the body responsible for interpreting eu law, having any say in the matter. we must have the courage to defend the rights of european citizens in a strong way, and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a very serious and important problem today and must be addressed as such. thousands of people die or fall ill every year as a result of pollution, not to mention the health costs, estimated at 1.4 trillion euros a year in europe. the directive under review sets specific national reduction targets for all member states, with the aim of reducing pollution through specific control programmes. i think that this report, although it contains important points, does not go far enough into the subject, and i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a major public health concern. poor air quality has caused 400 000 premature deaths, many sick leave and high health care costs. it also led to a significant drop in productivity, crop losses and damage to buildings. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. i voted in favour of the girling report because i share the need to set stricter limits on emissions of pollutants. the text adopted sets out new national commitments to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds other than methane (vocs), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter). the european union must continue its efforts to improve air quality and must do so by continuing to improve the control legislation which has proved ineffective in the vw case and in the discrepancy between the real driving emission values and the nox emissions in the euro 6 diesel car test.
in writing. ‒ while i am presenting some steps that can be shared, i believe that our government could have negotiated more favourable terms for our companies during the negotiation phase. i am convinced that it would have been more appropriate to proceed with the 'second reading' which would have allowed for a more thorough and transparent assessment of the impact of the different proposals on the table in order to achieve a wider consensus among member states. for these reasons i could not support this text fully and i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the agreement we have approved today is a deal for the downside and that is why i voted against it. in the interinstitutional negotiations the council set the conditions and parliament gave in on all the main points. the new text on emission limits has weakened reduction targets for pollutants, the 2025 targets are not binding and in certain circumstances there is some flexibility for compliance with the limits. air pollution remains the main environmental risk factor for human health, lowers the quality of life and is the cause of an estimated 467 000 premature deaths a year in europe: i should have done more!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants because i strongly believe the eu institutions should review and update their ceilings to emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds and ammonia in order to better address the air pollution in the union.
in writing. ‒ air pollution, neglected for years by policy, is now a strategic priority as a major public health concern. poor air quality causes premature death, sickness absence from work, high health care costs, lost productivity, reduced crop yields and damage to buildings. in europe, the total external health costs to society from air pollution are estimated to be between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. in addition, a growing body of evidence is available that the deposition of nitrogen in the atmosphere causes changes in the natural environment, including reduced diversity of soil vegetation, reduced plant growth and nutrient imbalances due to eutrophication and acidification. despite significant improvements, many member states are still far from the agreed standards for reducing pollutant emissions. the new 2030 targets contained in the proposal under discussion aim to achieve approximately 70% of the reductions recommended by the who parameters: the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction, and we must not take a step backwards.
in writing. ‒ air pollution kills around 400 000 people in the european union every year and costs the health systems of the member states an estimated €300-900 billion annually. in order to reduce the impact of air pollution on public health, i thought i would vote in favour of updating the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain pollutants. i believe that each member state, within its means, must reduce its emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds other than methane in order to protect the environment and the well-being of its citizens. to this end, member states should transmit to the commission every two years national pollution control programmes for all economic sectors with particular reference to industrial activities and transport. i welcome the fact that the updating of the directive commits the member states to also assess the impacts of air pollution on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. finally, i am pleased that the directive now includes specific provisions to protect vulnerable groups, and in particular children (for example, the prohibition of the consumption of solid fuels in residential areas).
in writing. ‒ over the past 20 years, the union has made considerable progress in air quality and anthropogenic atmospheric emissions, in particular through the adoption of specific policies. i therefore welcome the setting of maximum limits for some of the most harmful gases in line with the long-term objectives of an atmosphere free from adverse effects on health and the environment. the approved measure aims to reduce levels and deposits of acidifying and eutrophicating air pollutants and other pollutants, including ozone. in addition, the urgency of synergies between the future directive and the european climate and energy programmes is confirmed. the request to member states to minimise their annual anthropogenic emissions in accordance with the national commitments applicable from 2020 is followed by a request to monitor and update the commission on their progress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. finally, member states must ensure that the public concerned is consulted at an early stage of the development and adoption of national pollution control programmes and at any stage of such activities prior to their actual completion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i agree with the new limits set out in the text for 2020 and 2030. clean air must become an increasingly important priority in european policies in order to protect the health of citizens in an increasingly effective and concrete way: i am convinced that the measures provided for in this directive can help to achieve this objective. the planned action will continue to reduce harmful emissions such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, volatile organic compounds and fine dust (pm 2.5). the eu needs to continue to pursue its strategy by ensuring that better and healthier air quality is achieved in the community in the medium term and by supporting member states in the short term in the process of achieving the community standards required by the relevant directives. air pollution, which has been unfortunately neglected by policy for years, must now more than ever be the subject of specific legislation, also to eliminate the possible risks to the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ although limiting air pollution is rightly a priority for europe, this report has failed to ensure a marked reduction in the air pollutants concerned, but rather made broad concessions such as the exclusion of methane from the list of pollutants to be limited. in addition, too much flexibility was found to be present, which could jeopardise the effectiveness of such emission limitations. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a cross-border issue, important for both human health and the environment, affecting all citizens of the union and requiring immediate action. today, poor air quality is causing premature death, sick leave, high health care costs, lost productivity, reduced crop yields, and damage to buildings. i believe that the proposal for a revision of directive 2001/81/ec on national emission limits can be an effective tool for achieving 70% of the technically feasible maximum reductions in health effects as set by the who. in the last decade, air quality has been neglected, and this has led to divergent and inconsistent policies, which must be overcome. to this end, i welcome the provision of measures for the early detection of problems in cases where member states are likely to fail to meet their obligations, in order to enable them to take corrective action.
in writing. ‒ according to data recently published in a report by the european environment agency, between 2000 and 2014, fine dust caused the death of more than 430 000 people in europe each year, 66 000 in our country alone. a disturbing and dramatic photograph, confirming how smog and poor air quality remain the number one problem in europe for public health and the environment around us. with the adoption of the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, which updates and amends the previous directive 2003/35/ec, the european institutions are now taking a first step towards reducing the limits of the most important pollutants by setting significant targets to be achieved by 2030. the premature deaths, together with the total costs of air pollution - estimated at over eur 940 billion a year across europe - are an unacceptable burden which merits a more responsible response and even more ambitious efforts not only by the european union but above all by the member states, which will be called upon to implement this directive.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a public health concern. this is a commitment that the european commission has been pursuing since 2013 with the clean air package aimed at improving air quality by 2030. i am in favour of early detection of environmental problems and corrective action. i also stress the need for the commission to play a supervisory role and to assist the member states in key aspects of their national programmes. for these reasons i thought it appropriate to vote for stricter eu legislation on environmental matters.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is the main environmental risk factor not only for human health but also for animal and plant biodiversity. its negative impact on ecosystems, buildings, materials and the climate causes incalculable damage. it is responsible for an excessive number of premature deaths, illnesses and hospitalizations across the european continent. the who and the oecd estimate that the economic cost of the health impact of air pollution in europe is about eur 1.4 trillion. the deterioration of air quality will not be contained by unrealistic targets, and we cannot but welcome regulations which end up protecting the business of a few at the expense of the protection of the environment and health.
in writing. ‒ air pollution, which has been neglected for years by national and european policy, must be included among the strategic priorities on the eu agenda, as it is a major public health concern. i voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the national emission limits for certain air pollutants, as it concerns national commitments to reduce emissions, flexibility and the maintenance of methane. in particular, i think it is important that the directive will give more flexibility to member states to achieve the 2030 targets, while maintaining a programme for transparency in each country's commitment.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because it would have been more appropriate to proceed with the second reading to assess in a more thorough and transparent way the impact of the different proposals on the table in order to achieve a wider consensus among member states.
in writing. ‒ this is an important report on ensuring our air quality and on action needed to be taken so that there are no significant negative impacts on and risks to human health and the environment. i support the report in establishing emission reduction commitments for the member states in atmospheric emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvoc), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (pm 2.5 ). for this directive to be successful and to ensure air quality and emission levels in the eu, the member states should set up and implement national control programmes. to achieve this it is important that the member states can access eu funds for implementation of this directive and that there is an easy access for member states to exchange best practises and experiences in reducing emissions and ensuring air-quality. lastly i support the flexibility for member states that is included in this directive, it is important that member states are not forced to take a certain action to ensure air quality and emissions levels as the most efficient way for one member state to deal with these issue might not hold true for another.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for the amendment of the emissions ceiling directive, and i think it is important to set new high standards to further limit certain harmful substances such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen, particulate matter and ammonia. i want to highlight the important improvement for public health: it is estimated that by 2030 the number of deaths caused by toxic air could be halved. the commission will therefore be required to verify that governments are keeping their commitments to drastically reduce emissions to the required standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec because it is an important vote that unlocks a file that has been closed for almost three years and gives important answers to european citizens. the quality of the air we breathe is not just an environmental issue, but a serious health emergency, with almost 90% of eu citizens living in polluted places and some 400 000 premature deaths a year linked to it. if we want to improve the quality of life of our citizens, especially in large urban areas, then ambitious reform with strong objectives is needed. i personally welcome the effort made by parliament, and by the s&d group in particular, to push for binding targets by 2025. the agreement with the council, however, meets the needs of the governments and gives us more flexible and open legislation, with non-binding objectives, the exclusion of certain sectors and a series of flexibility clauses. the agreement is still an important step forward, and its implementation and enforcement will now have to be carefully scrutinised by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted positively for the report on reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. it is clear that air quality needs support and requires of immediate action because, just like the report points out, air is ‘a significant trans-boundary human health and environmental issue that profoundly affects all eu citizens.’ air pollution has increased to worrying levels for the health and we can no longer let this keep on taking place. it is important to acknowledge the existing air-related health issues by introducing new legislation and policy that can lead to potential change even when the situation is challenging.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is important to commit ourselves, at national level, to further reducing air pollution emissions from 2020 to 2030. the aim of this directive is to improve human health on the one hand and to protect the environment on the other. these national programmes to control air pollution would be applicable from the agricultural sector to the industrial sector, so anyone could benefit. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ policy-making based on concrete elements must be the cornerstone of eu legislation. in the case of air quality, this is a matter of extreme importance for both human health and the environment, which affects all citizens of the union and requires immediate action at supranational level. air pollution, which has been neglected by policy for years, is now a priority. it is essential that the commission should play a supervisory and political role in this respect. i believe that it is of paramount importance to ensure an adequate level of air quality as a public good. i believe that this requires the identification of innovative ways of financing emission reductions. i think this directive is going in the right direction and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ air pollution causes over 400 000 premature deaths in the european union each year, making it the main environmental risk factor for human health. pollution from transport, heating, industry and agriculture, for example, also imposes high external costs due to lost working days, health costs, crop yield losses and damage to buildings, totalling between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal to update the directive setting national emission limits for air pollutants, hoping that the new legislation will help to reduce premature deaths and improve air quality.
in writing. ‒ the level of air pollutants in the air has not yet fallen below levels necessary to protect human health and the environment. i believe that further efforts are needed to reduce the more than 460,000 premature deaths caused each year by fine dust, as well as the 80,000 caused by nitrogen dioxide emissions. i believe that the reduction in pollutant emissions each year, while recognising the possible negative economic effects that would be experienced by certain sectors, is an important stimulus to research in green technologies. the creation of countless jobs in this sector would send a positive signal from brussels, demonstrating concretely the commitment that the european union has made to protecting its citizens, also in the face of new challenges in terms of economic growth. the public health costs, now substantial due to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, will also be greatly reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. the development of policies on the basis of concrete elements must be the cornerstone of european union legislation. in the case of air quality, the answer is clear: this is a major and cross-border issue for both human health and the environment that affects all citizens of the union and requires immediate action. the commission proposal sets new emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and ammonia for 2020 and 2030: the new 2030 targets aim to achieve 70% of the maximum technically feasible reductions in health effects as set by the who. the commission has set the limits for individual member states on the basis of an assessment of the areas where the most cost-effective measures can be implemented. the commission text also requires member states to adopt national air pollution control programmes to be updated every two years.
in writing. ‒ the following motion for a resolution concerns the completion of basel iii, a set of reform proposals concerning banking regulation. european banks are experiencing a very critical period, caused mainly by inadequate and sometimes absent financial regulation that began in the last decades of the last century. i believe that basel iii is far from perfect or even adequate for the conditions in which the present banking system operates. however, to vote against would be to promote the deregulation mentioned earlier. these are the main reasons why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis has led g20 leaders to agree on a comprehensive reform agenda to strengthen the regulatory standards to which international banks are subject, a project in which the basel committee is playing a central role in developing minimum standards for prudential requirements applicable to large banks operating internationally. the motion for a resolution adopted today by parliament, which i support, reflects on the central role played by banks in the eu and sets out to define some of the key elements for a successful completion of the basel iii regulatory framework. the basel committee should commit itself to promoting quality standards, transparency and consistency in the area of capitalisation and risk coverage. the primary objective must be to ensure real support to the real economy by reducing systemic risk and by defining an approach that mitigates differences between banking models and jurisdictions by establishing risk-based regulatory mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ 'basel 3' is a comprehensive set of reform measures, prepared by the basel committee on banking supervision, to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector. although the objectives of this text are shared, i think it is unacceptable that it does not contain any critical passage on the behaviour of certain european banks which could have been avoided by an effective supervisory system. i am convinced that the right references to the role of the banking system in helping households and smes are only a rhetorical exercise given the state of crisis in the assets of many institutions, which are also crushed by the private debt generated by the eu monetary policy. for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the 2008 economic and financial crisis, the basel committee on banking supervision was established with the aim of strengthening the capacity of banks to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stresses, so as to reduce the risk of contagion from the financial sector to the real economy. in the eu, banks play a major role in financing the economy. in this resolution, which i support, the european parliament stresses the need for internationally agreed minimum standards to avoid fragmentation of legislation on asset regulation. the need is to ensure that the basel iii agreement meets quality, transparency and consistency standards in terms of capitalisation and risk coverage, and to ensure that the new rules promote and not slow down the moderate growth that the eu is experiencing in the post-crisis period. parliament also stressed the importance of reforms based on a global level playing field, so that differences between countries and banking models were reduced rather than increased.
in writing. ‒ the basel accords are guidelines on bank capital requirements drawn up by the basel committee, which is made up of the regulators of the main so-called 'first world' countries, with the aim of pursuing international monetary and financial stability. the most recent of the three basel agreements, which entered into force six years ago, established a body, the cbvb (basel committee on banking supervision), which has presented to the international community a package of proposals aimed at improving the prudential framework for banks dealing with credit and operational risks. these proposals should be collected by the european union and reworked with the aim of improving the risk sensitivity and robustness of standardised approaches, better regulating financial flows and implementing where necessary appropriate restrictions, finalising the design and calibration of leverage with a long-term perspective and the political will to prioritise stability and the real economy over short-term financial speculation.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the basle iii agreement, on the basis of the following considerations: improved management of the bank/enterprise relationship is a priority for both the enterprise and the bank side, in order to avoid operational risks and to improve the prudential framework for banks; proper access to the capital market and practical assistance in identifying new forms of capitalisation are essential elements in ensuring the stability of the production system; the commission must be a leader in ensuring a level playing field and in calibrating the final standards.
in writing. ‒ the basel iii accord represents a robust network of reform measures for banking supervision in order to strengthen the sector's regulation, supervision and risk management, specifically, minimum capital thresholds are imposed on banks to prevent financial shocks from bringing them to their knees with disruptive consequences for the entire system. i believe that prudential regulation should be encouraged and implemented, and i therefore support this measure. the reason that drives me to act in this way more than any other is that it is in support of the real economy. basel rules are designed to stabilise the financial world and impose sound practices on its players in terms of capitalisation, risk management and liquidity, strongly conditioning their use towards the real economy and thus their conveyance to companies and citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is not undermined by the crisis. balance is everything and basel 3 requires banks to provide capital and liquidity guarantees so that financing to households and businesses is traceable and secure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as i share the proposals put forward by the basel committee on banking supervision (cbvb) to improve the prudential framework for banks facing credit and operational risks (finalization of the basel iii agreement, the so-called 'basel iv'). the objective of the proposals is to improve the risk sensitivity and robustness of the standardised approaches, to analyse further constraints on the role of internally modelled approaches in the capital framework and to finalise the design and calibration of leverage and a possible minimum level of capital, based on standardised approaches. i believe that the activity of banks which today play a key role in financing the european economy and are likely to remain the main source of financing for households and businesses, particularly smes should continue to be monitored in order to reduce any systemic risk.
in writing. ‒ the specific features of the european banking system must be safeguarded: the european union is a global economy, where the big international banks are joined by small regional and cooperative banks, the wealth of europe. it is essential to protect the diversity and heterogeneity of the european financial landscape, which also allows for risk diversification. it is particularly important to protect those banks which are familiar with the needs and problems of local artisans and small and mediumsized enterprises. the rules must therefore be proportionate to the size and risk of the bank. regulation needs to be risk-based. in particular, the same risk must be treated in a common way at the level of the overall regulation. this will ensure a reduction in regulatory arbitrage. in this respect, it is important that parliament reaffirm its legislative power in relation to a matter such as the implementation of the basle standards, which is very often accused of being decided outside democratic frameworks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. for these reasons, i think the final text is a good compromise in defence of the democratic role of parliament towards policies in defence of a commitment of the financial system to the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this important report on the work of the bcbs to finalise the basel iii framework. this is a key part of legislation to develop internationally agreed minimum standards and requirements for large, international banks. this would serve to add simplicity and comparability of the existing framework on risk-weighted capital – this could serve to address excessive variability of these assets and it would importantly mean that the same rules are applied to the same risks. extensive monitoring of the effects will be necessary in order to ensure no negative effects on the banking sector. banks play a key role in financing the european economy and they are especially important for smes – who makes up the real backbone of the european economy. in regard to smes, flexibility plays a key role in their financing needs, and we as lawmakers must keep this a relevant theme in all financial regulation. it is of crucial importance that we promote the financing of, and investments in, european smes since they are already underfunded and financing possibilities are needed to reverse the sluggish growth of the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on completing basel iii on capital requirements for financial institutions, which the ep worked on for a long time in the last parliamentary term to transpose into european law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. i strongly share the concerns about further tightening of capital requirements, because of the potential effects on the real economy at a very delicate stage for the whole european economy, whose growth signals are still weak, as stated by president draghi this week before the ep. as well as the need for european banks to be well capitalised in order to be able to support the real economy and smes while reducing risks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that a well-established and well-capitalised system is the fundamental prerequisite for safeguarding financial security, ensuring the proper provision of credit to the real economy and supporting economic growth. the g20 also agreed to develop a reform agenda to protect regulatory standards, and the cbvb jointly developed international standards to establish prudential requirements for international banks. however, as these prudential requirements may vary in their application depending on the banking activity, the cbvb is considering further changes to the prudential regime for banks. the cbvb will, however, have to carefully assess the impact of the reforms on countries and banking models. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the basel committee on banking supervision (cvbv) has proposed stricter requirements on bank capital, as required by the revision of the rules contained in the basel iii agreement. it is important that such measures allow banks to continue to play their key role as financiers of the european economy, without, for example, compromising their ability to provide loans. in the hope that the relevant bodies, such as the commission and the european central bank, will provide parliament with accurate and transparent updates and assessments of the work being done by the cbvb, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. a motion on the finalisation of basel iii and the future basel 4 on capital requirements for banks was voted during the last plenary session. there are points of agreement in the motion, but also some important criticisms. we do not think, for example, that the call for the use of the internal method, which allows banks to calculate their capital requirements through internal models, instead of the standardised method, is sustainable, since the use of this method has generated distortions and opened the way to real abuses by the big banks. we also do not support the introduction of a risk-based approach to government securities, which would have the effect of discouraging investment in the securities of countries judged by the markets to be more risky, thus harming countries such as italy. we do, however, share some of the principles that are very clearly outlined in the motion, including the need for regulation not to further restrict the lending capacity of banks to the real economy and the importance of ensuring a level playing field in the market between operators. for these reasons we have abstained from voting in the house.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the completion of basel iii. this resolution is to be considered as balanced, as it should respect the principle of not significantly increasing the overall capital requirements, while at the same time strengthening the overall financial position of european banks. banks are a key component of the effective functioning of our economy; the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid the bailouts that occurred during the crisis. the work being done by the basel committee should be able to mitigate differences between european banking jurisdictions and models.
in writing. ‒ the following report highlights how the security situation in europe has reached a level considered critical, especially after the recent terrorist attacks by isis. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. although there are some rather interesting issues, there is a complete lack of an assessment of the negative impact that what has been said above could have on some member states, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the major changes in the global landscape in recent years make it increasingly necessary to reflect on europe's ability to meet the enormous challenges of our time, which are not only presented in conventional forms but increasingly in the form of hybrid threats involving state and non-state actors. the paşcu report, which i supported with my vote today, strongly underlines the need for a substantial revision of the csdp in order to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the management of international crises and to the affirmation of the union's strategic autonomy. a white paper on european defence and security is needed to chart the way for a strengthening of the continent's defence industry and at the same time to foreshadow the lines of action in the international arena. the core of the new csdp must, however, be the creation of a genuine autonomous defence capability for the eu to protect its citizens and promote its values and interests, in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report, so i did not intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the current situation of deteriorating security inside and outside europe has clearly demonstrated that the union must equip itself with the tools to defend the peace and security of its citizens. this report is in line with the commitment of the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, federica mogherini, to work towards a full review of security and defence policies to deal with the structural changes in the international context. we call for the establishment of effective mechanisms that take full advantage of the potential already present in the european treaties, such as permanent structured cooperation. the call for better cooperation among the member states, which retain their prerogatives in the field of defence, is to be based on a sound principle of collective defence and on efficient financing to promote the strategic autonomy of the european union. this means strengthening its capabilities and establishing itself on the international scene as a reliable partner, capable of cooperating in full complementarity with the international institutions active in this field, in the first place nato, to meet the security needs of the european union and those of its neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i think the union should use its foreign policy tools more efficiently by bearing in mind that the european security environment has deteriorated considerably. indeed, more and better coordination between member states is needed in order to tackle the current challenges. as a matter of fact, this resolution provided the base for further developments of the eu foreign policy tools towards a revised and more robust csdp.
in writing. ‒ no country can tackle security challenges on its own: today, more than ever, united action is needed to ensure the defence of europe's borders and internal security. it is necessary to radically revise the framework of the common security policy adopted so far, to strengthen it and to begin to act in the perspective of federal integration of the intelligence services, the armed forces and border control structures, as is being done positively for the new european union coast guard. the development of a stronger defence industry cannot be left in the background, along with the necessary political and legal decisions to be taken, in order to strengthen the union's strategic autonomy and technological independence. strengthening the eu's status as a guarantor of security in europe's neighbourhood requires appropriate and sufficient capabilities, as well as an internationally competitive, efficient and transparent defence industry that ensures a sustainable supply chain. the european defence sector is currently characterised by fragmentation and duplication, which must be gradually eliminated through a process that provides incentives and rewards to all national actors and that takes into account the long-term prospects of an integrated defence market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a necessary and thorough revision of the common security and defence policy (csdp). citizens need to see and feel a greater commitment on the part of the european union on this issue. the fight against terrorist propaganda must be fought with determination through more efficient csdp operations. a more unified foreign policy would make a significant contribution to the reduction of the fighting in iraq and syria. the report stresses the need for strong support from member states with the crucial cooperation of national parliaments in order to ensure the swift implementation of the priorities of the european union's foreign and security policy (eugs). sharing the same strategic interests with nato is a great opportunity for the union, but we must also work towards stronger and closer cooperation with other institutional partners such as the osce, as well as with bilateral strategic partners.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the common security and defence policy contains several passages which i consider problematic. these include the request to member states to allocate 2% of gdp to defence, as envisaged at the wales and warsaw nato meetings; a strengthened partnership with nato; the establishment of a european civilian/military headquarters for csdp missions and operations; the call for the eu to support the member states participating in the coalition against isis by creating an ad hoc csdp mission; the request to amend the peace and stability instrument to allow the eu to equip military actors in partner countries; the revision of the mechanisms for financing european battalions and military operations. i am concerned about some of the proposals mentioned above and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ there is not a day that passes without the media forcing our eyes to observe the atrocities committed by isis, or communicating to us in an apocalyptic way an unstable and complex international picture, as well as dangerous and unpredictable. we are certainly a fortunate generation because, thanks in part to the european union, we have not experienced the horrors of war at close quarters, so that this condition can remain and the vote in favour of the report can be extended. in an increasingly interconnected eu, the response to threats remains uncoordinated and fragmented, thus preventing efficiency and decisive readiness. in order to manage critical cases and give the eu strategic autonomy, it is essential that member states are involved from the outset for a variety of reasons, ranging from avoiding future deadlocks to the practical benefits of pooling european defence capabilities. the aim is to establish permanent structured cooperation and to draw up a white paper on defence. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and the peace process is a very important part of the process. it is also clear that the european defence sector is characterised by fragmentation and duplication, which undermine its strategic autonomy and technological independence.
in writing. ‒ this report is linked to the report on the creation of a european defence union. the commission is therefore also in favour of a european military build-up to respond to terrorist attacks by isis in the first place. the report talks about investing 2% of each member state's gdp in defence, then a strengthened partnership with nato, and it raises the possibility of the european union equipping military actors in partner countries. i therefore vote against this.
in writing. ‒ the eu is facing a series of regional crises and increasingly interconnected and complex challenges, not least islamist terrorism. european security is in danger because of uncoordinated and fragmented action among the member states. i believe that the eu should be able to intervene in crisis management, from prevention to resolution, not only through dialogue and cooperation with third countries in the region, but above all through greater cooperation and interoperability between member states. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the full involvement of the member states in the process of reviewing the common security and defence policy. the eu should encourage member states to meet nato's targets requiring a minimum level of defence spending of 2% of gdp, in order to enhance the complementarity of eu-nato capabilities in terms of collective defence and efficient financing. the eu's commitment should follow a roadmap defined in the form of a security and defence implementation plan and white paper, in line with the priorities identified in the global strategy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it is too unrealistic and biased.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report of the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy), because i am firmly convinced that a revision of the csdp is necessary to make a substantial contribution to the security policies of the member states of the european union. i believe that these actions play an indispensable role in the prevention, management and resolution of international crises and constitute a basis on which to build a common plan of action for the defence of european citizens. i would like to encourage all the european institutions, through my vote in this chamber, to launch a policy of cooperation between the member states so that they can manage the control and defence of their territories as a whole with full autonomy. i believe that no country can stand alone against modern security threats and i am therefore extremely convinced of the usefulness of cooperation between all the forces involved. i am sure that by substantially amending the csdp, we can play a full part in maintaining security in europe in full respect of the treaties and recognized human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the european cooperation component of the csdp to be strengthened, in close cooperation and with shared objectives with nato, in order to better define, in this phase of uncertainty about the future of the union, whether, as europeans, we believe that greater autonomy and capacity for action in this area is needed in the coming years. foreign and defence policy are different but closely related: i voted in favour of this report also because i believe that a step forward in dialogue and interdependence in the field of defence and security can increase mutual trust and continue the steps already taken in building an effective external projection of the european union. the complexity of today's security and defence problems demands this. it requires a multidisciplinary approach, as i have just said, but it is not enough. from a high level, the size and nature of the challenges to be faced will exceed, if not already exceed, the capacity of individual nations to deal with them independently. on the other hand, the complexity and cost of the operational capabilities and technologies required far exceed the ability of individual states to intervene effectively in domestic and international scenarios, making cooperation an essential requirement for the future of the common defence and security policy.
in writing. the common security and defence policy (csdp) is one of the most important parts of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), as it contains an obligation among all member states to act in concert when necessary. the member states are increasingly experiencing a state of insecurity and are reacting in an uncoordinated and fragmented way. a substantial review of this policy will therefore enable the eu to coordinate its efforts to contribute to the security of its citizens. europe is unfortunately increasingly vulnerable to the crises and attacks it has been subjected to in recent months, and it continues to be a possible target today, despite the prevention and intelligence efforts made by the member states, which do not act in a coordinated manner. we must therefore find concrete solutions, and i believe that voting in favour of the report can help us to do so, in order to give a strong support to the idea of a genuinely political europe, based on a common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the report needs great support in order to reduce the incoordination that is fragmenting the eu and preventing it from effectively tackling hybrid threats. it is important to prioritise securing a stable and safe european environment for citizens, especially after the rise of radical islamic organisations targeting europe ‘on an unprecedented scale.’ in addition, there is a need to reiterate that maximum cooperation and communication among member states is crucial in these times of countering terrorism. finally, yet importantly, the report stands out as it calls for a more unified and effective european foreign and security policy that shows signs of contributing to the reduction of armed clashes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the citizens of the european union must be guaranteed the highest level of security, and this can only be achieved by an effective review of the csdp. this improvement will have to be developed through cooperation between member states and nato. but at the same time, i believe that a civil and peaceful approach to conflict resolution must be adopted, because human rights must always be respected. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the international context is increasingly unstable and complex. europe is facing increasingly unpredictable threats from different geographical areas and from both state and non-state actors, which no member state can address on its own. a substantial and thorough revision of the common security and defence policy is therefore essential if the european union is to have a real capacity to intervene. i therefore share the call for a white paper on security and defence, which would indicate to the council the most appropriate strategy for the implementation of a genuine common policy, which would meet the expectations of parliament and the citizens. i commend the commitment shown by the high representative federica mogherini in implementing the european defence action plan and i hope that parliament and all the other institutions will continue to support her efforts in this regard. a more united and stronger europe would also strengthen the role of nato, with which it shares the same strategic interests, and would be able to take complementary action in areas such as peacekeeping and conflict prevention. the criticisms of those who see contradictions between the sdc and nato are therefore completely misplaced.
in writing. ‒ the development of a stronger defence industry would certainly strengthen the union's strategic autonomy and technological independence. in this regard, i consider it appropriate to underline the need to further deepen cooperation on cyber defence and to ensure the full cyber resilience of csdp missions. threats in the european context are both conventional and hybrid in nature, attributable to both state and non-state actors. the security of the eu member states is closely interconnected. in this context, the lack of effective coordination is one of the weaknesses of the union's external action. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of a common security and defence policy. i believe that the european security environment has significantly deteriorated, becoming more unstable, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. a more unified and effective european foreign and security policy is therefore needed, which can make a significant contribution to maintaining a situation of stability and peace.
in writing. ‒ the report presents some measures to be taken to counter information campaigns with the european union. however, there are some very problematic elements, for example, they are identified as actors implementing propaganda to discredit the european union, russia and isis. i think it is inconceivable to equate a partner country of the european union with a terrorist organisation which has repeatedly attacked europe with extremely violent actions. the commission is also proposing that media from neighbouring third countries be financed. i think that the measures proposed in the report are not clear and in some cases not adequate, so i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european union has recently been facing systematic pressure from disinformation and propaganda campaigns aimed at undermining the basic concept of objective information within the union. i have decided to abstain on the fotyga report because, while i believe it is essential to strengthen eu strategic communication, i do not think it is appropriate to equate measures to be taken against state actors, such as russia, with those to be taken against terrorist organisations such as daesh. this is an approach that i do not think is appropriate, although i share the need to invest in coordinated training and awareness raising actions involving online and local media. we need a different perspective, one which encourages cooperation between the community institutions and the member states and also relies on cooperation between nato and the eu, but which does not put different situations on the same level.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is not balanced and acceptable, so i did not intend to support it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the resolution on eu strategic communication to counteract ant-eu propaganda by third parties because i do not believe that this approach to communication can work efficiently in europe. in fact, i think that eu communication campaigns are more important than campaigns contesting anti-european propaganda. we should focus on the former instead of defending ourselves from the latter.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a great entity capable of promoting democracy and prosperity not only among its citizens but also in the regions around it. it is a space of freedom which is often seen as an example for peoples embarking on the path of integration and respect for the rule of law, but it is also seen as a threat by those who see respect for freedom of thought, speech and religion as a limitation of their power. authoritarian and violent realities still surround europe: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. these realities are implementing a tight propaganda to mystify the work of the eu and to strengthen those who work to disintegrate it. we must be aware that a weaker europe means a strengthening of authoritarian regimes at our borders, a weaker internal democracy and an impoverishment of the population. we must work to change europe, to improve it, not to destroy it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strategic communication by the european union to counter propaganda against it by third parties because this europe appears to be under attack from outside but also from within with a propaganda hostile to it that comes in various forms and uses various instruments with the aim of distorting the truth, sowing doubt, discrediting the eu institutions themselves in the eyes of the citizens. i voted in favour of the report because it is precisely at this time when europe is in trouble that we must work to improve, not to close, by reducing economic disparities, working on content, strengthening the affinities between peoples. because, as spinelli, rossi and colorni imagined, the union of nations must continue to provide a solid barrier against war, prejudice, violations of human rights, isolation, racism, ignorance and provincialism.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to analyse and counter what is described as a 'systematic pressure' of information, disinformation, misinformation and propaganda campaigns by third parties aimed at discrediting the european union. the report focuses on two specific actors: russia and isis. i think it is unacceptable to put on the same level, or even to deal with in the same report, two very different situations in which the actors are respectively a sovereign state which is an important partner of the eu and the member states and a terrorist organisation which has been blemished by some of the most serious attacks and acts of violence ever perpetrated. in this way, the necessary dialogue is superimposed on an undisputed player on the international scene, namely islamic terrorism, which is spreading terror in syria, northern iraq and europe. the delegation from the five star movement and i voted against this report because, instead of promoting dialogue and stability, it raises walls and distrust.
in writing. - i vote against. the report refers to propaganda by isis/daesh and al-qaeda against europe, but is mainly an anti-russia report and focuses on the means the eu uses to support its own strategic propaganda campaigns against russia. the daesh/russia parallel also seems absurd.
in writing. the european union symbolises and pursues the ideals of democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to freedom of expression. these principles may legitimately give rise to misunderstandings by those who have not understood them or fought for them, but often their content is deliberately misrepresented, giving rise to anti-eu (mis) information and propaganda. however, today, predominantly non-state actors are waging campaigns of discredit and hatred against us. in fact, today's wars are fought not with weapons but with instruments such as financial speculation and discredit, as has unfortunately also been shown to the detriment of italy. the role of the fourth power has an extraordinary responsibility and i therefore vote in favour of the report, as i believe that defensive measures must be taken against the hate campaigns against the union. i believe it is a priority to offer decisive cooperation with social media service providers in the it field to curb hate speech and disinformation. at the same time, the socio-demographic reasons for radicalisation need to be investigated and multidimensional institutional tools need to be developed to link academic research, prison administration, police, justice, social services and education.
in writing. ‒ european citizens are exposed to disinformation and propaganda campaigns by third countries and non-state actors that undermine the concept of objective reporting or ethical journalism, making information biased or a mere tool of political power. two clear examples are both the propaganda war and the russian media intrusion into the countries of the eastern neighbourhood, and the communication and direct propaganda strategies deployed by isis/daesh, al-qaeda through social media. i voted in favour of this resolution because it brings to the european attention, and not only, a sensitive but underestimated issue which has a major impact on eu citizens, particularly the younger generation. the resolution also suggests measures to counter propaganda. i believe that the strategic communication plan in the joint framework to counter hybrid threats is effective and i support further efforts towards greater coordination between member states, nato, the european endowment for democracy, the osce and the eu institutions. another useful tool is the two weekly newsletters of the eu strategic communication task force that each member state could make available to its citizens to raise public awareness of the propaganda methods used by third parties.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report which puts a state like russia on the same level of threat as daesh and recognises european propaganda as the only possible one.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on eu strategic communication to counter propaganda against it by third parties because, despite being firmly convinced that it is essential to protect european citizens from attacks of media disinformation from third countries and non-state actors such as criminal organisations, in the specific case the resolution risks a comparison between the kremlin's information activity and that of terrorist groups such as isis/daesh. i believe it is essential to support the commitment that the eu has made to the principles of democracy, which are also expressed in the freedom of the media, free access to information and guaranteed pluralism of information. i am firmly convinced that there is a need to counter all political propaganda in the media which distorts the truth and creates division among member states, publicly undermining the credibility of eu action, but at the same time there is a need to discern between different modus operandi as in this case.
in writing. the european union, despite the various challenges and threats it faces, has been able to uphold the founding principles of integration, unity, determination and cooperation, and is therefore a model to follow. however, among the various threats, the eu is increasingly subject to hostile propaganda aimed at spreading fear, insecurity, discrediting institutions and calling into question democratic values, the rule of law and human rights. the report therefore identifies the main actors in this propaganda, including some terrorist groups, and emphasises the need for the union to focus on communication strategies to counter the threat of disinformation promoted by such propaganda. the proposal calls for greater cooperation between member states; providing relevant resources to support its strategic propaganda campaigns and to expose and confront the isil/daesh disinformation and radicalisation war; the commission has also proposed a european strategy to counter this hostile propaganda. i therefore support the report on the european union's strategic communication to counter propaganda against it by third parties.
in writing. ‒ propaganda against the european union is a fact that cannot be denied and that requires an immediate reaction in terms of media counter-communication. the disinformation campaign by russia and isis against the eu and thus against european values is no longer acceptable. the european union, which is founded on the values of freedom, equality, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and access to a plurality of information, cannot accept such behaviour. the violations for which russia has claimed responsibility, by annexing crimea and waging a hybrid war in donbass, as well as the kremlin's continuing interference in the european media, have strained relations with the union. on the other hand, the information and communication warfare technologies that isis continuously uses to justify its actions and to recruit young europeans pose a real threat to the sovereignty of the member states and the integrity of europe. for these reasons i voted in favour of this important resolution, which defines the risks of this information war which brings with it threats to both the external and internal stability of the union.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on my colleagues' proposal because i believe that, at the present stage of events, we are witnessing a considerable increase in the number of hazards that can affect and harm the citizens of the european union, and therefore it would be appropriate to keep the public constantly updated by means of a continuous exchange of information between member states. but at the same time i think it is wrong to see a conspiracy against the european union in everything around us, and indeed the member states should cooperate with each other by giving their citizens security and not by alarming them and dragging them into a media war with non-european states. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies two main threats to propaganda from third countries: a state actor, particularly russia, and terrorist groups like daesh. the text calls for tackling radicalisation and terrorist propaganda through enhanced cooperation at member state and eu level. it is a sensible proposal and i agree with it. the problem is that the text also focuses on the fact that the eu is the victim of a pro-russian propaganda campaign carried out by the government in moscow. while i personally do not believe that russia is currently an enemy and a threat to the security of the eu, i think it is deeply wrong to point the finger at initiatives that cannot be compared in any way to the propaganda action carried out by terrorist groups. once again, some members of the european parliament have been swayed by their anti-russian prejudices. therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 'strategic communication of the european union to counter propaganda against it by third parties' because i consider it to be a clear and unjustified unilateral anti-russian motion. the text calls for the strengthening of the eu task force against 'russia's disinformation campaigns'. the task force in question now consists of a 'network of 400 experts' who are paid by european citizens, mostly without their knowledge. its online products are a website and a twitter account dedicated to "media lies in favor of russia's policies". the motion describes the growing disaffection of citizens towards the eu as a "decline in critical thinking in the public" which becomes "more prone to misinformation and manipulation", but does not link this disaffection to austerity and the resulting social slaughter. instead, it is closer to the fact that the kremlin would fund "parties and other organizations within the eu" and that its "propaganda" would target "journalists, politicians and specific individuals within the eu" with the aim of "distorting the truth, instilling fear, provoking doubt and dividing the eu". it is a way of unconsciously avoiding the sad reality of the social disasters caused by eu policies.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to ensure and extend as far as possible the accessibility of works, content, etc. to deaf people. in today's society, it is of paramount importance to enable deaf people to access a greater number of services, including public and government services, online. equal access to the digital space is a subject which i consider particularly important in view of the rapid development of technology and the rapid pace of digitalisation. in this sense, efforts should be made to speed up the provision of sign language interpretation in all areas where it is needed. i am particularly sensitive to such matters and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ there are about 1 million deaf sign language users in the european union, plus 51 million deaf citizens who also use sign language to communicate. these are citizens who have equal rights and can rightly expect equal treatment to ensure that they live an independent and autonomous life and participate fully in social life. the resolution adopted by parliament today, which i have decided to support with conviction, stresses the need to ensure accessibility not only in the physical environment but also in information and communication, which must offer content in sign language. this requires professional and qualified interpreters, who are registered and appropriately trained and paid. new technologies must be used to benefit users, with interventions ranging from subtitling to online content accessible via live and remote intermediaries. the european institutions must be at the forefront of this battle, setting the best examples of good practice and working towards the provision of reasonable solutions and accessibility.
in writing. ‒ europe has one million deaf citizens and 51 million hearing people who struggle every day to make their voices heard in society. in these years in the european parliament i have actively supported the fight for the rights of these citizens. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this resolution which promotes the official recognition of national sign languages and also the formal recognition of the profession of sign language interpreter and of national or regional registers for those working in this field.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution because the union constantly fights against discrimination based on disability and for the equal participation of such persons in society. in this regard, i recognised the need to provide the european institutions with qualified and professional sign language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ recognising the importance of sign language is an act of civilization that can no longer be postponed. all european citizens have the right to information, to access public documents, to know and to be able to participate in political debate. the shortage of sign language interpreters must be overcome and new professionals must be brought in to make the work of the european union institutions truly accessible to all citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in question, which gives greater prominence to the role of professional and qualified sign language interpreters. the proposal indicates the need to address the shortage of such interpreters through formal recognition of the profession, formal qualification and registration. it is undoubtedly a very good proposal because it benefits certain groups of people (deaf, deafblind and hearing-impaired citizens) who must have the same right to access information as others. this is why sign language interpreting is a professionally important service. the proposal also stresses the importance of introducing the national sign language to deaf, deafblind and hearing-impaired pupils and their parents through school and pre-school courses. the eu insign pilot project, which aims to improve communication between deaf and hard of hearing people and the eu institutions, is called for.
in writing. ‒ as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the european institutions have a duty to fight against all forms of discrimination based on disability. the deaf and hard of hearing experience obstacles to equal participation in all areas of life, whether it be education, employment, health, justice or social and political life. the union has a moral obligation to remove these obstacles and to combat any discrimination that exists. we must ensure that all citizens have access to the same information and communications in the form of sign language interpretation and subtitling with a high level of quality, which too often varies considerably from one member state to another. in this sense, i hope that the relevant institutions can benefit from the new language technologies in enabling equal access for all to the digital space. i also believe that the inadequate implementation of the legislative recognition of sign language at national level and the lack of formal recognition of the profession of sign language interpreter need to be addressed. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to remove the obstacles which still prevent the full integration of deaf and hard of hearing citizens. the creation of a society accessible to the hearing impaired is fully acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the lack of professional and qualified sign language interpreters leads me to vote strongly in favour of the resolution under consideration. it is, beyond any doubt, a matter of priority to ensure full accessibility for the deaf and hard of hearing not only in the political processes of the union but in all activities. it is therefore recommended that national and regional sign languages be recognised in all the member states and within the european institutions themselves. the promotion of the linguistic identity of deaf communities and the learning of sign language is also called for. this can only be achieved through an efficient training system, followed by the establishment of a register of interpreters and formal recognition of the profession. accessibility also requires to be pursued regardless of the burden and is mandatory also because of the limited supply of traceable interpretation. ensuring equal access to employment, education and training is a key imperative and is the tangible result of early intervention programmes aimed at developing life skills. in line with this, i welcome the full implementation of the eu pilot project insign, a real-time sign language interpretation service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that all deaf and hard of hearing people have the right to dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and social inclusion. i urge the member states and the european institutions to increase the number of sign language interpreters to enable deaf and hard of hearing people to participate fully in social life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. i am a firm believer in the importance of defending the rights of deaf, deafblind and hearing-impaired citizens, both symbolically and practically. the latter must have access to the same information and communications as their counterparts in the form of sign language interpretation, subtitling and alternative forms of communication, including interpreters. equal access to services for citizens must be a constantly present variable, one which we in the european parliament must never forget.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution calling on the member states and the institutions to remove certain obstacles which still prevent the full integration of deaf citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report on ensuring the rights of individuals who use sign language and that their need for interpreters is respected. the report outlines the necessary qualifications that should apply for an interpreter and applies the same standards for sign language interpreters – this is an important step to ensure that no discrimination exists and that these interpreters have professional recognition. the european institutions must have a commitment to making the political process as accessible as possible for everyone – including through sign language interpreters – and this requires recognised minimum standards. access to employment, education and training are a key issue for the inclusion of people with hearing disabilities and we must ensure that every action is taken to ensure the equal opportunity to learn and work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union must not only defend the rights of all citizens in words but also in practice. and indeed, as full citizens, all persons with disabilities, and in this particular case those who need sign language support, have the inalienable right to full participation in the life of the society of which they are a part. the guarantee of this right must be demonstrated first by the european institutions. in particular, i believe it is right to urge the institutions to give the same recognition to sign language interpreters as is given to spoken language interpreters in relation to the interpreting services they provide on a daily basis. to achieve this goal, there are concrete steps that can be taken in the member states, starting with training and formal recognition of the profession. finally, we must recognize that sign language interpretation is a professional service which requires adequate remuneration, given the service it provides and the possibility it gives the institutions to ensure respect for the right to equality for all european citizens.
in writing. in the eu, there are about 1 million deaf sign language users and 51 million deaf people, who often use sign language. all these persons, whether they use sign language or not, have the right to an independent life, equal treatment, autonomy and participation in social life. accessibility, both in terms of physical accessibility and in terms of information and communication, is the key to guaranteeing these rights. unfortunately, there is a shortage of qualified sign language interpreters in our member states, and therefore very often there is limited access to information for people with disabilities. for these reasons, the report adopted today contains proposals to increase the number of professional and qualified sign language interpreters, to increase accessibility to information, to ensure equal access to employment, education and training and, finally, to make the institutions of the european union more accessible. the citizens of the union are entitled to the same opportunities regardless of race, gender, age and disability, and for these reasons i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that all disabled people, whether they use sign language or not, have equal rights. the european union, both by the tfeu, which enshrines, in accordance with article 10, the need to combat discrimination on the grounds of disability, and by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which prohibits such discrimination, and at the same time promotes the equal participation of persons with disabilities in the life of the community. in addition, there are 1 million deaf sign language users and 51 million hearing citizens in the european union. the european union must therefore not only promote the knowledge of more spoken languages but also encourage the knowledge of sign languages, recognising that those who know sign languages are as important as spoken language interpreters. these rights of the disabled must also extend to access to information sources, so the presence of sign language experts in the european media should also be promoted. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010, the european union has undertaken to implement the provisions contained therein. specifically, that convention highlights the importance of the professional performance of sign language interpreters in order to facilitate equal and equal participation of deaf people in society. accessibility, employment, education and training are some of the issues addressed in this resolution, as well as a more specific provision on the provision of sign language interpreters for public events and meetings held in the eu institutions. considering that there are approximately 1 million deaf people and 51 million hearing impaired people using sign language in europe and that there is a shortage of professional and qualified interpreters in all member states, it is important that the european institutions give full effect to the un convention. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the issues related to the use in agriculture, as a post-emergency selective herbicide, of the active substance bentazone, which has been found to have a high potential for direct leaching into groundwater. taking into account that the assessment of the uses of bentazone is insufficient to conclude that there will be no harmful effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable impact on the environment, the commission is requested to withdraw the draft implementing regulation, which provided for the authorisation of bentazone until 31 january 2032, and to submit a new draft. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone because it contained too many criticisms to the placing of these plant protection products on the market despite all reassurances provided by the commission’s studies. indeed, i trust the work of the commission’s experts on that topic, and i think the assessment they gave on the representative uses of the active substance bentazone is sufficient to conclude that those products do not have harmful effects on human or animal health.
in writing. ‒ benzatone is a substance that acts as a post-emergency selective herbicide against broadleaf weeds in a wide variety of crops and is commonly used in agriculture. however, it has a high potential for direct leaching into groundwater (sloughs, streams, springs) and is present in very significant quantities in many surface water bodies throughout europe. analyses and studies of its actual or alleged danger are not yet complete and so far do not allow it to be completely ruled out. for this reason, and in accordance with the precautionary principle, we in the european parliament ask the commission to withdraw its draft regulation on benzatone, to wait for new data and to redefine a new draft that puts the protection of the health of citizens and the safety of water and agricultural land at the centre.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal by the commission of the authorisation of bentazone. data from the uk environment agency indicate a significant presence of this pesticide in uk groundwater due to its intrinsic properties. at present there is no adequate and sufficient information to establish that there are no adverse effects on human or animal health and no disastrous environmental impact. the commission's decision on renewal is in contradiction with its own request for more scientific information confirming the safety of the active substance. on this basis, the objection calls for the withdrawal of the draft implementing regulation and the formulation of a new one based on additional data available.
in writing. ‒ in view of the recent studies, particularly in the uk, on bentazone, i can only vote against the renewal of the expired authorisation on 30 june 2017. it is a post-emergency selective herbicide against broadleaf weeds used in a wide variety of crops and is commonly used in agriculture. it has a high potential for direct leaching into groundwater due to its intrinsic properties. little wonder, then, that the most common pesticide is found in groundwater. i believe that the safety of bentazone needs further confirmation and consideration, recalling how a peer-view of the european food safety authority tends to classify the herbicide as toxic to reproduction. parliament called on the commission to assess the missing information before opting for renewal of the authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the measure in question because i believe that the side effects of bentazone as an active substance have not yet been sufficiently tested. i believe that this matter should be further investigated and all necessary additional checks, including a complete data collection, should be carried out before any decisions are taken.
in writing. ‒ the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone for the placing of plant protection products on the market provides, on the basis of a scientific evaluation by the european food safety authority (efsa), for the authorisation of bentazone until 31 january 2032, i.e. for the maximum period allowed. however, the consumer risk assessment has not yet been finalised as the proposed residue definitions for the risk assessment in plants and for the application to animals are considered provisional due to the identified data gaps. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this objection, because a commission decision to approve an active substance would allow the active substance to be placed on the market before all the data needed to support that decision have been obtained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the objection because i believe it is necessary for the commission to receive all the missing information on bentazone before taking a decision on the approval for the renewal of the authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, as i consider that all the information necessary to support with complete certainty the renewal of the approval of bentazone granted by the commission is still missing. the precautionary principle contained in regulation 1187/2009 is, in my view, a key principle of eu environmental policy: the protection of plants and the marketing of plant protection products must therefore comply with this principle. the commission's choice to grant renewal of approval through the exceptional confirmation procedure is in breach of this principle and parliament cannot accept that a long-term authorization for a product is granted in the absence of an assessment of the risks to consumers, mammals and endocrine disruption profiles. i therefore ask the commission to withdraw the proposed measure and to ask efsa to make all the necessary findings.
in writing. ‒ i voted against my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the active substance bentazone is used with excellent results as a tool to eradicate broadleaf weeds and is also, in the light of data compiled by the uk environment agency, the substance most commonly detected in groundwater and surface water. the european union, by regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending the annex to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 540/2011, extends the use of that substance until 2032, while imposing compliance with the conditions and restrictions due to the hazardous nature of the active substance bentazone. i therefore voted against.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to try to put a different question to you. it is now more than five years since the adoption of the istanbul convention and i think we must ask ourselves: why have not all eu countries ratified it yet and others not even signed it? the states that have not ratified it have certainly not done so, because they are not against violence against women. so let us pause to understand the real motives behind these non-ratifications. the reason why some states oppose ratification is to be found in certain contents of the convention itself, which are outside the scope of the fight against gender-based violence, such as the introduction, for the first time in an international treaty, of the social definition of "gender", which becomes binding on the states that ratified the convention. and it is therefore understandable that the states where the gender debate is more complicated are resistant to such ratification. if this pressure had not been applied at the time, which has nothing to do with the urgency of the issue of violence against women, we would probably not be facing such a paradoxical situation today. let us ask ourselves, rather, whether in the states where it has been ratified and for which legislation has been enacted, there have been clear positive statistical results in terms of reducing gender-based violence. should we not focus on the fact that member states are actually legislating and taking measures to prevent and combat violence against women? many states have concentrated on repressive measures and still too little on preventive ones. from the experience we have had in europe, unfortunately, the concept of prevention is still focused on locking up the potential victim in a protected structure, thus restricting his freedom and movement, and leaving the dangerous subject free to move. it seems absurd that an instrument such as the convention, which should unite us in this battle, should end up dividing us and, five years later, we have still not reached a result, a solution. in short, let us get past these formal questions and concentrate more on monitoring what is actually happening in individual countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like us all to ask ourselves whether europe is the place where one third of women, one third of european citizens, one third of women who cross europe, suffer physical, material or symbolic violence because of their gender identity. there is no justification for the non-ratification of the istanbul convention by 14 countries and it is surprising that some colleagues are invoking the specter of gender to justify the non-ratification; the european union is not only a party to the convention, but also a party to the convention itself. we must fight against all forms of male violence against women, whether it be physical, symbolic or psychological. and we will be in the streets of rome on november 26th, in a demonstration called to say "not one less", to denounce and fight against all forms of male violence. finally, i would like to dedicate my speech to figen yuksekdag, an hdp parliamentarian who is being held in detention by the erdogan regime. i believe that the kurdish women and the turkish women who are fighting against the regime... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a tragedy so widespread in our civilized europe, only a few stupid and racist voices can think that the phenomenon is due solely to immigration. in the face of this tragedy, madam commissioner, we see that civil society, associations and ngos are doing a tremendous job. the european institutions are not like that. the council is still debating - they said - sophisticated legal issues. well, i mean, we've solved the most sophisticated legal problems when we were interested in getting a result. and the commission has still not done what we ask for every year and what we are now asking for in paragraph 10 of the resolution, namely a directive which is a legal basis, because in some member states there is no law, no law, no legal basis to protect victims and persons subjected to violence. so, commissioner, we ask you once again: i would like to ask the commissioner to make a statement on the situation in the community. we want laws and we want resources and services, because in many countries women's homes and shelters are closing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution parliament is paying an unrecoverable debt to the many, many women who are victims of violence in europe and is restoring hope to a process which should be speeded up and unhindered, but which is proceeding at a slow pace in the council. violence against women is an extreme form of discrimination and a violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of victims. we therefore call for all acts of violence against women and girls, and therefore domestic violence, to be classified as particularly serious crimes, as our treaty also states. the union must commit itself and act with a comprehensive plan to combat all forms of gender inequality, because no state can feel less involved than another in this struggle of civilisations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that one woman in three will suffer at least one episode of physical or sexual violence in her lifetime. not only that: according to the european commission, only 30% of victims report their abuse to the competent authorities, thus condemning to silence a problem that is likely to become a social scourge. now, in my view, the presidency of the council has missed an opportunity today, today. to be here with something new. instead, she has done a mostly hypocritical little homework, without making any commitment to this. november 25th is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. i believe that this initiative of the european parliament today should not be merely symbolic, but should be a concrete action for the member states, not just for ratification, but above all to call for greater legislative responsibility in prosecuting gender-based violence, instead promoting gender equality as an essential value of our pluralist and democratic society.
the presidency also sends its warm greetings and its closeness.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women continues, and continues. women who are victims of physical, psychological and sexual violence, domestic violence, violence in the presence of children, children. it's not tolerable, it's not tolerable any more. the european union must send a clear message about the need to protect women from violence throughout europe. specific and harmonised legal rules are needed. in this sense, the provisions of the istanbul convention contain legal instruments which are useful not only for prosecuting perpetrators of crimes but also for preventing violence. i am thinking, for example, of the possibility of removing the perpetrator of domestic violence from his home. but protecting women from violence also means protecting children. children, victims of domestic violence, witnesses to domestic violence, which causes psychological trauma and often leaves indelible traces. i am aware of the legal challenges for the union's accession to the istanbul convention but i hope that today's debate and the resolution we will vote on tomorrow will be an effective stimulus towards a swift and successful conclusion of the accession process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 march 2016 the commission proposed that the european union accede to the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument for preventing and combating violence against women. the international day against violence against women is celebrated on 25 november and provides an opportunity to raise awareness and reflect on the need to overcome, prevent and combat all forms of violence and harassment against women in all areas of their personal, family and social lives, including the workplace. italy, like other member states, has incorporated the istanbul convention into its legal system. but all the other member states must do so soon. it is a cultural effort by all to overcome sexist and offensive behaviour towards women and to educate citizens to respect them. the accession of the european union to the convention is a further step forward in ensuring greater efficiency and coherence in policies to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence: but we need concrete policies.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this discussion. i am really unhappy to have to repeat that the situation is not getting better; the situation is becoming worse in europe and that is why we decided to earmark quite a lot of money to the campaign. that is why we keep exerting pressure on the member states to ratify the istanbul convention. that is why we are in such intensive discussions with the council to have the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention adopted. these are the concrete measures and concrete steps. i just want to tell you and confirm that what was quoted here by ms arena – from simone de beauvoir – was right: we are now in a period of where the atmosphere in society as such is worsening. i am working also in the field of anti-extremism and anti-radicalisation of society. i am in contact with the main it providers. we are trying to combat hate speech online with all possible efficient tools, and this is the sphere where a lot of violence against women starts. and it is not only against women. it is against all the other vulnerable groups in our societies. we should bear in mind that this is a complex issue and the worsening of the atmosphere in our society is not any excuse for saying, ‘okay, so this is also the case with violence against women’. we must combat and mobilise forces against this on all fronts. i know that you expect answers from me and i am going to raise several questions here. i will not be long as i know that we are limited by time. you asked: is the political will missing? i think we have to monitor what will be done at member state level, whether they will ratify the convention, but i can only share with you my frustration that i was in discussions with some colleagues from member states, some of the ministers and people responsible for equality and gender policy, and they told me it is more and more difficult to sell. it is more and more unpopular in some of our member states. why is that so? we have to support this policy from a european level and to support these colleagues who work in the member states. another question which was flying through the air here: is violence against women a taboo in society? is it really culturally rooted in some parts of our society where we hear that violence is something normal, it is normality? is there really such a strong silent acceptance of this phenomenon in our society? if so, then i am afraid that we cannot change it just by legislation. we need to do much more on the preventive side. we need to do much more campaigning, awareness-raising. we have to work with the young generation. so it is a very complex issue, and i am afraid that if something is culturally-rooted, it will take more time to change it and we have to keep on trying. we will open the data on this which we now have from the eurobarometer. for 94% of our citizens, violence against women is intolerable. it is a very surprisingly high number, but at the same time, one quarter of people say ‘but the victims are very often also guilty’. we will see these surprising findings from this new survey, which will show us that we have to work more vis-à-vis society itself, and legislation will not do this by magic. and believe me, i speak to politicians, i speak to organisations, ngos, to people who are somehow engaged, and all of them say that this is very serious, this is getting worse, we have to combat this. and then when i speak to – and forgive me for this expression – ‘normal people’, they say to me: ‘what do you want? nothing is happening, it cannot be that bad’. and this applies to everything we do on gender. once that label of ‘gender’ is put on it, it does not take off. people say: ‘what do you want? sometimes when i promote gender policy and the policy of equality i work with economic figures. i have never done this for this problem of violence. i will do it now. the estimation of the costs for europe is more than eur 200 million a year. this is the cost of violence against women. and why am i quite reticent to use this argument? because here, we have to speak about the lives of women and children. this is not about money, but it is good to understand that it also has this economic aspect. the last difficult question is: can we change the behaviour of the victims themselves? everybody – and the eurobarometer survey showed it – knows somebody who is a victim. so why do we have so few of them – 15-20% of victims – who report it and use the helping hand of society, use the social services, use the power of law enforcement authorities? why is this so? we need to change this and we need to encourage them. we have legislation for this. the victims directive clearly asks and demands that the law enforcement authorities take a special approach to victims of violence, of domestic violence, to children and women who are the victims of this. so we need to join forces and we need to use all possible instruments, not only legislation, to change the situation. i am sure the istanbul convention should be ratified by all member states because there are practical measures. there are also measures which can help children who are victims, as well as women. european union accession is equally important. it is not true that we are decreasing the competences of member states by this accession. we are enlarging the coherence of this policy within europe. we can get better data collection and monitoring of the situation. it is also equally important and it will achieve slightly different goals from those which must be achieved through ratification by the member states. one last comment. it must be absolutely clear to european society, to european people, and to the newcomers, the people who come in the refugee influx – and this is more a message for this side of the chamber – that violence against women is intolerable in europe, for all, and we must not relativise it. this must be absolutely clear, and this must not only be the subject for awareness-raising in european citizens, but also in all integration plans and activities vis-à-vis the people who are coming to europe.
the debate is closed. i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the council also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the draft legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council for the adoption of a new legislative proposal for the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we should recall the speech by the king of jordan in strasbourg in march 2015: i call for unity and the development of a strategic partnership between european jordan. the priority of this strategy is to create an alternative to radicalisation to overcome economic uncertainty and exclusion but, above all, to move towards a consolidated peace. jordan has requested a loan from the european union because development and growth are an absolute priority for jordan. i would like to remind you that jordan - as has already been done, however - despite the serious economic and financial difficulties, has opened its arms to a huge number of syrian refugees: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of the new airport. it's as if the entire population of belgium moved to france. it also faces major difficulties in energy supply, a significant drop in tourism revenue and a decline in foreign investment. so, massive presence of refugees, with an estimated cost to the kingdom of jordan of 7 billion euros, and a current account deficit still very high, which is around 11.7% of the jordanian gdp. the negotiating team at the trilogue, as the rapporteur recalled, fought for an increase in macro-financial assistance: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial framework for the period 2014-2020. so we will support this measure wholeheartedly and strongly.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on aid to jordan in the form of macrofinancial assistance. in other circumstances, the five star movement has expressed itself unfavourably towards the transfer of economic contributions to other countries, but jordan is a notable exception: because of its geographical location, it has taken all the effects of the syrian crisis, its tourism has declined, its unemployment has increased, its growth has decreased. nor can we ignore the fact that it has taken in over 650,000 syrian refugees on its soil, doing what almost all of europe refuses to do: take care of them. jordan is also on the front line against terrorism, against isis, and helping jordan also means protecting europe. so we feel we have to support these efforts. we shall vote in favour of this measure and i thank mr maurel for his work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too often in recent times the public debate on trade policy has focused on highly divisive issues, which are creating opposing factions rather than a common conscience that can exploit their full potential. international trade is also a fundamental instrument of foreign policy and not just a means of improving access to markets. the case of macro-financial assistance to jordan is emblematic in this respect. the european union has undertaken a major show of solidarity with a country of six and a half million people which is hosting more than two million refugees. the jordanian story must be an example: the european union is a people in crisis, with a strong geopolitical instability, which has not backed down in the face of great difficulties. it must be acknowledged, thanks also to the excellent work of the rapporteur, emmanuel maurel, that the european parliament had set even more ambitious objectives, which at least had the consequence of raising the bar of the final decision even further. the measure we are going to put into effect with our vote is really aimed at supporting the efforts of our partners, trying to mitigate the causes of migration flows. this is a good example of a trade policy which looks beyond economic interests and can influence the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict in syria has no borders because it affects everyone: first of all europe, where terrible terrorist attacks have forced thousands of refugees to our shores. then there are the countries that suffer most from this conflict because of their territorial proximity to that dramatic theatre of war: the european union is also committed to the peace process in the middle east. but these are also the countries that are reacting with greater responsibility and solidarity, welcoming thousands of refugees and setting an example for all. the european union must continue to provide financial assistance to jordan, which is a key partner in the region, also because it plays a very important role in the fight against terrorism and isis. but with a public debt that reaches 93% of gdp, jordan, on its own, is certainly not able to withstand this pressure. but it is essential to attach precise conditions to our support, first and foremost respect for democratic and human rights. the political dialogue with jordan should be a positive model for the whole of the middle east.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in september i took part in a mission of the cont committee to lebanon and jordan, countries which have taken in the largest number of syrian refugees in proportion to their population. we have seen the difficult conditions in which the syrian refugees and also the palestinians are living, but also the considerable effort of the government in amman to take in people fleeing conflicts in neighbouring countries. however, the very high number of refugees on jordanian soil is threatening to bring about the collapse of some of the country's public services, such as the health and education systems. in particular, the lack of available places in schools means that the right to education is also denied to many syrian children. the migration pressure and the impact of the syrian conflict on the jordanian economy, particularly in terms of exports and tourism, are contributing to a surge in public debt. it is therefore right and necessary for the union to provide macro-financial assistance to jordan, which is setting an example of solidarity in its efforts to give a dignified welcome to refugees, many of whom are children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of the syrian refugee crisis shows unequivocally that we cannot continue as in the past, leaving the burden on the shoulders of some countries. we are facing the greatest migration crisis of our time and we need a stronger global solidarity. the burden on countries hosting large numbers of refugees needs to be alleviated. jordan is one of the countries that offers a significant contribution in relation to its population: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the refugees. thousands of women and men, especially children, are in need of immediate help. all live in critical conditions, often having known nothing in their lives but war and the despair of the camps. macro-financial assistance to jordan is an excellent initiative to help stabilize the middle east and is the right way to show concrete solidarity with a country like jordan, which is experiencing such a critical situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text and the proposal for this vat reform at european level do not satisfy us, and they do not satisfy us because they do not propose effective, sufficient and definitive solutions to this serious problem, as the figures in question have shown. four things to improve: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. second point: there is no real system of information sharing: transparency is key. for example, there is no single european register of companies which would help to combat such fraud. three , please . there is no upper limit to the vat imposed by the member states. we know that too high a level of vat is depressing consumption and god knows how much we need it in europe today. the last point is the reverse charge, which is a mechanism that has proved ineffective in combating fraud and risks encouraging new fraud, while also placing a heavy administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that i have spoken on the subjects of tax evasion and avoidance, tax ruling and the vulnerability of the vat system to fraud. i stress the harmful effects of these schemes on the competition system, which are distorted. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are properly used to finance the necessary reforms. the lack of tax harmonisation of vat is the financial lifeblood of criminal activities, which exploit the legislative and information differences between the various member states by implementing 'carousel' fraud, which generate up to €53 billion of missed vat revenue each year. this undermines citizens' trust and distances the functioning of the digital single market and its harmonisation with the capital market from the entry point. it is in response to these requests that i am putting my name to the report, aware of the need to improve the current vat system as announced by the commission on 7 april.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the european vat system is now indispensable. the current, outdated system has proved vulnerable to fraud and a source of distortion of competition to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises. for example, vat fraud, carried out by criminal groups alone, is estimated to cost the european union between 40 and 60 million euros a year. several investigations by europol have shown that criminal groups also finance themselves through large-scale cross-border vat fraud, so-called 'carousel' fraud, also taking advantage of the legislative gaps between member states. to eradicate this phenomenon, it is essential to strengthen administrative cooperation between states in order to remove legal obstacles to the exchange of information between administrative and judicial authorities. i therefore thank the rapporteur for his work on the text proposing a reform of vat, a text which i share.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must not think that illegal wildlife trafficking is only for environmentalists. economically, with a turnover of 213 billion dollars, it is the fourth largest criminal market after the drug, human trafficking and arms markets. the report is very good and reinforces the contents of the european commission's action plan, for example by calling for greater coordination between the member states and the european union agencies, but also for the states themselves to draw up national action plans in order to ensure effective, coherent and harmonised approaches. it stressed the importance of new forms of eu funding for the fight against illegal trafficking and the introduction of regular checks to verify the progress and effectiveness of the action plan. the report also expresses concern at the lack of proper implementation of cites in some member states and draws attention to hunting trophies, calling for an immediate ban on all imports and exports of rhino horn and ivory. finally, it stressed the importance of the awareness-raising campaign for both local populations and consumers. i thank the rapporteur and all the other members because they have done a really good job.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan to combat wildlife trafficking within the eu is ambitious and strengthens our role in combating this illegal activity in the world. trafficking is becoming one of the most lucrative criminal activities, bringing organised crime groups up to 20 billion euros a year, the equivalent of the trafficking of drugs, people and weapons. the european union is one of the main destinations for wildlife trade and coordinated action is needed to address the causes, to apply existing rules effectively and to strengthen overall cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. above all, there are the negative impacts on biodiversity and existing ecosystems, as well as on our children. yes, because, as commissioner vella rightly said, to make our citizens, our consumers, understand the importance of this decision: at the current rate, children born today will see the last wild elephants and rhinos die before they're 25 years old. and not just, by the way, the well-known species like elephants and rhinos, but many other species no less important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the illegal trade in wildlife represents a serious and growing threat to biodiversity and the environment, but it also represents a source of income for criminal organisations, with a total annual business value of several billion euros, the proceeds of which are often used to finance further very serious crimes. it is therefore essential that the efforts of the european institutions, in addition to harmonising and tightening the regulatory framework, should be directed towards strengthening cooperation between the police forces of the countries of origin, transit and destination of wild species and encouraging the sharing of information with the competent authorities and agencies of the union. the illegal wildlife trade is a challenge we cannot afford to lose. the biological wealth of our planet must be preserved and preserved intact for future generations and this source of income for organised crime must be removed. i would therefore like to thank mrs bearder for her work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, trafficking in protected species is the fourth largest illegal market after drugs, arms and human beings, with a turnover of tens of billions of euros a year. it is often run by organised crime, which is harmful to the environment, and it is often used to finance terrorist movements. the low probability of detection and the high profits represent an irresistible attraction for organized crime. in this context, i consider the european action plan promoted by the commission to be effective, which will strengthen the union's role in the global fight against illegal wildlife trafficking by preventing, cooperating and recognising europe as a destination market and as a point of origin and transit for wildlife products. however, particular attention should be paid to the timely implementation by member states of all the instruments of the action plan. the commission's constant monitoring and the annual report to be submitted to the european parliament will be useful checks to test the validity of the measures taken.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to welcome the report by mr riquet which provides a really balanced view of current developments in the transport sector, while pointing out some of the major challenges. let me respond to the elements of his report. first, on the importance of smes in the transport sector. road transport is a sector which is characterised by hundreds of thousands of smes. as an example, 95% of road freight companies are micro-companies with less than 10 employees. as opposed to other modes of transport, companies in road transport are subject to stiff competition in an already open market. this is largely due to the creation of a single market. however, looking at the local level and at passenger transport in particular, the development has been quite different. local and regional markets are often closed and strictly regulated, or even operated directly by public authorities. this way of functioning has not been challenged until recently. in some cases it has not promoted the industry to develop innovative solutions for transport. on the role of the commission, our role is to propose, where appropriate, eu legislation that addresses issues identified in a proportionate manner, having regard to the different public interests possibly involved, such as road safety or social working conditions, and of course our role is also to ensure that member states comply with eu law, and the responsibility of member states highlighted by your report is therefore very welcome. on the 2017 road initiatives, as you know, the commission has announced legislative proposals in the field of road transport to be presented in the first semester of 2017. when reviewing existing eu legislation in road transport, we will be looking for a balance between social standards and enhancing the functioning of the internal market. in particular, we are looking at ways to improve rules on access to the profession of road transport operator that are supposed to ensure fair conditions for hauliers of different member states. we need to adjust and clarify rules in a way that does not increase administrative burdens. on digitalisation of the economy, digitalisation is an opportunity to increase mobility and reduce congestion in cities, but it may also be a challenge for transport. we must ensure access to relevant transport data by all potential service providers, which is essential to ensure fair competition and effective functioning of the single market, and for municipalities and regulators to improve mobility services. on the collaborative economy and regulation of shared passenger transport, the commission has made it clear, notably in the communication on the collaborative economy, that it supports initiatives that help make better use of resources and that make the lives of citizens easier. we have also made it clear that all undertakings must observe union law, as well as applicable national law, which itself must be in line with union law. within this framework, however, it is up to the undertakings concerned to choose their business model. at the same time, we have encouraged member states to take the emergence of new technological solutions and business models as an opportunity to modernise decades-old regulations, and only apply restrictions if fully justified, proportionate and non-discriminatory. when looking at the legislation and applying it to new business models, the commission encourages member states to take into account the particularities of the collaborative economy. in this context, thresholds may be a good means to distinguish between professional providers and peer providers. banning services should only be a last resort and should be objectively justified by reason of an overriding public interest. in the specific case of passenger transport by taxi, hire car and ride-sharing, the commission launched a fact-finding study which has identified a huge diversity of national and local rules, resulting in a very different development on the market in each member state. while one can see some restrictions which are difficult to justify, we also see some good examples. more and more member states realise the potential of technological development, as well as new ways of organising transport services. some member states have decided to modify and simplify their laws by removing unnecessary barriers while ensuring minimum standards. these signs are encouraging and the commission will continue to support this process.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the transport market, traditional business models are now being supplemented by new business models which are attractive because of the employment benefits they bring and because they make the services offered more competitive, to the benefit of the final consumers. but we cannot but express our concern about the possible repercussions on working conditions, on precariousness and safety, and the risk that the boundary between selfemployment and employment will become blurred. furthermore, digitised business models do not appear to be as transparent as the competition rules, with the risk of encouraging unfair market practices, tax avoidance and evasion. we therefore need a legal framework that establishes a grid within which the need to protect the traditional market, to ensure the safety of workers, to guarantee consumers, to prevent the collaborative economy from being placed within the spaces of the economy and underground work prevails.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for the report and to highlight some of the points which are a priority for us. the first concerns the environment and the need to put small businesses in a position, including economically, to comply with the new environmental policies resulting from the paris agreements and to be able to absorb any new higher costs and burdens. we also welcome new opportunities for collaborative business models, with particular attention to social problems, possible distortions, social dumping and security issues. we are in favour of collaborative models but we are in step to stem these problems. we also welcome the revision of the existing regulation on international transport and cabotage rules. since its entry into force, there have been enormous problems, especially in connection with certain forms of transport and in particular heavy goods transport on wheeled vehicles. finally, we promote universal access to the internet for a greater collaborative economy, ensuring free internet access for all.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the union's transport policy cannot ignore the key role that small and mediumsized enterprises play in this sector, generating economic activity, creating jobs and helping to make the management of mobility in europe more efficient. the added value of these companies is particularly evident in the most remote areas, where knowledge of the local market and proximity to the customer are crucial. in this context, it is important to emphasise the increasingly widespread collaborative models, which represent an additional resource for the sustainable development of connectivity, especially in peripheral, mountain and rural regions, with indirect benefits also for the tourism sector. last but not least, the issue of market access, where i believe it is essential to ensure fair conditions irrespective of the size of the individual companies.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, mr cramer, thank you very much for all your questions. i hope i will be able to respond to them adequately. since the publication of the commission communication on developing the external aviation agenda, the eu and the commission have been successfully pursuing aviation agreements in the neighbourhood and with key external partners. in the aviation strategy last december, we announced an ambitious external aviation agenda to ensure that our industry can be where growth is, and can deliver benefits to the european consumer and the eu economy. to that end, the commission proposed to negotiate eu air transport agreements with a number of partner countries – china, the member states of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), turkey, mexico, all six member states of the gulf cooperation council and armenia – as well as eu air safety agreements with china and japan. the objective is to tap into those markets and improve commercial opportunities within a modern regulatory framework. eu transport agreements with these partners aim to provide for market access based on the acceptance of certain common rules. in the case of neighbourhood countries, the eu expects the partner country to agree to implement the entire eu aviation acquis. the commission aims to replicate in new air transport agreements the positive impact of the existing agreements. these already cover almost half of today’s passengers flying in and out of the eu, and deliver consumer benefits through a modern, transparent and enabling regulatory framework, better connections and lower fares. with all the countries with which we sign such agreements we also see dramatic increases in traffic. eu bilateral aviation safety agreements promote cooperation to ensure high levels of civil aviation safety and environmental compatibility. they also serve the purpose of facilitating and promoting trade and investment relations for aeronautic products and services. through the negotiation of such air safety agreements with china and japan, the commission is seeking to replicate the benefits that have been achieved from similar agreements with the united states of america, canada and brazil. so what is the state of play of negotiations? on 7 march 2016, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations for bilateral air safety agreements with china and japan. a first round of negotiations with china will take place in december in beijing and a first round of negotiations with japan is expected in early 2017. on 7 june 2016, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with qatar, the united arab emirates (uae), asean and turkey. the first round of negotiations has taken place with qatar, asean and turkey. the next rounds are planned for early 2017. concerning the uae, there is no confirmation yet on the starting date for negotiations. the dialogue so far has been very constructive and the interest of all parties in making progress is already clear. we intend to sustain a quick pace throughout the negotiations. further requests for authorisation to launch negotiations with armenia, mexico, china and the four remaining countries of the gulf cooperation council, namely bahrain, kuwait, oman, and saudi arabia, are still on the table at the council. we expect that the commission will be authorised by the council in december to open negotiations with armenia. regarding cooperation with the european parliament, as you know, honourable members, the commission considers it very important that parliament is kept fully informed of progress in the aviation negotiations. the modalities for the commission’s contribution to keeping parliament informed were agreed between our two institutions and set out in the framework agreement. good cooperation on these matters must continue, as outlined in my letter of march this year to the chair of the committee on transport and tourism, mr cramer. my staff are working in this spirit to keep interested members of the transport committee informed about the state of play in the negotiations, as provided for in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, concluded earlier this year between parliament, the council and the commission, on improved practical arrangements for cooperation and information sharing in the context of international agreements. these negotiations provide a good opportunity to discuss further the modalities of our cooperation on these matters.
the air transport agreements between the union and third countries, with particular attention to new and expanding markets, represent an important opportunity for europe's international connectivity. the negotiation of these agreements is a crucial stage in this context, since it will have a decisive influence on their eventual content. for these reasons, i would like to stress the importance of the full and continuous involvement of the european parliament, as expressly provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is not just a question of transparency: the fact that we are able to assess the issues at stake, the timing and the state of the art, before and after each round of negotiations, means that we are able to make a conscious choice as to whether or not to support a potential agreement in the future. in this sense, i believe that the opportunities created by these agreements cannot and should not override the need to ensure fair and transparent market conditions for airlines in the european union. at the same time, i firmly believe that it is essential at the negotiating stage to ensure that the respective policies of the parties concerned support high levels of social protection. finally, i would like to stress that the role of the european parliament should not be limited to knowledge but also to proposing content.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, information and transparency towards parliament and the european citizens are essential, especially in an area such as aviation, which involves millions of passengers every year. i would like to know from the commission how it intends to deal with specific issues in these agreements, such as environmental, social, security and competitiveness issues. as regards the environment and safety, we know that not all third countries show the same attention and concern and that it is therefore necessary to maintain high european standards. we must pursue the paris objectives as a union and we must take all the necessary measures to that end, including, for example, the need to choose the shortest routes and not the least expensive ones for airlines. the importance of the correlation between social and safety aspects should also be emphasised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, i would ask the commissioner how she intends to protect european industry and fair competition, given the state aid rules in force in our internal market and the increasing presence of foreign capital which often escapes the application of those rules.
member of the commission. – mr president, ensuring a safe, reliable and uninterrupted energy supply in the eu is a top objective of european energy policy. as stated in the energy union strategy, we need to adopt a broad approach on energy security, encompassing solid emergency plans, external supply diversification, enforcement of internal market rules, infrastructure development, indigenous renewable generation and energy savings. first, the commission has proposed a revision of the 2010 security of gas supply regulation in order to improve further the level of preparedness and resilience of our gas system. this proposal aims at a more robust and consistent security of support framework, in particular by strengthening regional cooperation to lay the foundation for true solidarity among member states. second, the eu needs to ensure that intergovernmental agreements signed by its member states with third countries in the area of energy are more transparent and fully compliant with eu law. to that end, the commission proposed to significantly improve the information exchange mechanism with regard to intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments. third, the commission adopted the lng and gas storage strategy, which analyses the related strategic infrastructure to complete the internal energy market and the necessary projects to end the single source dependency of some member states. lastly, the security of supply package included the heating and cooling strategy. the commission strategy focuses on removing barriers to decarbonisation in buildings and industry, highlighting the role of modern technologies, increased energy efficiency and the use of renewables. in july 2015 the commission proposed a revision of the energy labelling directive and it will soon present a comprehensive review of the renewable energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings directives. but energy security also refers to the electricity sector itself, where security of supply requires us to develop a more integrated approach, based on common methods and rules, as well as regional cooperation. to ensure this, the commission is currently considering a proposal for a new regulation on how to prevent and manage crisis situations in the european electricity sector, which would include the obligation to draw up risk preparedness plans for member states, as well as sharing information and cooperation in times of crisis. in 2014 more than 80% of our total gas imports came from just three countries. the diversification of both suppliers and supply routes is therefore a key area to ensure security of supply, but we also need more competition that keeps prices in check. as argued in the energy union strategy, the commission has identified four main areas that can play a crucial role in enhancing gas supply diversification in europe. first, the realisation of the southern gas corridor is a landmark project as it will link the eu market to the immense gas resources around the caspian basin. the implementation of the project is on track and, as of 2020, it will start supplying the european market with 10 billion cubic meters of azeri gas each year. the caspian region has an incredible potential in terms of expanding these gas volumes. following the signature of the ashgabat declaration, the commission is working with azerbaijan, georgia, turkey and turkmenistan to extend the southern gas corridor to central asia. second, we have to cooperate with the countries bordering the eastern mediterranean in order to develop their rich resources. with regard to eastern mediterranean gas, a solution to the transport mode is required. both the lng and pipeline options are on the table. third, although north africa already supplies 15% of our gas imports, the region still has untapped oil and gas reserves, both conventional and unconventional. the main challenge to realising this potential and linking it to the eu market is to overcome the current security issues and political instability. in order to realise the opportunities in our southern neighbourhood a euro-mediterranean platform on gas has been set up and is operational. fourth, with the emergence of new suppliers, lng will become an important flexibility element in the coming years. in this respect, we need to ensure an optimal use of our existing and future regasification capacities. when it comes to gas supply, it is important to stress that ukraine is – and should remain – an important transit country for russian gas to europe. the commission has led trilateral negotiations between russia, ukraine and the eu to ensure a continuous flow of russian gas into ukraine and to the rest of europe. we are also working with our ukrainian partners to revise and upgrade the existing memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation to be fit for the common challenges ahead. we hope to sign this at the eu—ukraine summit later this week. let me conclude this intervention with a few words on nord stream ii. irrespective of the organisational set—up of nord stream ii, the commission’s overall negative assessment of the project’s contribution to the eu’s energy policy goals remains valid. if built, nord stream ii would have to fully comply with applicable eu law, as the project cannot happen in a legal void or only according to russian law. nord stream ii, if built, has to be operated under a legal framework which also takes due account of the key principles of our energy market rules. transport capacity from russia is currently only used at a rate of about 50%. if constructed, nord stream ii would, according to our estimates, increase access transmission capacity from russia even further. in this context, let me also mention the decision on opal that the commission took a few weeks ago. this is the result of an exemption procedure under the eu’s third energy package legislation for the use of an internal pipeline in the eu, and was requested by a national regulator. this decision will allow a more efficient use of the existing infrastructure and, in particular, allow competitors better access to it, thereby enhancing competition. in our view, this makes the economic case for nord stream ii even less compelling. i am now ready to listen to your comments and then respond to them.
i think that the urgency of discussing european energy security now has not been felt. we are only a few weeks away from the adoption of the buzek report and we are lacking any new and relevant facts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of energy efficiency. energy security increasingly means tackling energy poverty on a large and small scale. but the timing, in my view, is not the best, especially in view of the winter legislative package which is due for 30 november and which will contain quite a few indications on the subject, as well as focusing in particular on renewables, market design and energy efficiency. it is perhaps in this context, looking at the picture as a whole, that we can best understand the medium- and long-term prospects for european energy security, without, however, neglecting the contingent debate, such as that on north stream 2 or other infrastructure projects which seem to run counter to the reasons for the energy union. it is therefore very important that the commission should come out with the new proposals on 30 november so that parliament can have a debate, a development of the work on them, which is adequately attentive, present and constructive.
in writing. the commission continues to include in its objectives the increase of renewable energy, the reduction of emissions and security of supply. yet in fact, it continues to support fossil fuels, such as gas, and even turns a blind eye to the us fracking industry, or even oil, if not nuclear. meanwhile, more than 50 million european citizens live in energy poverty to the extent that they require action to safeguard their health. many member states are also far from the renewable energy targets that would ensure a secure and self-sufficient supply. i therefore repeat what i have already said in the past, namely that it is essential to achieve a rapid abandonment of dependence on fossil fuels in order to facilitate widespread self-production and self-sufficiency in energy based on renewable sources. the transition phase must be rapid and supported by research, innovation and the effective and efficient use of all available european funds to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy production.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cases of maladministration found by the european ombudsman in the actions of the union's institutions and bodies make the serious democratic limitations of the current governance model fully understood. the annual report we are discussing today, which analyses the ombudsman's work, seems to be satisfactory in highlighting this aspect. but the european union is far from being fully transparent in its work. this is clearly evident from the persistence of a situation in which full access to documents held by the european institutions is denied and there are still significant opacities in relations with powerful private sector lobbies. it is not surprising, therefore, to find that a large number of decisions taken by the european institutions appear to be geared to satisfying the particular interests of the economic and financial elites. the worst thing is that it also shows how serious the socioeconomic and environmental implications of these are, to the detriment of the fundamental rights of citizens. the case of barroso, who at the end of his term as president of the european commission, accepts a top post at goldman sachs international, is emblematic in confirming the perverse combination between european institutional leaders and economic and financial elites. much stricter rules should have been adopted long ago to avoid not only revolving doors, as in the barroso affair, but also all those small and large conflicts of interest in the union's institutions, agencies and bodies which have damaged and continue to damage the credibility of technical and political decision-making at european level. in view of the current situation, it is not necessary to examine how the eci instrument, the european citizens' initiative, which should have increased the direct participation of citizens in the definition of union policies, continues to be hampered by those blatant procedural shortcomings which affect its effectiveness. a sharp change in the political and moral paradigm of the european union must be implemented to regain the confidence of the citizens. and so i thank the ombudsman again for her excellent work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the european ombudsman on his work and on his annual report. i do the same with my colleague mrs dalli for the in-depth report, which highlights how the relationship between citizens and the institutions has changed and how citizens are finally getting, also through complaints, into the heart of the debates on european policies, into the heart of our debates. there has been a great demand for transparency: i am thinking, for example, of the ttip negotiations and other international agreements. through the ombudsman, but also through the committee on petitions, which i would like to mention, citizens have direct access to the institutions and have thus been able to express their concerns and get answers, as in the case of conflicts of interest, for example, of former european commissioners taking up posts in the private sector. european policies have a major impact on the lives of our citizens and drive business worth millions of euros: the protection of the interests of the citizens is our priority. the credibility of the european union itself will be gained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european ombudsman is a reference point for what is called the management of conflicts on the rights of european citizens, individuals, companies and associations, who are faced with problems of maladministration by an institution of the european union. your role, madam ombudsman, is fundamental in bridging the gap between citizens and the union's institutions and it is essential that you continue to uphold the fundamental rights of european citizens by promoting good governance and a culture of lawfulness in the face of maladministration. i am glad that the report has led the institutions to adopt specific procedures for the regulated reporting of irregularities by whistle-blowers, but i think that they should be more effectively protected. however, i am convinced that more needs to be done in terms of communication with citizens and businesses, to inform about the role of the ombudsman and the possibility of lodging complaints of irregularities through her office.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the ombudsman for what you are doing to bring the european institutions closer to civil society. i would like to stress the sensitivity shown in proposing guidelines to improve the functioning of the european citizens' initiative, especially as regards the need for the commission to provide sound reasons for rejecting a popular initiative. i take advantage of the ombudsman's presence in the chamber to raise the thorny issue of so-called 'revolving door' cases, i.e. of senior officials who have left the commission to work in the private sector. these are now very frequent occurrences. i was one of the signatories of the letter to you asking you to intervene - which you did - following the appointment of former commission president barroso as a director and non-executive chairman of goldman sachs international. what steps will the commission take to ensure that it has an effective code of conduct to prevent its officials from taking up, in the private sector, roles which conflict with their previous position in the commission?
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr gui minhai was last seen on 17 october 2015 in thailand. he's been in prison in china since then without legal or consular assistance. in addition, no information on his health or whereabouts has been given to his family or to the swedish authorities. i would like to point out that he was abducted by chinese authorities while living in thailand, on his property. enforced disappearances violate a number of other fundamental human rights, as they include torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. in addition to the serious violation of human rights, we also have the violation of international law. for the second time in a year, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on human rights in china. i reiterate that the european union should only deepen its economic and trade ties if there are visible and tangible improvements in the human rights situation, which has not happened so far. the union must work to strengthen democracy, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, transparency and freedom of expression. we must not be indifferent, ladies and gentlemen, especially after these events involving gui minhai.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nine months after the european parliament's emergency resolution on the case of the missing publishers, the fate of gui minhai remains a mystery. this case brings to the fore the issue of freedom of expression in china, which has been further damaged by the latest regulations introduced in the country. the new rules on the management of foreign ngos, which are expected to come into force in january 2017, will ban all organizations that are not registered with the ministry of public security, while the law on cybersecurity, which was promulgated in early november, will only give greater legitimacy to the well-known policy of network censorship pursued by the chinese authorities. the government in beijing is using every means at its disposal to prevent the internet from being used as a channel of information and to hinder the work of international ngos. today's resolution calls on the chinese authorities to release gui minhai and to reconsider existing legislation to ensure adequate space for civil society expression.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in january five publishers critical of the chinese government vanished into thin air. the story of the hong kong bookstores began to bounce around websites around the world, arousing outrage and concern. questions about the fate of the missing booksellers are many. concerns are being raised by news of the chinese government's arrest of gui minhai, a 51-year-old swedish citizen and owner of the hong kong-based publishing house mighty current. human rights activists believe that gui minhai, who has been missing since last october, is in detention because of an unpublished book about the private life of the chinese president. all this is happening in a climate of great unease. agnes chow, one of the most active figures in the occupy movement, recorded a video message in which she asked for help from the whole world. and that is the appeal i want to make to the house again.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are about 51 000 guaraní living in brazil today, divided into three groups, the largest of which is the kaiowá, which means 'people of the forest'. they are a deeply spiritual people: for hundreds of years the guarani have traveled great distances in search of their ancestral land, seeking immortality and eternal rest. the descendants of our ancestors, in the name of development, now considered sustainable, have deprived the guarani of their land, and therefore of their reason for living, causing suicides, even among children. we must act to put an end to the unsustainable development that is being achieved through the bribery of politicians and state officials and the atrocities committed by paramilitaries. we are talking about activities financed by unscrupulous speculators and multinational companies, including european ones: anachronistic dams, intensive farming and animal husbandry, exploitation of mineral and fossil deposits are leading to the starvation deaths of hundreds of guaraní children and the extinction of our guardians of biodiversity, the first human race, the most important, the most sustainable. we hope that the high representative will demand that the countries inhabited by the indian people demarcate the lands considered to be ancestral.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european union follows closely the situation of indigenous people’s rights in brazil. together with member states’ embassies, the european union is in regular contact with the brazilian authorities, as well as with indigenous people’s representatives and civil society. the eu also implements several projects in support of indigenous people in brazil. although the brazilian constitution establishes an exemplary framework for indigenous people’s rights, and a series of measures has been taken to implement and protect those rights, access to basic social services, especially in certain parts of the country, remains problematic, as does violence in the context of land disputes. this was highlighted in the report by the un special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples on her mission to brazil. indigenous people’s rights are regularly discussed in the framework of the eu-brazil human rights dialogue, including at the last dialogue, co-chaired by the eu special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, in september 2015. the eu has called for enhanced efforts to ensure the protection of indigenous peoples, such as the guarani-kaiowá, and their representatives, and for the effective investigation of murders and other crimes against them. our cooperation on human rights will also be on the agenda of the next high-level political dialogue in brasilia on 25 november 2016, which is tomorrow. in the context of the eu’s work on human rights, the eu delegation in brazil, together with eu member states’ embassies, organises regular visits to various regions in brazil to get first-hand information on the situation of indigenous people. the last visit, in april 2016, was to campogrande, in the state of mato grosso do sul, to the guarani-kaiowá community. the eu implements several projects, to a total value of eur 2.5 million, in support of the human rights of indigenous peoples in brazil. these projects offer legal aid, education on human rights and indigenous people’s rights, access to basic social services, support for the autonomy of indigenous peoples and support to their leaders, including those of the guarani-kaiowá people. to conclude, let me assure you that the european union will continue to support indigenous people’s rights in brazil, using all the available channels in its bilateral relations with brazil.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 december 2015 ildar dadin was sentenced by a moscow court to almost three years in prison for having publicly expressed his dissent against the government. he reported last month that he was subjected to ill-treatment and beatings, and even forms of torture, by prison staff. and despite the fact that the echr took note of the request made through his lawyer and ordered the russian federation to launch an effective investigation into it, dadin was transferred to a different place and a few days ago was denied the opportunity to meet his lawyer. dadin's case is not isolated but goes alongside similar criminal proceedings opened by the russian authorities, such as the case of vladimir ionov, convicted for criticizing russia's recent policy in eastern ukraine. the european union must, of course, keep the official channels open for an inclusive and constructive dialogue with moscow and must speak with one voice, demanding full respect for international law and the rights that bind russia as a member of various international bodies.
i am very pleased that we are here today in the plenary to discuss the story of mr. dadin. i'm from the czech republic, from central europe, where there is a very open debate in the public sphere about how acceptable the russian regime is and how unacceptable it is. this particular story shows what the russian regime really is. it sets a face to all those who in the former post-communist states still worship and defend the ideas of the russian regime and the regime of mr putin. dadin is the story of how in russia, not only is freedom of assembly, freedom of speech restricted, but if you gather and express your opinions, not only is it forbidden, but you go to jail for a few more years. they'll torture you in that prison. it's really a case that shows the atrocity of the putin regime. it's good that he's here today, it's necessary to say it in our countries, where unfortunately sometimes various propaganda forces relativize putin's regime. we must do everything we can to get dadin out of prison.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ildar dadin is a russian activist, the first to be convicted for violating the rules on public demonstrations. dadin, 34, was tried in december 2015 and sentenced to two and a half years in prison. the verdict caused a great uproar. the case was then reopened after an ngo reported that the activist had been violently beaten in prison. dadin himself has reported in a letter, made public by his lawyer, that he has been subjected to violence. the case has sparked outrage not only in russia: amnesty international, human rights watch and the nobel prize for literature aleksievič have called for dadin's release and demanded an immediate investigation into the allegations of torture. this is a call which europe and the entire international community should join in. despite the joint work of the council of europe and the russian federation to reform the russian prison system, there is still a long way to go before civil rights are fully respected in this country.
in writing. ‒ since 2011, the union has allocated more than eur 500 million to jordan under bilateral cooperation programmes under the european neighbourhood policy. nevertheless, in june the european commission proposed an additional €200 million in the form of macro-financial assistance (mfa). jordan is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis, seeing a reduction in tourism, foreign investment, as well as the blockade of trade routes and various disruptions imposed by egypt regarding access to natural gas. in 2015, economic growth consequently slowed by 2,4% and unemployment reached an alarming rate of 14,6% in 2016. in addition to the economic crisis, the situation in syria has caused a large migration flow to jordan: the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against terrorism in the middle east. i am aware that these are funds from the national treasuries of the target countries, and that there is a need for controls, but i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mauriel report on macro-financial assistance to jordan. due to its geographical location, the arab country has been suffering since 2011 from the repercussions of the syrian crisis and instability in the entire region, events that have caused, in addition to the great challenges related to humanitarian aid, huge economic losses especially in the tourism sector and foreign investments. today, jordan is a host country, hosting 650,000 officially registered syrians within its borders, although jordanian authorities declare the presence of over 1.4 million refugees on its territory. these are huge numbers, especially in relation to the total population of the country, and represent a considerable challenge for the very public services that the state is now offering under completely changed conditions. the public debt reached 93,4% of gdp in 2015 and continues to rise. in this context, the european union has a duty to support economically jordan, a key partner in the middle east which is making progress in the affirmation of democratic principles and which is demonstrating a generous and meritorious commitment with its policy of welcoming refugees.
in writing. ‒ this intervention is intended to provide macro-financial assistance to jordan in the form of a loan. despite the assurances of the european commission, i believe that all the control instruments at our disposal must be put in place to ensure that the loan is used correctly and transparently. however, given jordan's commitment to the fight against isis and the fact that it is at the forefront of aid to syrian refugees, although it has not enjoyed favourable treatment from the eu as it has for turkey with much larger amounts, i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution on further macro-financial assistance to jordan mostly because the syrian conflict still impacts jordan’s economy by disrupting trade and causing an inflow of around 1.3 million refugees into the country since the beginning of the war.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis. the decline in tourism and foreign direct investment, the blockade of trade routes and the interruption of the flow of natural gas from egypt have slowed down growth, weighed on the financial situation and increased the residual financing needs. despite this context, jordan is distinguished by its reception of a considerable number of displaced persons, mostly in urban areas. this puts considerable pressure on jordanian public services, especially in the areas of health and education. in response to the crisis and to cover the residual external financing needs, the european union has already granted jordan macro-financial assistance of eur 180 million. the international community, at the major donor conference in london, has committed itself to implementing a genuine comprehensive plan of support for jordan. the pledged donations have reached 10 billion dollars. the eu must show its support for its partner, whose refugee policy deserves respect, in the face of jordan's economic difficulties. the union is committed to the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan in the medium term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of additional macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan because we are facing the biggest migration crisis of our time which requires an exponential increase in global solidarity. the burden on countries hosting large numbers of refugees needs to be alleviated. jordan is one of the countries that makes a significant contribution in terms of the size of its population, with 670,000 people living in refugee camps and 1.5 million assimilated in the country. these people need humanitarian aid now. the european union must show its support for a partner like jordan at such a critical time in the face of jordan's economic difficulties.
in writing. ‒ jordan, due to its geographical location, is one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis, with a consequent reduction in tourism, foreign investment and blocking of trade routes. to date, there are more than 650,000 syrian refugees registered in the country, all of whom are supported by the jordanian administration. in 2015, economic growth slowed by 2.4% with an unemployment rate of 14.6% in 2016. although hesitant about the use of macro-financial assistance (mfa) and the effective control of funds on the ground, given the circumstances in which jordan finds itself, i voted in favour of allocating funds from the mfa instrument.
in writing. ‒ given the many practical and human difficulties caused by the huge flow of migrants currently in my country, i can only vote in favour of the report and express my closeness and gratitude to the hashemite kingdom of jordan for its commitment to the refugees it is receiving. jordan, in fact, has not only been hit hard by the syrian crisis, which has led to the arrival of 650,000 refugees (despite unofficial sources saying that 1.4 million people have migrated to the kingdom), but, as if that were not enough, since 2011 it has been plagued by the decline in tourism and foreign direct investment. in addition, trade has been blocked and the flow of natural gas from egypt has been interrupted repeatedly. unemployment is currently 14% and debt is 93.4% of gdp. the eu will therefore make available a maximum of eur 350 million in assistance to support economic stabilisation. this fund is conditional on the adoption of structural reforms and sound public finances, including a timetable for their fulfilment. the conditions to be met are negotiated by the commission and if they are not met, the grant will be suspended or temporarily cancelled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis. since 2011, the jordanian economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been significantly affected by the turbulence in the region. despite this critical financial situation, jordan is distinguishing itself by hosting a considerable number of displaced people. i therefore think it is right that the eu should help this country with a loan to help it, at this difficult time, to rebalance its balance of payments.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries that has suffered the most from the effects of the syrian crisis due to the arrival of syrian refugees. since the beginning of the syrian crisis, the union has allocated almost eur 1.130 billion to jordan. however, the jordanian government stressed that the costs of the emergency were particularly high, due to the impact on the labour market, the tourism sector, trade and the education system. in addition, the financial support provided so far by the gulf cooperation council countries has decreased. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms the union's commitment to supporting jordan's efforts to tackle its current economic and social problems and to implement the necessary reforms. as a country covered by the european neighbourhood policy, jordan has been eligible to receive an additional round of union macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million in the form of loans. the eu macro-financial assistance shall aim to restore the sustainability of jordan's external financial situation and support the country's structural reform programme, complementing the resources already allocated under the imf agreement to cover balance of payments needs.
in writing. ‒ in view of the difficult economic and financial situation in the kingdom of jordan, aggravated by large flows of refugees fleeing the war and violence in neighbouring syria and seeking protection in the country, the european parliament decided to proceed with the rapid adoption of the eu's macro-financial assistance proposal to jordan. in particular, the regulation consists of two tranches of eur 100 million each, to be disbursed in two tranches between the end of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017, the operations of which will be managed and monitored directly by the european commission. in view of the important role jordan has played and continues to play in dealing with the syrian refugee crisis and the difficult economic situation in which its economy finds itself, i have spoken in favour of this measure being taken in relation to a country which is at the forefront of tackling, together with europe, an unprecedented migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it will give tax authorities access to anti-money laundering information in the context of the proper application of the administrative cooperation directive (acd). in particular, this amendment will seek to create greater uniformity in anti-money laundering at eu level, ensuring both access to beneficial ownership information and appropriate customer verification procedures.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which helps jordan, one of the few stable countries in the middle east that is hosting syrian refugees and fighting against isis.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most affected by the syrian and migration crises; it is a key partner in preventing the ever-increasing violence from continuing its rampage. its stability is important both for the region and for europe. the country's economy has been hit particularly in the areas of tourism, foreign investment and international and domestic trade. as a result of these factors, jordan has experienced a slowdown in economic growth and annual growth is now at 1,9% of gdp. the country is also facing a rising unemployment rate, with the official unemployment rate now at 15.8%. jordan is the second largest refugee country in the world, and there are currently more than 650,000 syrians and 58,000 iraqis officially registered in the country. finding economic and social stability is therefore important for jordan, for the region and for europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution of 24 november 2016 on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of additional macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan because since the outbreak of the conflict in syria in 2011, the union has explicitly committed itself to helping jordan to deal with the economic and social consequences of the syrian crisis, in particular the presence of a large number of syrian refugees on jordanian territory, and has increased financial support to the country, enhancing cooperation in many areas, including civil society, the electoral system, security, regional development and social and economic reforms. since the beginning of the syrian crisis, the union has allocated almost eur 1,130 billion to jordan in various forms (financial assistance under the normal bilateral cooperation programme for jordan, humanitarian aid). the eib has also made available loans amounting to eur 264 million since 2011. i welcome the right to information on the implementation of the assistance requested by the ep. by 30 june each year, the commission shall submit to the ep and the council a report on the implementation of the decision during the previous year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. jordan has shown great levels of stability amidst conflict and tension in neighbouring syria, which have had their impact in the country. jordan is suffering from lower levels of tourism and foreign direct investment, blocked trade routes and disruptions to the flow of natural gas from egypt. since the eu considers jordan an effective ally for maintaining excellent relations with the gulf countries, it is important that the eu continues supporting the country. without further ado, my vote was positive since macro-financial assistance shows signs of benefitting both the european union and jordan’s critical position in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe it is more than appropriate to grant jordan, the country most affected by the syrian crisis, macro-financial assistance of up to eur 350 million to support both its economic stabilisation and a reform programme in the country. it should also not be forgotten that jordan, along with lebanon, is the country that hosts the largest number of refugees in proportion to the number of its population and is also trying to facilitate the occupation of the syrians themselves. i also believe that it is appropriate for the commission to monitor the use of this financial assistance, assisting jordan in determining the best policy and strategies to be adopted. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis because of its geographical location. the decline in tourism and foreign direct investment revenues, the blockade of trade routes and the repeated disruptions to the flow of natural gas from egypt have slowed jordan's economic growth and placed a heavy burden on its financial situation. i believe that the european union must show solidarity with jordan in the face of its economic difficulties. in order to ensure stability in damascus and the whole region, i believe it is essential to provide adequate economic support and to continue the political and economic dialogue between the eu and jordan. the commission proposes to grant jordan a loan of 200 million for the rebalancing of its balance of payments. the committee on international trade proposes by a large majority to increase the size of the loan up to a maximum of eur 350 million. this substantial amendment was followed by a trilogue with the council and the commission. the successful outcome of the trilogue confirmed the loan of 200 million with a commitment to examine the possibility of an increase in the course of the next year, should conditions in jordan so require. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries bordering syria that is bearing the brunt of the migrant influx and the ongoing humanitarian crisis. the country is home to an estimated 1.3 million syrian refugees as of november. this extraordinary influx of migrants is putting a strain on the country's economic and social fabric. the vast majority of migrants are not housed in refugee camps but in jordanian cities. in recent months, there has been a marked deterioration in the living conditions of host communities, who no longer have access to essential goods and services such as water, electricity and sanitation. furthermore, the school system is collapsing. as the european union, we have a duty to assist jordan by providing funds to deal with the emergency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on macrofinancial assistance to jordan, which, because of its geographical location, is one of the countries most directly affected by the syrian crisis. in this difficult context, however, the country stands out for its strong policies of welcoming refugees and for recent progress at democratic level (introduction of a constitutional court and an independent electoral commission). the european union must therefore demonstrate its support for its partner by providing a medium- and long-term loan of eur 200 million (of which eur 100 million at the end of 2016 and eur 100 million in the second quarter of 2017), managed by the commission.
in writing. ‒ since 2011, the eu has allocated more than eur 500 million to jordan in bilateral cooperation programmes under the european neighbourhood policy. in addition, the commission has allocated an additional eur 600 million to address the challenge of syrian immigrants and refugees. in addition to the above amounts, the european commission proposed an additional €200 million in the form of macro-financial assistance (mfa) in june. jordan, due to its geographical location, is certainly one of the countries most affected by the syrian crisis, with a consequent reduction in tourism, foreign investment, blocking of trade routes and disruptions in access to natural gas imposed by egypt. the commission has also examined whether the measures under investigation constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. to date, there are more than 650,000 registered syrian refugees in urban centers, who are being cared for by the jordanian administration in transportation, health and education. although i am hesitant about the use of the mfa instrument and the effective control of funds on the ground, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour, giving a signal of support to the jordanian government.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this revision of the pension fund directive (iorp ii) is to remove the current prudential barriers in order to foster the creation of a single european market for private pension funds. it is therefore proposed to remove the restrictions imposed by national social security and labour legislation in order to grant these funds greater freedom of investment throughout the union, with the resulting risks and complications in terms of the security of savings and the protection of the rights of beneficiaries. the aim is therefore to encourage the further expansion of private funds to replace the public pension system, which has become unsustainable as a result of austerity policies and the effects of the crisis on public finances. to avoid the risk that people's retirement savings will be jeopardized by speculative finance, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the hayes report on the activity and supervision of occupational or business pension schemes. the text adopted defines new measures to optimise the mechanisms for saving for occupational pensions by encouraging cooperation between the member states and the social partners. the overall objective of the proposal is to facilitate retirement saving within the union by strengthening its contribution to retirement income. a key point is the establishment of clear and transparent procedures to enable pension institutions to carry out cross-border activities, while improving discipline and transparency and strengthening the internal market. the proposal increases the capacity of the european economy to channel long-term savings into growth-enhancing investments and enhances the role of epaps as institutional investors in the real economy. the text also sets out structural actions to ensure equal pension levels between women and men across the eu, and also promotes intergenerational balance in pension schemes.
in writing. ‒ the text of the hayes report analysing the proposed directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension schemes is unbalanced and not acceptable. i believe that this will open the way for new private players from foreign countries to enter our internal market, adding another piece to the dismantling of national welfare planned and orchestrated by the eu. for all these reasons i voted against this measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision because it represented a more straightforward codification of the existing legislative acts and did not add any changes in substance. this better codification is important because the issue of the national pension systems concerns many europeans due to the average age of our society.
in writing. ‒ pension systems need to be adapted across the eu to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pensions. the proposal to revise directive 2003/41/ec on the activities of epaps will ensure better discipline and transparency for institutions and an increase in their cross-border activity, strengthening the internal market. some business or professional pension funds are large financial institutions and their failure could affect financial stability. at present, cross-border occupational or occupational pension schemes are rare; however, cross-border iorps may represent a growing share of occupational and occupational pension schemes. the revision of the directive is intended to enhance the ability of epaps to invest in long-term assets and to support the financing of sustainable growth in the real economy. without an updated regulatory framework at eu level, there is a risk that member states will continue to develop different solutions, exacerbating regulatory fragmentation. the general objective of the proposal is to facilitate retirement saving, thereby strengthening the contribution of supplementary pension saving to retirement income. the proposal will also enhance epaps as institutional investors in the real economy and strengthen the capacity of the european economy to channel long-term savings into growth-enhancing investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because it encourages member states to introduce the necessary regulation at national and eu level for the secure provision of occupational or company pensions. it is important that member states pursue the objective of ensuring intergenerational balance in pension schemes and increase the protection of the rights of european citizens who are in another member state for work reasons. the report points to the need for appropriate measures to optimise savings for occupational pensions and proposes measures to support member states' cooperation with the social partners and structural actions to ensure equal pension levels between women and men across europe. the functioning of the internal market in this area needs to be improved by means of clear procedures that allow institutions to also carry out cross-border activities.
in writing. ‒ the implicit objective of the revision of the pension fund directive (iorp ii) is clearly to encourage the further expansion and profitability of private funds, so that they gradually take the place of the public pension system, which has become unsustainable due to austerity policies and the effects of the crisis on public finances. i am very concerned about the impact of the new rules on people's retirement savings, which would be highly exposed to the systemic risks of speculative finance, and i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as the demographic developments in the union and the situation of national budgets require it, i express my support for the report. in fact, occupational or business pensions are a valuable addition to the social security pension system, but they cannot replace them given their fundamental importance for the provision of adequate, secure and sustainable pension benefits. member states should ensure the social protection of workers with regard to pensions by providing public pensions enabling them to maintain a decent standard of living and to be protected from poverty in old age and by promoting supplementary pension schemes linked to employment contracts as supplementary cover. the directive is not subject to substantial amendments and aims not only to establish strict prudential rules to provide and safeguard adequate and complete information to be provided to members and beneficiaries of funds, but also to carry out cross-border activities. in future, therefore, pan-european pension funds will be possible thanks to a minimum of harmonization, which will not, however, prevent the member states from adopting additional prudential provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure as the text provides for minimum harmonisation in this area and should therefore not prevent member states from maintaining or adopting additional provisions to protect members and beneficiaries of occupational or business pension schemes, provided that such provisions are consistent with the obligations of member states under union law. the measure also addresses the issue of worker mobility between member states in a correct way, with a view to ensuring sound governance and correct information for pension scheme members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe that facilitating retirement savings of a business or professional nature contributes to improving and ensuring the security of retirement benefits. the text also provides for appropriate provisions on governance, supervision and transparency and ensures that pensioners are regularly consulted on the state of their pension systems, which could help to encourage individual member states to establish occupational or enterprise pension schemes (epaps) that citizens can trust.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report, which is another piece of the eu's dismantling of national welfare.
in writing. ‒ this is an important report as iorps (institutions for occupational retirement provision) play an important role in the long-term financing of the eu’s economies and in securing of retirement benefits. the financial importance of iorps cannot be overstated as they have holding assets worth around eur 2.5 trillion on behalf of around 75 million members and beneficiaries, a large percentage of the eu population. this directive aims to ensure that iorps need to have the possibility to operate in other member states while ensuring a high level of protection and security for their members and beneficiaries. it is important that this directive ensure that member states shall make sure that members and beneficiaries are correctly informed about their respective pension scheme operated by an iorp. this is essential so that members of pension schemes have information on, for example, their financial risks, their investment profile, guarantees for the scheme and the options available to them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (epaps) recast because i believe that in the light of demographic trends in the eu and the situation of national budgets, epaps constitute an important complement to public pension systems. for that reason, those institutions should be allowed to operate in other member states, while ensuring a high level of protection and, in particular, safety for epap scheme members. the cross-border operation of these requires a minimum of harmonisation and above all european supervisory rules, while preserving the possibility for the member states to determine their organisation, according to their different traditions and within the framework of their activities, in compliance with national law and social and labour security. i share the need for appropriate regulation and supervision at union and national level, because these activities are of fundamental importance if the rights of beneficiaries are to be protected. i also share the need for occupational or occupational pension schemes to take account of the intergenerational balance in order to ensure a fair distribution of risks and benefits in pension benefits between generations.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a favourable vote for the report on activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. the report shows a list of benefits, which include, but are not limited to: improving pension funds’ governance, increasing transparency of information, enhancing supervision of pension funds, and creating a new set of rules. all of this plays a crucial role, as it will encourage the institutions for occupational retirement provision to serve as key long-term institutional investors. on the other hand, it is important to stress that the report positively looks forward and aims at ensuring a high level of protection for future pensioners while guaranteeing efficient investment at the same time.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the recasting of this directive would allow occupational pension schemes to play a key role in the european union, as it would improve the occupational pension system, without any sex discrimination between individual eu citizens, allowing them to have a decent lifestyle even at the end of their working life. the establishment of such bodies would also help to remove cross-border barriers to allow the internal market to function better and would improve the living conditions of those who are posted to another member state for work reasons. the directive also aims to develop new prudential provisions to ensure a higher level of security for future pensioners. this directive would not override the sovereignty of the individual member states but would rather encourage them to provide for the provision of secure occupational and occupational pensions on the one hand and the facilitation of cross-border activity on the other. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of this directive is to facilitate retirement savings of a business or professional nature. the commission proposal does not contain any substantial changes to the existing legislation. it's a remake. i would like to stress, however, that in all the member states of the union it is necessary to monitor carefully the soundness of pension systems, safeguarding the acquired rights of the low and middle income groups. i voted in favour of this report. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. i voted against this revision of the pension funds directive because, instead of focusing on strengthening the regulation of the investment activities of these funds, which perform a very delicate social function, its priority is to remove the prudential barriers to social and labour protection, which today rightly restrict their cross-border activity and certain types of investment. the aim of the new directive is to promote the creation of a genuine european single market and the further expansion of these private funds, as they gradually replace the increasingly difficult public pension system, without at the same time providing adequate safeguards. we had called for measures to be introduced to prevent the life savings of a person from ending up in the zero-sum game of casino finance. our proposals have been ignored, so today pension funds remain free to operate in unregulated markets and invest in hedge funds or in risky and complex instruments such as derivatives, securitizations or subordinated bonds. it even prevents member states from introducing stricter restrictions on investment than those permitted by europe. i think it is deeply immoral and irresponsible to encourage financial speculation on a fundamental right such as the right to a pension.
in writing. ‒ the revision of this directive aims to remove the persistent prudential barriers that currently limit its crossborder activity in order to foster the creation of a genuine single european market for private pension funds, at the heart of the capital markets union project. in particular, the directive considers the restrictions imposed by national social security and labour legislation to be obstacles to be removed in order to guarantee these funds the widest possible freedom of investment throughout the european territory, with worrying risks and complications in terms of the security of savings and the adequate and effective protection of the rights of beneficiaries. the implicit objective is clearly to encourage the further expansion and profitability of private funds so that they gradually take the place of the public pension system, which has become unsustainable due to austerity policies and the effects of the crisis on public finances. for these reasons, while i have worked constructively on some important aspects of transparency obligations and the requirement to take environmental, social and governance risks into account in its investment activities, i have found it appropriate to strongly oppose this directive, because of the strong concerns it raises about the impact of the new rules on people's retirement savings.
in writing. ‒ this resolution once again expresses its utmost concern at the continuation of the conflict in syria, condemns in the strongest terms the atrocities and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law committed by forces on both sides, and therefore once again calls for an immediate cessation of the bombing and for all appropriate measures to be taken to protect civilians in accordance with international law. however, condemnation of russia's role - even taking into account possible sanctions - is not accompanied by a censure of us conduct, which, although having the same weight, is not considered at all. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ syria has been in a state of internal conflict for six years now, with violence and brutality on the order of the day. 4.8 million people have already fled the country, while the estimated number of internally displaced persons is almost nine million. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on syria because i believe it is essential to draw europe's attention once again to a dramatic situation which continues despite the repeated calls over the years for the resumption of negotiations to facilitate the conclusion of a lasting ceasefire. the text adopted condemns the atrocities committed by the assad regime, da'esh, al-nusra and other terrorist organisations; the illegal detention, torture, ill-treatment, enforced disappearance and killing of detainees in regime prisons and secret detention centres constitute outright crimes against humanity. europe must ensure that all those responsible for these violations are brought to justice and above all must intensify its efforts to finally reach a lasting political solution for syria.
in writing. ‒ the resolution does not propose any concrete solution to the conflict in syria and does not, however, analyse important aspects such as turkey's ambiguous role in this war scenario. i did not therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria because it firmly condemned the atrocities and violations of human rights and international law by assad, russia and iran, as well as by jihadist groups. in addition, it demanded, first of all, an immediate end to bombing attacks on civilians and, secondly, a resumption of the negotiations of the international syria support group in order to establish a stable truce.
in writing. ‒ the syrian civil war is becoming the most dramatic humanitarian catastrophe since the post-war era and it is on our doorstep. the priority now is to save the civilians of aleppo. the syrian regime and russia must stop the airstrikes and allow humanitarian aid to arrive. for weeks now, there has been a european plan to bring aid to the eastern part of the besieged city and to transfer the most seriously ill, but it cannot be implemented without a truce between the parties. but the path to resolving the syrian conflict cannot be limited to isolated relief interventions, however noble and important. the way out of the conflict is diplomatic. only when we have an agreement on the future of the region will the causes of war cease. we europeans were reborn on the ruins of the world war: we have been reborn thanks to a long-term project, looking to the future, giving concrete follow-up to a serious path of diplomacy and reconstruction. this is the way forward for the future of syria, to end this merciless war.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria because that country is at the centre of a humanitarian tragedy for a conflict which is, at this very moment, going through perhaps its bloodiest, most delicate and decisive phases. humanitarian organizations operating in the area have called for a complete end to the conflict, as the numbers of the humanitarian crisis have declined. i voted in favour of the mogherini statement because there is no way of solving the syrian crisis with arms alone. the military solution only causes more suffering and pain to the people. today more than ever, a diplomatic effort is needed. this option remains, in my view, the only way out of the syrian crisis and stop the horror that this war is bringing.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, while condemning all parties that may have committed human rights violations in the syrian conflict, points the finger more towards russia without mentioning the responsibilities of the other actors involved. i can't agree with phrases like this: 'whereas all parties to the conflict have committed serious violations of international humanitarian and human rights law, the most serious of which have, however, been committed by the assad regime with the support of russia.' for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ ten years ago, one of the many favourite destinations for european tourists was syria, a country where one could sense a middle eastern culture open to western influences. today, it is a land devastated by the horrors and atrocities of war. six years of conflict have resulted in over 400,000 deaths and 13 million people are living, or surviving, in a state of ongoing humanitarian crisis. my vote in favour of the resolution is sadly affected by the fact that the situation in syria remains almost unchanged, apart from the increasing number of deaths. in 2016, the number of internally displaced persons is expected to reach 8.7 million, while more than 4.3 million are believed to have escaped the state. in addition, since july 2016, humanitarian assistance has been denied access to the besieged areas and the entire area is suffering from a permanent health crisis as well as severe shortages of food and medical supplies. the resolution also calls for the eu to provide more aid to the syrian people, particularly in the form of medical supplies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure as the situation in syria continues to deteriorate, especially on the humanitarian front. the eu must therefore once again strongly condemn all attacks against civilians and the inability of humanitarian workers to reach the people in need. all parties concerned must allow unrestricted and continuous humanitarian access, including the delivery of emergency supplies.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the sensitive syrian situation because the report is too unbalanced in favor of the united states rather than russia. while the russian role is emphasized negatively, even to the point of considering possible sanctions, the us role, although having the same weight, is not analyzed at all. the polarization of the relationship therefore impairs the value of the relationship itself.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian tragedy in syria is before the eyes of all: 400,000 people have died since the conflict began, more than 13 million people have been deprived of humanitarian assistance, 4.8 million people have fled the country. the situation in aleppo is particularly dramatic, being the crossroads of clashes between rebel-held and government-besieged neighborhoods. currently, aleppo and all of syria is the scene of a permanent health crisis. the population is suffering from multiple atrocities by the government and daesh, and the country is increasingly divided between multiple fronts that do not talk to each other in view of a peaceful political transition. in this context, i can only support, by voting in favour of the resolution, the eu's efforts in syria as a mediator calling for an immediate end to the bombing and indiscriminate attacks against civilians and facilitating the delivery of humanitarian aid to civilians trapped by the conflict. finally, in the near future, the eu could play a decisive role in the process of releasing all arbitrarily detained persons and bringing to international justice all those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ this new resolution on the syrian issue, following the one already adopted during last month's session, is necessary because of the latest developments which have contributed to the deterioration of the situation in the country. the text is intended to reiterate parliament's position. in particular, it condemns all the atrocities committed during the conflict; the european union is also calling on the international community not to abandon its commitments to support syrian civilians, who are in a very serious state of emergency, and to highlight the need for a more proactive role for the european union in a conflict whose resolution can only be political, as high representative federica mogherini has said. i have strongly supported the resolution in the hope that a diplomatic and peaceful solution will be found as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the situation in syria, while broadly agreeable in its intentions and content, appears to be unbalanced in the selection of those responsible for condemnation. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the attacks on civilians and humanitarian workers in syria and, at the same time, stresses the need for an urgent international solution to end the conflict in the country.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report, because it does not propose anything new and concrete to end the conflict in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament on the situation in syria because i consider it unacceptable to perpetrate the violent attacks which the syrian people are suffering, particularly in the towns of aleppo and zabadani, which are under assault from rebel groups, from the continuing russian attacks from above and from the raids by assad's armed forces. i am appalled and horrified by the images of violence and torture to which thousands of children, women and men are subjected every day, and i hope that those responsible for the continuing violations of international humanitarian law will be identified as soon as possible. i am firmly convinced that there can be no other solution to the conflict through violence and that it is essential to stop the firefight and to resume negotiations through specific diplomatic action. i fully support the work of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, whose aim is to bring the parties to the conflict back to the negotiating table and to relaunch the geneva political process. i hope that the eu will not limit itself to mediating but will soon be actively involved in providing humanitarian aid to the people who are suffering from severe shortages of food and basic medical supplies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must intervene to stabilise syria and the whole region, without renouncing its call for the cessation of the armed conflict and the respect of humanitarian obligations required by international law. when we talk about syria, we are faced with a debate which is emblematic not only for the foreign policy of our union but also for its projection in a broader sense, also on our national communities. the eu has already mobilised internationally for a peaceful resolution of the conflict, for diplomatic mediation between the parties, for economic support to the country and to try to get humanitarian assistance to the people in the worst affected areas as soon as possible, in line with its obligations to the united nations. the consequences of this conflict, however, have a direct impact on the union's ability to react at home, and they are calling into question the foundations of the common project for the continent. today's discussion is of greater significance not only for the future of syria but also for the shared choices we will make at the level of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of motion b8-1250/2016 because i believe that the european union should condemn the atrocities that are taking place in syria, where in six years of conflict we have seen 400 000 deaths, while 13 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance. the epicenter of the conflict is aleppo, which is under constant bombardment by enemy forces, but the worst aspect is that since july 2016 it is no longer possible to access the eastern part of aleppo to provide humanitarian aid, as it is under siege. the syrian people are currently suffering atrocities from various armed groups, not only from assad, with the support of russia and iran, but also from other terrorist groups such as da'esh, jabhat fateh al-sham/front al-nusra and other jihadist groups, who have been responsible for the violation of human rights and international community law. the european union cannot and must not stand by and watch, it must protect the rights it claims to protect and condemn the terrorist groups that violate them. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in syria is continuing to deteriorate. six years of conflict have left over 400,000 people dead and more than 10 million displaced. the bombing of densely populated areas, particularly aleppo, the deliberate attacks on civilian infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and refugee camps, the sieges of numerous cities and arbitrary detentions, torture and enforced disappearances continue unabated. all serious violations of international humanitarian law, committed by both the assad regime and daesh, jabhat fateh al-sham, al qaeda affiliate in syria, and other jihadist groups. the destruction of essential water and electricity infrastructure has caused a permanent health crisis, with nearly six million children in urgent need of life-saving assistance. i join in the strong condemnation of all violations of human rights and international humanitarian law and the call for a definitive cessation of hostilities and bombing, the immediate release of all arbitrarily detained persons and the guarantee of access for humanitarian organisations. i also support the initiative of high representative mogherini to bring the parties back to the negotiating table to find a final diplomatic solution to the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation in syria. i believe that the european union cannot and must not remain silent in the face of the ongoing massacre. on the contrary, the european union must act collectively through the high representative and take the lead in international efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the syrian civil war.
in writing. ‒ this resolution condemns the disproportionate repressive measures implemented in turkey after the failed military coup attempt in july 2016, but rather than proceed with a formal breakdown of negotiations, the blocking of the disbursement of european pre-accession funds and the cancellation of the migrants agreement, calls on the commission and the member states to proceed only with a temporary suspension of the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ following the failed coup in turkey, the government of the country declared a state of emergency and initiated a series of repressive measures aimed at prosecuting those responsible for the coup attempt. the international community has seen how the government's policy has resulted in particularly disproportionate actions, in real violations of those fundamental rights and freedoms, protected by the turkish constitution, which are also the founding values of the european union. i voted in favour of the resolution tabled in parliament today because i share the need to ask the commission and the member states to temporarily suspend the accession negotiations with turkey, as provided for in article 5 of the negotiating framework. the introduction of the death penalty and the serious and persistent violations of the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights cannot be ignored. the text commits parliament to reviewing its position if the disproportionate measures taken in the context of the state of emergency in the country are revoked.
in writing. ‒ the resolution rightly condemns president erdogan's decision to reinstate the death penalty in turkey, as it is clearly contrary to the eu acquis and to respect for human rights. i would therefore have expected that this text would have called for the immediate suspension of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the union. in the absence of the text of this clear statement, i could not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this important resolution on the eu-turkey relations bearing in mind the recent political developments that led to the arrest of many opponents to the turkish government. in this regard, we strongly condemn the disproportionate repressive measures taken by erdoğan and we call on the commission and the member states to initiate a temporary freeze of the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey.
in writing. ‒ we are concerned about turkey because it has not yet succeeded in defining an adequate economic strategy to keep public finances under control, curb inflation and stabilise the currency, while ensuring sustainable economic growth, but above all the human rights situation is worrying as the democratization process in the country has made vigorous steps backwards in the last two years. turkey is a country farther from the european union today than it was a decade ago: the european union is not only a political, economic and social union, but also a political, cultural and religious union. until the government in ankara starts seriously respecting freedom of thought, expression and religion, protecting minorities and not persecuting political dissidents, there will be no chance for turkey to join the european union. the eu - let us never forget this - is first and foremost a community of freedom, respect for individual rights, democracy, solidarity and progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-turkey relations because our concerns about the internal situation in turkey remain. disturbing episodes such as the arrest of opposition mps, the indiscriminate closure of newspapers, the project to reintroduce the death penalty in the judicial system, and finally, the bill to decriminalize sexual abuse against minors (temporarily withdrawn due to the vibrant protests), are causing consternation inside and outside the country. i am voting for the declaration because it is now clear that for the eu, respect for human rights from a practical point of view remains vital for the functioning of the current eu-turkey agreement on migration flows. it is more necessary than ever that the european union continue to work to ensure that european standards of democracy are guaranteed without compromise.
in writing. ‒ democracy in turkey no longer exists and this is a fact that we must take into account and react accordingly. the abstention of the five star europe movement from the resolution on the temporary freeze of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union is a very first step towards the recognition of the failure to meet the criteria necessary for the negotiations, but more needs to be done. we are calling for the formal suspension of the negotiations, the freezing of european pre-accession funds and the cancellation of the agreement on migration signed with erdogan.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the resolution in its content: i am not saying that the turkish government should not be involved in the peace process, but that it should be involved in the peace process. i certainly recognize turkey's legitimate responsibility to punish those who have dared to plot against its political establishment, but repressive measures, disproportionate use of force and political arrests are not acceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. therefore, in line with the ppe's position, i call for the suspension of access to the negotiations until the turkish government returns to the path of respect for the rule of law and human rights. in addition, a temporary suspension of funds could be considered without diminishing support for refugees and migrants. in parallel with this, it is considered that turkey is not ready for visa liberalisation as it is not meeting 7 out of 72 required requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that it is necessary for the legitimate turkish government authorities to ensure respect for human rights, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and the universal right to a fair trial within turkey in a manner consistent with the values on which the eu is founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission and the member states to temporarily suspend the accession negotiations with turkey. although i consider turkey to be a key strategic partner for europe and although the reaction of the turkish authorities to the coup is legitimate, i am convinced that the scale of the repressive measures taken since july is disproportionate and violates the freedom of expression recognized by the european convention on human rights, to which turkey is a signatory. i am particularly concerned about the statements in favour of reintroducing the death penalty in turkey and i believe that such a step is not justified by the emergency situation and may even represent a dangerous authoritarian drift for turkish civil society and for the geopolitical balances in the region. in line with the resolution, i believe that the eu should only review its position when turkey lifts the state of emergency and restores the rule of law and human rights throughout the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report, i have always been against turkey's accession to europe and this report seems weak.
in writing. ‒ the news of the last few days, including the arrest of national parliamentarians for political reasons and the police raids on as many as thirty municipalities in the kurdish-majority territories, do not give us much hope that the turkish authorities will be able to guarantee the normal conduct of political life in that country. the slide in respect for human rights in reaction to the attempted coup d'état in july does not seem to be stopping. we are therefore faced today with a necessary and inevitable debate which cannot but have an impact on the mutual relations between the union and turkey. i think that the dialogue must remain open: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. if we cut off relations we will no longer have a say in the international political life of this country. dialogue with the turkish authorities is the only way to continue to denounce the attack on freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the free exercise of civil and political rights against the people of turkey. so yes to dialogue, but that is not why we have not stopped calling on our turkish partners to restore democracy and release political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of the proposal because i believe that the turkish government has taken repressive measures which violate the fundamental human rights protected by the turkish constitution and the democratic values on which the european union and the iccpr are founded and detain in a worrying situation those who were arrested during the coup. however, i am certain that despite the serious conduct of the turkish government, the european union must consider increasing its support for turkish civil society and offering additional judicial assistance to the turkish authorities. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the repressive measures implemented by the turkish government in the context of the state of emergency declared following the failed coup are disproportionate and violate the fundamental rights and freedoms protected by the turkish constitution and the democratic values on which the european union is founded. the arrest of opposition parliamentarians, journalists, judges and prosecutors are just some of the most serious examples of such violations. similarly, erdogan's statements on the reintroduction of the death penalty and the severe restrictions imposed on freedom of expression, the press and the turkish media, put turkey in a position objectively incompatible with its forthcoming accession to the union. for these reasons, i share the report's call for the commission to suspend the negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu, making full respect for the principles of liberty, democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms on which the union is founded a condition for their resumption. i remain convinced that turkey is an important partner for europe and that its future lies in membership of the common european home. the policy pursued by erdogan in recent months, however, is unfortunately going in a completely different direction.
in writing. ‒ the situation in turkey is quite complex and worrying. since the coup attempt a few months ago, we have seen a dangerous advance towards an increasingly authoritarian form of state and democracy appears to be in danger. this is unacceptable for a country which has ambitions to join the european union. in turkey, more than 140,000 people have been arrested in the last few months alone, and 11 members of the kurdish hdp party have been jailed. a democratic turkey that puts respect for human rights at the top of its agenda would be a key ally for the european union in a complicated scenario such as the middle east. unfortunately, we are far from achieving this goal. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which states that all the conditions exist for a temporary freeze in the talks on turkey's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure freezing the negotiations between the european union and turkey. i believe that we cannot remain indifferent to turkey's continuing violations of fundamental rights and the basic norms guaranteeing the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ this resolution welcomes the commission's proposal to sign and conclude the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, as this will provide a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence, and will put further political pressure on member states to ratify the instrument as well. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ gender-based violence is an extreme form of discrimination, a violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of victims, which is both a cause and a consequence of further inequalities. violence does not only cause physical, sexual, emotional, or psychological harm but also has a profound impact on family members and on society as a whole. i strongly supported the resolution tabled in parliament today because i consider the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women to be an important step. the text adopted calls on the council and the commission to speed up the negotiations for the signing and conclusion of the convention, and calls on all member states which have not yet done so to ratify the treaty as soon as possible and to ensure its proper implementation. no single intervention can eliminate violence against women and gender-based violence, which is why a set of infrastructural, legal, judicial, cultural and social actions are needed to break the vicious circle of silence and loneliness, helping victims and raising awareness in society. europe can do a lot in this direction.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women is a very important text, which entered into force in 2014, and the resolutions presented explain its contents well. i therefore voted in favour of these texts.
in writing. ‒ violence against women and gender-based violence is still widespread in the eu: in europe, one in three women has experienced physical or sexual violence at least once in her adult life. in line with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights, the eu has made gender equality and the right to non-discrimination core values of the community system. in this resolution, which i support, parliament calls for the eu to accede to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. as the first legally binding instrument, the convention defines violence against women as a violation of human rights and a form of severe discrimination. eu accession will help to establish a coherent european legal framework, through zero-tolerance criminal law rules on violence against women applicable in all its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the eu accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women because even if they would vote it, they would never fully respect it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women because it is necessary to reinvigorate the commitment to overcome, prevent and defeat all forms of violence and harassment against women in all areas of personal, family and social life, including the workplace. i voted in favour because we now need a concerted effort at the cultural level to abandon sexist and offensive attitudes towards women and to educate all citizens to respect every person. the eu's accession to the convention is necessary to ensure greater efficiency and coherence of its policies to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ in the run-up to the international day for the elimination of violence against women, the commission on women's rights and the european parliament decided to address an oral question to the commission and the council to ask about the state of play of the negotiations for the eu's signature and ratification of the istanbul convention. the latter is a council of europe convention against violence against women and domestic violence which was approved on 7 april 2011 with the aim of preventing violence, protecting victims and preventing impunity for perpetrators. to date, 32 countries, including italy, have signed the convention, but only 14 have ratified it. since it is the first international document binding on states to define a social definition of gender, which is outside the context and purpose of the convention itself, many states are reluctant to ratify it because, being legally binding, its ratification would automatically entail the extension of that definition to their national legislation. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i symbolically welcome the union's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and i also hope that it will be ratified as soon as possible by the member states to ensure that the provisions are fully implemented. in parallel, it is called for adequate financial and human resources to be allocated to preventing and combating gender-based violence. it is unacceptable that our civilization can still admit or conceal such human tragedies. in this context, i welcome the decision to establish a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and to protect victims of violence by increasing the coherence and efficiency of internal and external policies and by collecting comparable and disaggregated data on the subject. the fear and loneliness that often afflict victims of violence prevent the word to end devastating phenomena, so it is essential to implement maximum efforts to disseminate information about the convention, eu programmes and related funding available. it takes one hand to save a life or change a fate, but it has to be the right one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because, on the eve of the international day against violence against women, the european parliament notes that little progress has been made in combating this phenomenon. it is therefore necessary to accelerate the eu's accession to the istanbul convention which will ensure a coherent european legal framework and also ensure greater efficiency of the union's internal and external policies by ensuring a more adequate and detailed collection of comparable and disaggregated data on violence against women and gender-based violence at eu level, thus also strengthening its accountability at international level.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention is a council of europe convention against violence against women and domestic violence. it was approved on 7 april 2011 with the aim of preventing violence, protecting victims and preventing impunity for perpetrators. the signatory states therefore undertake to adopt a series of legislative measures and not to combat the phenomenon of violence. to date, 32 countries have signed it, including italy. however, several countries are reluctant to ratify the convention, in particular because ratification would automatically entail the extension of this definition to their national legislation. the oral question seeks to clarify the state of play of the negotiations and the procedure, what steps are envisaged to tackle gender-based violence in practice, whether the procedure can be accelerated to achieve ratification more quickly and whether the so-called 'passerelle clause' can be activated to give a transnational dimension to gender-based violence and thus allow for a tightening up of penalties in this area. i think that is more than enough to show my full support and therefore justify my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ violence against women is unfortunately still a scourge of society. it is a form of discrimination and a violation of women's fundamental rights and freedoms. one form of violence that must be fought is domestic violence, which often goes unreported. i voted in favour of the european union's accession to the istanbul convention because i believe that gender equality is a core value of the eu and that we must never let our guard down when we are dealing with this issue.
in writing. ‒ every human being has the right to live free from violence in the public and private spheres, which is still widespread in the eu against women, the main victims of gender-based violence. a comprehensive and integrated framework aimed at combating such forms of violence cannot be achieved without the adoption of legislative and other measures relating to the prevention, detection of criminal offences and protection and support for victims. measures to promote socio-cultural campaigns aimed at eliminating prejudices and customs which favour or justify the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms against women play a key role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following motion for a resolution. i welcome the possibility of individual member states transposing the provisions of the istanbul convention into national law. i also believe that measures to prevent and combat violence against women, including domestic violence, should be implemented in the national legislation of each member state and in its criminal code.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution: i support the fight against violence against women and this text is a help in that direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the joint resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women because the fight to end this horrific phenomenon is increasingly taking on a european dimension and the eu must act forcefully to stop the different forms of violence. the latest figures on the phenomenon of femicide in italy, more than a year after the national law was passed, are shocking and show how violence against women is a very difficult phenomenon to eradicate. domestic violence, violence for sentimental reasons, violence related to slavery, violence against migrant women: 2016 leaves us with images and stories that we would like to erase soon. the eu's accession to the istanbul convention would accelerate the process of ratifying the first binding international instrument against violence against women, currently stalled by 14 member states, by enshrining for the whole of the eu the principle that domestic violence is not a private matter but a heinous crime. finally, i strongly support the s&d group's call for a european directive on gender-based violence, which would solve the problem of sanctions for those states which violate the convention by failing to comply with its obligations.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of the proposal as i believe that women's rights should be protected and equal rights recognised, as it is stated both in the community treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights that gender equality is a core value of the eu; another of its key principles is non-discrimination. unfortunately, violence against women is still a widespread phenomenon within the european union, and the eu must therefore become a champion of women's rights and fight against such crimes by ensuring greater controls to protect women. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, which is also a signatory, supports the commission in this resolution and calls on the council to complete the eu accession process to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women as soon as possible. it is not a formal act: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of women are respected and that they are protected. a few weeks ago i was in calabria, supporting a young woman forced to grow up fast on bread, prejudice and fear. to support a 16-year-old girl who was gang raped by nine boys since she was 13, in the silence of the community. violence is not a private matter, but an evil to be eradicated, even when, as in most cases, it occurs within the family. to win this battle we need everyone, institutions, men and women, and with this accession the eu would be taking a fundamental step forward. parliament supports this position by a very large majority, and we hope that the council will also reach agreement on this as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat violence against women and girls, and calls for the eu to take action to combat violence against women and girls. it should be remembered that all 28 member states have signed the council of europe's istanbul convention and that 14 member states have ratified that convention. eu accession will ensure greater coherence and efficiency of the union's internal and external policies, and better monitoring, interpretation and implementation of eu legislation, programmes and funds relating to the convention.
in writing. ‒ this report analyses the activities of the european ombudsman, emily oreally, during 2015. overall, the approach is satisfactory, particularly where the contribution of the european ombudsman to the handling of cases of maladministration reported by citizens in relation to the work of the union institutions and bodies is emphasised, as are the steps taken to strengthen the transparency of the institutions in order to ensure good administration in general. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the marias report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the text endorses the report presented to parliament by the ombudsman, mr o'reilly, and commends the excellent work done and the commitment shown by the european administration to improving the quality of services offered to citizens. in the last year, complaints about transparency have been particularly frequent, a fact which underlines that this issue is a central element for citizens and an indicator of good administration. this is the case with the so-called revolving doors, where eu officials have found themselves in private sector jobs, within their remit, immediately after leaving their previous institutional posts. these are worrying developments which require additional vigilance, both because of possible conflicts of interest and because of the risks to the overall credibility of the institutions, this is the case with the recent appointment of mr barroso as non-executive chairman of the merchant bank goldman sachs international. parliament also stressed the importance of greater transparency in the ecb, particularly as a member of the troika, and in the commission's expert groups.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman is one of the few existing means of control available to european citizens vis-à-vis the european institutions. i believe that the european ombudsman cooperates positively with other bodies that work in the member states to defend citizens, such as the european network of ombudsmen and the committees on petitions, and that his work has so far produced good results. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on activities of the european ombudsman in 2015 because i think emily o' reilly did a great job improving the quality of service offered to european citizens. moreover, i welcomed the efforts made in order to increase transparency of the recent negotiations of trade agreements by approving this resolution. in short, i believe the commission and the member states should empower the european ombudsman by recognising the need for transparency in the eu decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman deals with cases of maladministration in the action of the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies to the detriment of european citizens. in 2015, the european ombudsman's office assisted 17,033 european citizens, offering advice on 13,966 of these cases (81,99%) through the interactive guide available on the european ombudsman's website; 2,077 cases (12.19%) were treated as complaints and 1,060 cases (6.22%) were requests for information to which the european ombudsman's services provided a response. the number of citizens assisted in 2015 was significantly lower than in the previous year (23,072 in 2014, a decrease of 26,17%); the number of complaints remained unchanged but the proportion of complaints to the total number of cases was higher in 2015 (12,19%) than in 2014 (9,01%). overall, it is an active institution, offering a useful service to the public, but it is still little known. it is important to support its work both in the area of transparency of the various eu institutions which take decisions which have an impact on european citizens and in the dissemination of correct knowledge and information on legislation and citizens' rights.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which reports on the activities of the european ombudsman over the past year. the ombudsman is an indispensable figure because, in addition to serving the public interest, he provides significant support to the eu institutions in order to improve the quality of the services they provide. the close cooperation with the eu institutions over the past year has helped to strengthen cohesion and cooperation at the administrative level. the report highlights the efforts made to increase the transparency of the negotiations (many of the proposals addressed to the commission on ttip and ceta) and of lobbying activities. the ombudsman also put forward some proposals to improve the european citizens' initiative (eci) in order to make it more effective by facilitating citizens' participation in eu policy-making.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman's annual activity report highlights the ombudsman's contribution in a correct way with regard to cases of maladministration concerning the action of the union institutions and bodies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ the work done by emiliy o'reilly is excellent to say the least, and i therefore vote in favour of the report on the ombudsman's work. this figure is responsible for investigating complaints about maladministration by the eu institutions or other bodies. complaints may be lodged by citizens or residents of the union countries or by associations or companies established in europe. this is a crucial role, especially at a time of strong anti-europeanism, to build trust and ensure good administration, as is shown by the high percentage of complaints relating to transparency (22.4%). the ombudsman's continued efforts to improve the transparency of the ttip negotiations by publishing numerous documents on the subject are not at all surprising but rather welcome. similarly, the much-awaited publication by the ecb of the lists of executive board members' meetings, or the desire for a less lenient approach to what happens during eurogroup meetings, requires more than a mere quotation. steps towards a system that is clearer and more accessible to citizens were therefore opened up to citizens by the ombudsman in line with the objective of implementing the transparency set by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the excellent work done by the european ombudsman in 2015. the mandate of the european ombudsman is contained in article 228 tfeu and concerns the receipt of complaints concerning instances of maladministration in the eu institutions. this mandate enabled the ombudsman to assist in 2015 in some 17 000 cases, 14 000 of which were handled through the interactive guide provided on the ombudsman's website, 2 000 cases were treated as complaints and 1 000 were requests for information. the ombudsman's main focuses and inquiries were on requests for information and access to documents, institutional matters and policy issues pursued by the commission. the role of the european ombudsman, in the current geopolitical context, appears essential to bring citizens closer to the institutions and to meet the growing demand for transparency.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman is a figure who acts as an intermediary between individuals, associations and european institutions. in a complex context such as the european institutions, it is important to have a body to which individuals, companies and associations can turn in the event of problems of maladministration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015, because it provides comprehensive and interesting data on the work, initiatives and concrete actions of the european ombudsman, whose tasks are carried out through advice and assistance directed to european citizens. i believe that the role of the european ombudsman is necessary for the implementation of transparency in decision-making at european level.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report: i agree with the call for greater transparency from the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015 and i express my great satisfaction with the work of the european ombudsman emily o'reilly because i consider it of fundamental importance for improving relations between citizens and the european institutions. i believe that the role of the european ombudsman can be a direct and effective channel of contact between citizens and the institutions, giving everyone the opportunity to point out any inadequacies or opacity. in 2015, for example, the european ombudsman dealt closely with a number of issues such as the secrecy of the ttip negotiations, the transparency of lobbying and the major issue of conflicts of interest between members of parliament and the commission. i am firmly convinced that the role of the european ombudsman will be even more important in the future, precisely because of the role he plays as a liaison between the european communities and the european institutions, so that democratic control by the citizens can be increased, even if indirectly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. positively supporting the report means encouraging the ombudsman to continue her noticeable efforts to improve the quality of service offered to citizens by the different european organizations. in addition, supporting the report means that we all believe in the importance of transparency, cooperation and negotiation, and good administration in order to both provide stability in the member states and safeguard the trust of european citizens. transparency, however, is one of the most important terms because, when combined with a full access to documents by eu institutions, it will comply with the bloc’s core value of allowing citizens to exercise their democratic rights.
in writing. ‒ i would abstain from voting on my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the european ombudsman is a very important figure in helping individuals, companies and associations. this figure also solved problems of maladministration for which the european union was responsible, assisting 17,033 european citizens in 2015 by providing advice on 13,966 of these cases, so it also improves the quality of services offered by the european union. the european ombudsman also has a role in assisting the european union with its institutions. at the same time, however, because of the dangerous situations in the member states of the european union, it may be unwise to facilitate public access to parliament, commission and council documents. therefore i would abstain.
in writing. ‒ the right to complain to the european ombudsman is one of the fundamental rights conferred on citizens of the member states by eu citizenship. the ombudsman helps individuals, companies and associations who are victims of maladministration by an eu institution. the european ombudsman serves the public interest by helping the eu institutions to improve the quality of the services they provide, by conducting inquiries into complaints received and, in some cases, by conducting inquiries on his own initiative. if an eu institution, body, office or agency is unable to respond satisfactorily to a draft recommendation, the ombudsman may draw up and send a special report to the european parliament. the special report is the ombudsman's tool of last resort and is the last step in the ombudsman's handling of a complaint case. i therefore believe that the role of this body is of great importance in ensuring greater transparency in the decisions taken by the various eu institutions and bodies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ at a time when the very idea of the european union is under attack by populists, transparency and good administration are becoming even more fundamental in the eyes of european citizens. only an efficient administration that is able not only to protect but also to strengthen the rights of european citizens can act as a buffer against the advances of forces that oppose the development of our union. the european ombudsman, who is unfortunately still little known to the vast majority of citizens, is and must increasingly be the first line of defence against irregular or unlawful actions by any eu institution. i think the work we did in 2015 was good. i call on the commission to promote the role of the european ombudsman more and more among the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ombudsman's activities in 2015. the good work done by the european ombudsman emily o'reilly in 2015 needs to be highlighted and for this reason i believe it is appropriate to extend the mandate of the ombudsman, who is a key figure in bringing europe closer to citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to reform the vat system by proposing the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services, replacing the current country of origin principle, which has not proved sufficiently effective in adequately protecting competition and preventing fraud. this new system is also being extended to crossborder operations. while it contains some positive proposals, some critical points remain, such as the harmonization and total convergence of systems which are not compatible with the values of social justice and equity, sustainable growth and development. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the vat rules currently in force date back to 1993 and constitute a system originally conceived as a transitional system which should therefore be subject to amendments in order to complete the common vat system. in europe, the annual revenue from this tax is about eur 1 000 billion, equivalent to 7% of the continent's gdp. i voted in favour of the langen report because i believe that we need to update the rules quickly, not only to meet the needs of growing businesses and e-commerce, but above all to reduce the number of fraud and frauds that occur every year. the text provides for a reduction in the number of products exempt from vat, simplification of the rules, the application of the lowest possible rate and the introduction of a system of payment of vat based on payment in the country of final destination of the goods or services. the commission is also invited to study carefully the consequences of the reverse accounting mechanism, to verify that this procedure actually reduces tax fraud and really simplifies the situation for smes.
in writing. ‒ the text of the langen report analysing the own-initiative report on possible developments in vat regulation does not convince me because it presents steps which could open up strong future criticisms. that is why i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the establishment of a valued added tax system and for strengthening the fight against vat fraud by endorsing this resolution. as a matter of fact, the commission will propose a vat system by 2017 and in the resolution we stressed the need to have it less susceptible to fraud. in this regard, we urged the commission to amend the vat directive with the aim of achieving further harmonisation between member states’ systems.
in writing. ‒ value added tax in the eu is a significant source of revenue; but your current system is vulnerable to fraud. the requirement of unanimity among member states is, however, an obstacle to reform of the vat system. in its action plan, the commission will present a legislative proposal for a definitive vat system based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination; the european union is not a country of origin. it will also put forward a proposal to modernise vat on cross-border trade and to give member states more freedom, freeing the eu from unnecessary litigation. in general, the commission is satisfied with proposals for enhanced cooperation and hopes for greater trust between tax administrations. a lasting vat system could be the extension of the reverse charge mechanism to the whole of the eu and to all transactions between businesses. it makes the collection and refund of the upstream tax superfluous, reduces distortions of competition and provides entrepreneurs with enormous relief from financing and administrative burdens. the commission's reservations about the use of this mechanism are therefore incomprehensible. it has already proved effective in certain sectors which are particularly vulnerable to fraud in certain member states.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on 'towards a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud', as i believe that it contains a number of proposals and points of order which can inspire and encourage improvements to the current vat system, as announced by the commission in its communication of 7 april. as is well known, the harmful effects of distortions in the field of vat are reflected negatively on the basic principles of the union, if one considers the effects on free competition, on the correct supply of eu financial resources, on small and medium-sized enterprises, creating a distorted tax environment. these distortions are combined, with a multiplier effect, with those of tax avoidance and evasion, tax ruling, vulnerability to vat fraud. the first thing to be tackled vigorously is the phenomenon of carousel fraud, the financial lifeblood of criminal activities, which exploit the differences in information between the various member states and generate up to eur 53 billion in vat revenue lost each year.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's intention to propose a definitive vat system by 2017, provided that it is as simple, fair, robust, efficient and fraud-proof as possible. the revenue generated by vat revenue amounted to eur 1 billion in 2014, but the system is vulnerable in many respects and, at the same time, requires fewer exemptions and derogations from member states for its proper functioning to be feasible. unanimity will therefore be a necessary prerequisite for a more functional agreement. the final system is based on the principle of taxation in the country of final destination of goods and it will be up to the authorities of the individual states to ensure that vat is paid in a simple and sme-friendly manner. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the taxation of savings income. finally, i support the commission's proposal to review regularly the list of goods and services eligible for reduced rates, provided that the list takes account of political priorities such as social, gender, health, environmental, nutritional and cultural aspects.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax fraud is one of the main challenges facing the member states; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: not only that: the protection of the financial interests of the union is a key element in strengthening and increasing citizens' confidence. the idea of a new vat action plan is therefore fundamental to the achievement of a deeper and fairer internal market so as to achieve even more effectively tax justice, employment, investment and competitiveness. the european parliament has therefore made specific demands: take measures to strengthen the effectiveness of vat systems to ensure better compliance with vat rules; to minimise unnecessary administrative burdens, in particular for smes; introduce a vat-free threshold to help start-ups and micro-enterprises; extend the single electronic procedure for the registration and payment of vat to cross-border online sales. growth can start here too!
in writing. - i shall abstain on that point. the report proposes positive developments in this area, thanks also to the amendments we have tabled and included, concerning greater transparency, but unfortunately it has not been able to respond adequately to other problems in this area. for example: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the amount of vat collected is almost eur 1 trillion in 2014 and is one of the main sources of revenue in the eu. it represents about 7% of the union's gdp and provides part of the european union's own resources. from the outset, the current vat system has been vulnerable to fraud and is now largely obsolete. despite numerous initiatives to remedy this, the problem remains, and the commission considers that fraud is responsible for a total 'vat gap' of around €170 billion per year, of which at least €50 billion is due to cross-border fraud. we have fought two important battles on this in the dossiers. the first concerns the further simplification of business operations for smes by harmonising tax policies at european level. the second concerns the promotion of alternative models to the reverse charge mechanism in order to ensure more serious and rigorous policies to combat evasion. since both these two objectives have been achieved in the final text, i am voting in favour of these texts, in order to make a major change in this direction towards a more united europe.
in writing. ‒ vat is a consumption tax charged to the final consumer and should not be imposed on businesses as much as possible. the european commission estimates, however, that fraud caused by the various vat levies amounts to some eur 170 billion per year. i believe that a definitive vat system is also necessary because of the competitive disadvantage represented by non-community companies which are exempt from vat on imports of small consignments. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report despite some positive and agreeable points; i do not, however, share the view that the reform of the vat system should be accelerated, especially if it is geared towards european harmonization.
in writing. ‒ eur 170 billion: the eu's gdp is estimated at 7% of the eu's gdp, just below that of a member country such as romania or the czech republic. this is the enormous value of the 'vat gap', or the evasion of value added tax in europe. of these 170 billion, between 45 and 53 billion are attributable to intra-community fraud, the so-called 'carousel fraud', while another 40 to 60 billion are directly attributable to the action of organised criminal groups. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. it is now some 23 years since the vat directive was introduced in europe - a directive which was supposed to be purely provisional. the commission's initiative brings a long wait to an end. in the words of the commission, the system should be 'simple, fair, robust, efficient and less vulnerable to fraud'. the proposal specifically abandons the country of origin principle, i.e. the rule whereby the supplier of goods collects vat from the customer only within the country of origin, leaving ample scope for cross-border fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the ec periodic report 'towards a vat system and the fight against vat fraud' because i believe that the time has come for the member states to give serious thought to the functioning of the current transitional vat system which came into force with the internal market in 1993, in order to develop a definitive system capable of overcoming the shortcomings of the current system, which has generated intra-community fraud and vat evasion for an estimated revenue of between 45 and 53 billion per year and puts an end to the system of derogations which have fuelled fraud and evasion. i therefore shared the ep's call on the member states to facilitate the exchange of information with judicial and law enforcement authorities such as europol and olaf, as recommended by the european court of auditors. finally, i agree with the commission that the vat system must be based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services, just as i believe that the single european vat action plan is necessary, which can support a deeper and fairer single market, which helps to encourage tax fairness, sustainable consumption, growth, investment and fair competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on towards a definitive vat system and fighting vat fraud as its proposals show signs of strengthening cooperation, increasing mutual trust among tax administrations, and decreasing distortion of competition. supporting the report means that a wide economic burden would be lifted off companies and accounting would become an easier process. on the other hand, the report also emphasizes that companies will not have to be responsible for a ‘pre-finance prior to vat charges’ and finally, that cases of non-payment of vat because of insolvency can be greatly avoided.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of the proposal because i believe that the value added tax system, which has been in force in the european union since 1993, has always been considered a transitional system. the council is required to adopt a directive designed to complete the common system of vat and to phase out the derogations from it. in addition, the current tax system is proving vulnerable to fraud, with the commission estimating that the 'vat gap' due to fraud is €170 billion to date. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ value added tax is a major and growing source of revenue in the european union, with revenues of almost €1 trillion in 2014. it is equivalent to about 7% of european gdp and generates part of the union's own resources. however, commission studies show that each year some €170 billion is lost to fraud, of which at least €50 billion is lost in crossborder trade. the eu's vat system, in force since 1993, was designed as a transitional system and has proved inadequate in combating fraud. it is now more than ever time to define a definitive regime that will eliminate the loopholes that make these frauds possible and, at the same time, eliminate red tape, simplify accounting operations for smes and contribute to the harmonization of tax policies at european level. i therefore voted in favour of the report, so that the commission can make a commitment to this.
in writing. ‒ the value added tax system, which has been in force in the european union since 1993, was conceived as a transitional system. in order to avoid european companies suffering a competitive disadvantage, the 'taxation of trade between member states' scheme must be replaced by a definitive scheme based on the principle of taxation of supplies of goods and services in the member state of origin. the current situation is that non-eu suppliers sell goods to union consumers vat-free thanks to the exemption for small consignments. the commission has therefore committed itself to presenting a proposal to modernise vat on crossborder e-commerce, in particular for smes. the report welcomes the commission's intention to propose a definitive vat system by 2017 that is simple, fair, robust, efficient and less prone to fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the major criticism of the current taxation system is its extreme vulnerability to fraud: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take account of the fact that the number of fraud cases in the member states is increasing. this report aims to make proposals to improve the vat collection system and to combat vat fraud. it aims to simplify business operations for smes and, above all, it stresses the need to harmonise tax policies at european level. i share this report as a whole and in particular it is worth highlighting a few key points: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the introduction of a vat rate for financial services and that member states should agree on increasing convergence of vat rates.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, the new value added tax system will have to be based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services, abandoning the current principle of the country of origin, which is not sufficiently effective in protecting competition and preventing fraud, in particular so-called carousel fraud. the new system also extends the tax provision whereby the supplier of goods collects vat from the customer to cross-border transactions, thus significantly reducing the possibility of vat fraud. i have tabled amendments calling for greater transparency, accountability of national tax administrations and greater cooperation. however, some critical issues remain, such as the creation of a single european list of goods and services at reduced rates of tax, as well as the harmonization and total convergence of the various systems, which goes in the opposite direction to the values of social justice and equity, sustainable growth and development. the creation of a single, transparent, public and digital european business register to better coordinate vat is also lacking, and there is no reference to greater accountability of the banking system, as i had requested in the amendments. for these reasons i have opted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the eu action plan against illegal wildlife trafficking developed as part of the eu's response to the 2030 agenda (sustainable development goal 15). this action plan will strengthen the union's role in the global fight against illegal wildlife trafficking by setting a number of priorities: the prevention, application of the existing framework, cooperation and recognition of the european union as the destination market and as the point of origin and transit for wildlife products. in addition, it is called for a total and immediate ban at european level on the trade, export or re-export to non-eu destinations of ivory and rhino horn. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking generates an estimated €20 million in revenue each year. it is the fourth most lucrative criminal activity after drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking. rhinoceroses, elephants, great apes and tigers are just some of the animal species most affected by poaching, with irreparable damage to ecosystems and biodiversity. the bearder report, which parliament adopted today and which i support, calls for a total and immediate ban at european level on the trade, export or re-export of ivory and rhino horn. the union and its member states should strengthen cooperation with the financial sector, engage with social media platform operators, search engines and e-commerce platforms and step up controls to stop illegal wildlife trade on the internet. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
in writing. ‒ the measure contains useful passages and interesting points, but there are still some criticisms which have led me to express my abstention.
in writing. ‒ illegal wildlife trafficking is one of the most developed and profitable forms of cross-border organised crime, with an estimated turnover of over eur 20 million per year. this represents a serious and growing threat, with major negative repercussions not only on the survival of global ecosystems, but also on the rule of law and the well-being of many local communities. the eu is a key player as a territory of origin, destination and transit for the illicit trade in these species. i therefore support this report which calls for a european action plan to combat wildlife trafficking globally. the eu must set priorities and tools, focusing on prevention, to reduce both the demand and supply of these endangered species on the international market. the need for a monitoring mechanism to ensure effective enforcement of existing rules and to provide for clearly defined and uniform sanctions for traffickers is also underlined.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking because i shared with my colleagues the idea that europol and eurojust have to recognise wildlife crimes as serious. in this regard, we called on the commission to establish a dedicated wildlife trafficking coordinator's office aimed at preventing wildlife trafficking and addressing its roots causes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that more efforts are needed to combat illegal wildlife trafficking, which is a serious threat to the survival of global ecosystems. the european union must prove itself a major player in the fight against wildlife crime, as a key transit point for trafficking from africa, asia and latin america. the report recommends that all parties concerned with combating trafficking launch multiple awareness campaigns aimed at prevention, addressing the root causes. the commission is called upon to take action as soon as possible, given the impact of the problem on the economic development of european coastal communities. member states must also take up this challenge responsibly, to foster sustainable development, to strengthen the rule of law, to consolidate the eu security framework and to preserve biodiversity for future generations.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is worth an estimated €20 billion a year and has recently grown to become one of the largest and most profitable forms of organised cross-border crime. i voted in favour of mrs bearder's resolution calling for a total and immediate ban at european level on the trade, export or re-export of ivory and rhino horn and calling for common eu sanctions against illegal wildlife trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report and action plan presented by the commission, as i strongly believe that illegal wildlife trafficking is a genuine form of organised crime and not just a means of financing it. it should be noted that the estimated turnover amounts to some eur 20 million per year and that it has been on a horribly upward trend in recent years to become one of the most widespread and profitable forms of cross-border organised crime. the action plan envisaged therefore includes measures to prevent and tackle the causes of illegal trafficking, including, in the first instance, information campaigns. secondly, to promote the development of sustainable and alternative livelihoods for communities living close to wildlife, to increase the benefits of conservation measures at local level and to promote a view of wildlife as a valuable source of income for communities. such initiatives, if taken in consultation with the communities concerned, will increase support for conservation and contribute to the recovery, conservation and sustainable management of wildlife populations and habitats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the definition of the action plan will strengthen the european union's role in the global fight against environmental crime. the action plan covers three main priorities: the prevention of illegal wildlife trafficking, the implementation and enforcement of existing rules against organised crime, the recognition of the eu as a market and as a point of origin and transit for wildlife products. targeted interventions such as reducing the overall supply and demand of wildlife products within the eu, raising public awareness, coordinating national and european authorities to effectively prosecute traffickers and toughening penalties for such crimes, coupled with active eu political support and technical assistance to countries of origin, transit and destination, will preserve biodiversity and improve the eu's security framework.
in writing. ‒ illegal wildlife trafficking is a very lucrative business for criminal organisations. firstly, the risk of being discovered is very low and secondly, the profits are so high that they have allowed the development of a turnover of billions of euros. the european union has therefore drawn up an action plan to limit and possibly eliminate this illegal traffic through prevention and cooperation. the report also calls for a total and immediate ban on the trade in ivory and rhino horn within european borders. in short, ivory and rhino horn cannot enter, leave or transit through europe. i therefore welcome the fact that this subject is often not given the attention it deserves.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because illegal wildlife trafficking is an unacceptable practice that must be stopped. i believe that the ban must be immediate in order to preserve the welfare of animals and prevent the threat of extinction of animal species such as elephants and rhinos. i therefore urge the member states to define appropriate levels of sanctions for wildlife trafficking offences.
in writing. ‒ illegal wildlife trafficking is a serious and growing threat not only to the survival of many plant and animal species, but also to the rule of law, human rights, global governance, the well-being of local communities and, above all, the very survival of global ecosystems. i voted in favour of the eu action plan against illegal wildlife trafficking because it is a criminal industry dominated by organised crime groups with a turnover of billions of euros. member states will be able to take a frontline, global and coordinated approach to reduce and prevent illegal wildlife trafficking by addressing the root causes.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from the report: i agree with some of the points, but i am sceptical about the harmonization of certain points at european level.
in writing. ‒ the black market in wildlife endangers the survival of many animal and plant species. international wildlife trafficking has grown significantly in recent years, and has become one of the biggest national and international emergencies: it's a business that, according to 2015 data, is worth between eight and 10 billion dollars. the world's wildlife has declined by 58 percent since 1970. the main cause that has contributed to the decimation of species is human activity, and in particular the trade in wildlife. the commission has recently indicated that it will be necessary to coordinate the policies of the member states to combat these crimes, as was also stated by the commission at the world conference on wildlife trade just over a month ago. the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, launched in february, shows the eu and its member states' commitment to tackling wildlife trafficking, in countries of origin, transit and destination, and also to tackling corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the eu action plan on wildlife trafficking because i believe it is important to tackle a growing criminal phenomenon with a turnover of €20 billion a year. i strongly believe that an action plan involving all eu member states is essential to ensure adequate protection of the natural ecosystems of the species in question and effective control to prevent the illegal trade in these specimens from posing a serious threat to the biodiversity of wildlife. as the problem of the security of the countries of origin is certainly linked to the demand for illegal trade, it is necessary to propose cooperation between the european institutions and the partner countries through the united nations convention against corruption. the implementation of support policies on the ground, aimed at promoting the development of sustainable and alternative livelihoods for rural communities, can be the right way to benefit directly from participation in wildlife conservation. i believe that to combat the illegal trade in protected species once and for all, we must take a more firm stance against those involved in illegal trafficking, through strong sanctions and enforcement of the law.
in writing. ‒ it is with great conviction and a sense of responsibility that this house has supported, by voting today, the total and immediate ban on the export or re-export of ivory and rhino horn, as well as common sanctions against illegal wildlife trafficking. this is a particularly serious and growing trade, the value of which is helping to fuel organized crime. the link between these offences and other forms of organised crime, including money laundering and the financing of militias and terrorist groups, is now proven. we therefore urge the eu and its member states to use all relevant instruments, including cooperation with the financial sector, to identify these links and break this chain with appropriate instruments, including strong sanctions, harmonised sanctions in all european countries. we also call on the commission to adopt common rules on the definition of offences and sanctions relating to wildlife trafficking. a further commitment by the eu to review the current regulatory framework as soon as possible and to complement it with a ban on the making available, placing on the market, transporting, acquiring and possessing wildlife illegally obtained or traded in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu action plan against wildlife trafficking. tackling wildlife crime is important because flora and fauna are not the only ones facing danger. wildlife crime is considered a growing threat that may severely impact the rule of law, human rights, global governance, and the well-being of local communities. trading of wildlife has proved to be a lucrative activity highly dominated by organized criminal groups, which thereby have an impact peace and security. member states should address the ongoing wildlife situation because it is affecting many sectors of society. hence, only by taking a hands-on approach will the eu be able to preserve biodiversity for future generations, improve the life of local peoples, and increase sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that in 2015 the need to combat wildlife crime was already stated, as it is a serious and increasingly serious crime, with billions of euros in trade in wildlife. this action plan would be part of the eu's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development and, in particular, to sustainable development goal 15, which calls for action against poaching and wildlife trafficking. the european union also has a key role to play in this fight, since europe is not only the point of transit but also the origin of illegal traffic. the member states of the european union cannot stand by because this illegal trade in animals is damaging to human rights, the well-being of the local community and the survival of the global ecosystem. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite growing public attention and awareness, poaching and wildlife trafficking continue to grow and have become one of the most prominent and lucrative forms of organised crime, with an estimated annual value of around €20 billion. studies reveal an unprecedented surge in the trade in ivory and rhino horn. in addition to being a serious threat to biodiversity, such trafficking also poses a serious security problem for the countries of origin. and europe is one of the main outlets. i therefore share the call in the report for the union and each member state to address this type of crime as a genuine political emergency, by improving cooperation between all the actors involved and developing a coordinated approach across the various sectoral policies: trade, development, foreign affairs, justice and home affairs. only then will it be possible to combat effectively wildlife trafficking and poaching. it is essential that we all work to halt the rapid decline of the most endangered animal species and to protect the richness of biodiversity and the future of our children.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a major player in the fight against wildlife crime as a major destination for wildlife of illegal origin and as a transit point for illegal trafficking between africa, asia and latin america. the action plan presented by the commission sets out a series of measures to be taken by the community institutions and member states to combat illegal wildlife trafficking across the eu and the world. i believe that the global partnership between countries of origin, consumption and transit against illegal wildlife trafficking should be strengthened by providing political support and technical assistance to the main countries of origin, transit and destination. the eu should use its economic power to include clauses in existing and future trade agreements that refer to the need to combat illegal wildlife trafficking. i fully agree with the solutions and the insights offered by the rapporteur in this document. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ illegal wildlife trafficking generates profits of around €20 billion a year, making it one of the largest and most lucrative transnational organised crime. the growth of such criminal activity over the last decade is seriously threatening biodiversity and the survival of endangered species. i have decided to vote in favour of this report in the hope that the necessary steps will be taken to strengthen the comprehensive partnership between member states and third countries, to improve the effectiveness of existing instruments and to adopt common rules on sanctions for this illegal trade.
in writing. wildlife trafficking is worth an estimated €20 billion a year and has recently grown to become one of the largest and most profitable forms of cross-border organised crime. we're looking at the fourth largest organized crime activity on the planet. as the risk of detection is low and the profits high, it is tempting for criminal groups to exploit wildlife caught or removed illegally to finance their criminal activities. the time has come to take serious action and together with my colleagues from the m5s we have called for a total and immediate ban at european level on the trade, export or re-export within the eu and to destinations outside the eu of ivory and rhino horn. we have urged the member states to define appropriate levels of sanctions for wildlife crime and we have urged the commission to work towards the adoption of common rules on the definition of wildlife crime and sanctions. the sanctions against wildlife trafficking must be very severe to reflect the seriousness of this crime and must be the same throughout the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to analyse the reality of small transport enterprises in europe, especially in the light of the new opportunities offered by digitalisation and collaborative economy models. the main objective is to amend the current rules on international transport and cabotage in order to overcome the serious disturbances in national transport markets that have occurred following the introduction of regulation (ec) no 1072/2009 of the european parliament and of the council, such as social dumping and unfair competition by companies from eastern europe in particular. in particular, it calls for improving access to credit for small businesses, introducing a modernised multi-modal regulatory framework to promote innovation and competitiveness, protecting consumers and their data and protecting workers' rights. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the riquet report on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including collaborative economy models. this is an important text that analyses the challenges and opportunities for smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups in the transport sector, keeping as a reference the new business models and the context of the collaborative economy. the growth of the digital economy and the emergence of platforms are profoundly changing the environment in which small transport companies operate, with new challenges also arising from the development of connected and self-driving vehicles. these are complex realities which require new instruments and commitments at european level to promote fair growth and fair competition in the emerging market. the text adopted underlines the need to produce a clear legal framework, particularly for platforms, which will allow a genuine single european transport area to be finally achieved, with measures to tackle anti-competitive practices, to encourage european start-ups and to ensure adequate investment. the european approach is the only way to create a truly integrated mobility system and to support the emergence of new business models.
in writing. ‒ although the text contains some shared ideas, there are some unclear passages which could give rise to criticism in the future, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ with the development of new economic models, european smes, especially in the transport sector, are facing significant challenges in responding to an increasing demand for mobility, with the constraints of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental requirements. all these companies play an essential role in passenger and freight transport, where the 'major' transport networks are unable to provide their services. to meet this need, the sector has proved to be a fertile ground for the collaborative economy, a system capable of optimising the meeting between supply and demand on the market, but often putting smes at a disadvantage in terms of price and competitiveness. i therefore support the report presented by the european parliament as it contains proposals to translate these many challenges into as many opportunities for smes. this means accelerating efforts to complete the single european transport area by ending disparities in the application of transport law. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it suggested how to transform current challenges into new opportunities for small transport businesses. first of all, i consider that a more integrated european mobility system is the best way to offer a better and competitive environment to all companies. last, i think new forms of service provision in the goods transport sector need to be taken into consideration looking at the potential of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ small transport companies in europe are more difficult to evaluate because their profiles differ according to the country, the type of service provided and the competitive structure of the market in which they operate. these include family businesses, smes, micro-enterprises, craft enterprises and start-ups. all of them play a vital role in passenger and freight transport, thanks to a better knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and/or agility and innovation. the new technologies, accessible to small businesses, by optimising the match between supply and demand, are introducing a radical disruption, which poses the challenge for small businesses to take advantage of the digital transition. there is also an urgent need for the transport sector to reduce its carbon emissions. finally, the problems of enforcement are important, and small businesses are the most affected by the lack of a single european transport area. efforts to complete this single area, to foster innovation, consumer protection and fair competition, must therefore be accelerated. and to organise better consultation between local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which provides new development opportunities for small transport companies and promotes the quality of the services they offer. the increasing demand for mobility and the resulting pressures to provide safe and sustainable solutions pose a difficult challenge for small businesses, especially in terms of costs. in this regard, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) can be a useful tool to contribute to the development of innovative mobility solutions for smes operating in the transport sector. improving urban mobility through greater collaboration between local authorities and small businesses is essential, especially in anticipation of future changes in the transport sector. the report aims to turn these challenges into concrete opportunities by implementing the single european transport area and promoting convergence between the traditional and the platform economy in a way that supports innovation.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to analyse the very difficult to track small transport enterprises in europe in the light of the new opportunities offered by digitalisation and collaborative economy models. some important proposals are therefore being made to develop this approach. among these: the request for a revision of regulation 1072/2009 (the introduction of which has created disruptions on national markets) governing the current rules on international transport and cabotage; the creation of cooperation structures between small transport companies, scientific research institutes and local and regional authorities to promote sustainable mobility; identifying a modernised multimodal regulatory framework that promotes innovation and competitiveness, protects consumers and their data, and protects workers' rights. i certainly voted for it.
in writing. ‒ european transport companies face significant challenges in responding to the increasing demand for mobility and increasing environmental requirements. these challenges can and must be turned into opportunities. in particular, i believe that the development of collaborative business models can make a major contribution to optimising the use of vehicles and infrastructure, weakening existing monopoly positions and allowing even small businesses to emerge in these areas. however, many open questions remain on the collaborative economy and transport, both at national and european level. i believe that the member states must put an end to the phenomenon of excessive regulation, which is fragmenting the internal market and failing to provide clarity for providers and users of transport services. at the same time, the union is called upon to create a clear, multi-modal legal framework, which promotes innovation and competitiveness, as well as the protection of consumers and their data. i thought i should vote in favour of the report because i believe that the completion of the single european transport area is essential for the functioning of the internal market, but it is also a great opportunity for development for european small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the role of smes in europe is unique: they represent 99.8% of all non-financial sector enterprises and account for two thirds of all jobs. they represent a reality which, together with the fundamental and growing importance of logistics and transport, requires ad hoc measures to develop in totality. i therefore support the report with the confidence that it will open up new opportunities for small transport companies. this is a very complex sector and therefore the challenges are many such as the increasing demand for mobility with the constraint of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental requirements which are difficult to cope with. however, we must aim to turn these challenges into opportunities by making efforts to complete the single european transport area and by establishing regulations which impose new requirements on small businesses which are more suited to their shape and needs, particularly in tax matters. the commission is also calling for the european fund for strategic investments to be used effectively and its implementation to be accelerated in order to increase its assistance to small businesses and start-ups in preparing innovative projects based on the development of new mobility solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the measure encourages convergence between the traditional economy and new platforms - including collaborative economy models - in order to foster innovation, consumer protection and fair competition between small transport companies that today play an essential role in the transport of passengers and goods, making it easier for historically articulated mobility for 'large' companies thanks also to a more accurate knowledge of the local market.
in writing. ‒ small transport enterprises play a key role in passenger and freight transport, thanks to a better knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and often an agility and capacity for innovation. i therefore believe it is important to define a regulatory, social and fiscal environment as favourable as possible, especially in the light of technological developments which see this sector as a very fertile field. in this context, it is important that member states develop a structured response of collaborative business, which promotes competitiveness. to this end, i believe that the completion of a single european transport area, coupled with measures to tackle anti-competitive practices, is the key to encouraging the development of start-ups and ensuring that efsi funds are also made available in the transport sector.
in writing. ‒ the sharing economy is actively contributing to the development of more efficient and sustainable business models, particularly in the areas of transport and urban mobility. a real important resource that often benefits consumers, who have more choice at lower costs, and improves connectivity in peripheral, mountain and rural regions. on the other hand, as argued in the riquet report on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including collaborative economy models, self-regulating markets or the current fragmentation of legislation at national, sometimes even regional or local level, do not ensure an appropriate regulatory environment for the development of european small enterprises and innovative start-ups in the transport sector. the real challenge ahead will be to establish a framework of coordinated action and rules at european level, which ensures the full development of these new collaborative business models, but which is at the same time fair to the players in the traditional economy, who must not be unfairly penalized by unfair competition or by the lack of legal certainty regarding a precise definition of service providers in the transport sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i come from a country like italy, where small and medium-sized enterprises are fundamental to territorial development. the collaborative economy, which i strongly support, is setting in motion the digital economy that small and medium-sized transport companies can access to optimise vehicle use and reduce costs. moreover, smes' small size often has the advantage of being more competitive in the territory they cover, both in densely populated areas and in more isolated ones, because of their knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and capacity for innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is necessary to support the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also start-ups, operating in the transport sector. i particularly welcome the call for measures to simplify legislation, linked to a clear and proportionate legal framework for small transport undertakings, together with the need to regulate the growing use of light vehicles for the international transport of goods by european standards.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because from one point of view it is a positive report, criticising the excessive legislation and bureaucracy in this area, but on the other it presents some passages which are too neoliberal.
in writing. ‒ small, medium and micro enterprises account for 99% of european enterprises. there are some 21 million smes, employing some 133 million people. at the same time, transport is a key sector of the economy, making a major contribution to economic development (4.8% of total gross value added for the eu28) and creating over 11 million jobs in europe. smes active in the transport sector make mobility easier where it is too complex for large companies (airlines, shipping and railways) to transport both people and goods. small transport enterprises are therefore an integral part of european mobility. in a europe which involves smes in technological development through various financing measures, small transport industries must also be included. finally, individuals who create start-ups in the transport sector can be considered as self-employed. the number of selfemployed in europe is 4 million, which corresponds to 11 million jobs. in the case of the transport sector too, we must continue to fight for their activities to be recognised as equal to those of smes.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a favourable vote for the report on new opportunities for small transport businesses, including collaborative business models. currently, there are a variety of circumstances hindering the establishment of fair competition and growth of small businesses. in order to manage and improve these situations, the report has proposed a list of ideas, which seem to have a positive impact on small businesses by bringing opportunity and change. by supporting the report, we can look forward to providing even safer, more sustainable, and more competitive small businesses.
in writing. ‒ the world of transport, both goods and passengers, is a reality involving a very large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, whose profile is, however, very often not defined. these smes generally integrate into the mobility system by operating in a specific sector and by exploiting their greater knowledge of the local market and proximity to the customer. this gives them a huge advantage in offering their services. the advent of the digital economy and of intermediation platforms has fostered the proliferation of small and micro enterprises, especially start-ups, in the sector, creating the ideal ground for the development of the so-called collaborative economy. this process, which is bound to accelerate in the coming years, calls on the legislator to find suitable and ideal solutions for this sector. there are two main challenges we are facing: on the one hand, ensuring that the digital transition benefits smes and micro-enterprises; the commission is also proposing to make a contribution to the development of the transport sector by balancing environmental considerations and mobility needs. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this important initiative.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of the proposal from my colleagues because i believe that, although these small companies are difficult to evaluate because they operate in different sectors, they play a fundamental role in both passenger and freight transport. in fact, in the absence of statistical data it is impossible to understand the reality of small transport enterprises in europe as regards: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. these companies, being very close to the customer, improve their individual transport service particularly in the last mile of the journey. as they are very important for the european union, it is necessary to create a new positive regulatory, social and fiscal environment, which would allow for an effective convergence between the traditional and platform economies in order to foster, at the same time, greater consumer protection and the implementation of fair competition. as a politician, i also believe that it is appropriate to encourage and invest in small businesses because they are very often made up of people who live only from this activity. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it provides a number of important recommendations to promote fair and balanced growth in the transport sector, taking into account the new conditions brought about by the emergence of the collaborative economy and paying due attention to smes. i agree that the completion of a common european transport area is crucial, together with the need to ensure a clear legislative framework, which guarantees fair conditions for all companies to compete on a level playing field. the report also criticises the most common anti-competitive practices which can lead to serious distortions, such as social dumping, while at the same time stressing the importance of flexible working models negotiated between the social partners and the opportunities created by information technology. it recognises the importance of public transport for rural areas and, finally, recalls the importance of the sector for environmental issues, proposing legislation and funding to promote a totally emission-free mobility in the short term. the transport sector faces many challenges and opportunities, thanks to the emergence of the collaborative economy. a coherent european approach is needed to promote smes and new business models, in an integrated way with the existing players on the market.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a number of proposals which seek to turn many of the current challenges into opportunities for small transport enterprises. in this context, i believe that efforts should be stepped up to complete a single european transport area, ending disparity in enforcement, ending dumping and encouraging convergence between the traditional economy and intermediary platforms, including collaborative business models, in order to promote innovation, protect consumers and fair competition. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ small transport enterprises are rather difficult to assess because of the variety of types - family businesses, smes, microenterprises, craft and start-ups - of the country in which they operate and the type of service they provide. small and medium-sized enterprises account for around 55% of employment in the transport sector and thanks to technological innovations and new collaborative business models, the demand for this type of transport is set to grow. i believe it is important that the european union and the member states address the existing overregulation and support smes in order to turn current challenges into new development opportunities for the transport sector in europe. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on new opportunities for small businesses providing transport services for passengers and goods. this own-initiative report analyses the challenges and opportunities for small businesses in the transport sector, particularly in the context of the collaborative economy. the growth of the digital economy and the emergence of platforms must be seen as great opportunities to foster growth, fair competition within a clear legal framework. the two major challenges for smes are to adapt to the changes taking place and to respond to the needs of society through sustainable solutions that take account of the respect for the environment.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes note of the shortcomings identified during the 2015 presidential and 2016 parliamentary elections and calls on the belarusian authorities to resume electoral reform activities in the framework of a broader democratisation process and in collaboration with international partners. it also urges belarus, as the only country in europe still applying the death penalty, to join the global moratorium on the execution of the death penalty as a first step towards its final abolition. finally, it expressed concern at the security problems raised by the construction of the belarusian nuclear power plant at ostrovets, less than 50 km from vilnius, the capital of lithuania, and close to the polish border. stresses the need for comprehensive international oversight of the project implementation to ensure compliance with international nuclear and environmental safety requirements and standards. however, there are many points which need to be clarified and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ more than 20 years after the fall of the soviet union, the european continent is living with a reality that has been described several times as europe's last dictatorship: the union shall support the following: since 1994, there have been no democratic elections, no new political parties since 2000, and new tools have been introduced to imprison and harass the opposition. the resolution adopted today, which i support, calls on the government to end the persecution and to promote, as a first step, a global moratorium on the death penalty. parliament continued to support the democratic aspirations of the belarusian people and called on the commission and the european external action service to step up support for civil society organisations in belarus and abroad. the text also calls for international supervision of the construction of the first belarusian nuclear power station at ostrovets, less than 50 km from the lithuanian capital vilnius. the council and the commission must therefore push for belarus to conduct stress tests at its nuclear site.
in writing. ‒ i do not fully agree with some of the passages in this resolution, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the situation in belarus highlighted the fact that since 1994 no free and fair elections have been conducted in the country. thus, i voted in favour of this resolution because it called on the belarusian authorities to resume work on a new electoral reform and to ensure respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ belarus is an undemocratic state where the death penalty, the systematic repression of dissent and the harassment of opposition are still in force. since its independence from the soviet union, there have been no free elections in the country, which has always been ruled by alexander grigoryevich lukashenko. in recent years, there has been a moderate improvement in living conditions and respect for human rights in the country, thanks to constant pressure from the european union and international bodies. however, this progress is not enough and belarus still remains subject to an authoritarian and nationalist government. the european union must continue its cultural, political and diplomatic efforts to help the belarusian people to progress along the path of democracy and to peacefully integrate into the international scene.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus is because the belarusian parliament is the only one in europe that has not had an opposition for 20 years. the elections, held in 2010, were described by the osce as "neither free nor fair". the osce/odihr assessment also found a significant number of procedural irregularities and lack of transparency in the elections held in 2016. in my view, although attempts at dialogue should be facilitated, at least to alleviate the difficult political situation and to lighten the burden on the citizens, belarus remains an authoritarian regime and human rights violations pose difficult problems for the eu to overcome. we must remind ourselves that the eu remains a community of values whose main concern is the respect for democratic principles, civil liberties and human rights.
in writing. ‒ belarus is often referred to as 'the last dictatorship in europe'. its president, alexander lukashenko, has been elected with incredible majorities since 1991, while his party regularly wins 110 out of 110 seats in parliament. belarus is also the only country on the european continent that still applies the death penalty: at least four people have been sentenced to death since february and some 400 people have been executed since the country gained independence in 1991. i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, among other things, it calls on the belarusian authorities to resume work on a comprehensive electoral reform and calls for the rehabilitation of all released political prisoners and the full restoration of their rights by pursuing a constructive and positive path for the benefit of the entire belarusian people that can lead to supporting their legitimate aspirations and the pro-democracy initiatives needed to help create a stable, democratic and prosperous future for the country.
in writing. ‒ i share the concern about the shortcomings found in belarus by independent international observers during the presidential elections. i therefore welcome this resolution which calls on the belarusian authorities to take measures that can help overcome a number of systemic shortcomings, including restrictions in the legal framework for political rights and fundamental freedoms. i consider it very important and look forward to belarus' accession to the euronest pa, in accordance with the constitutive act, as soon as the political conditions are met, as such accession would be the natural continuation of belarus' participation in the multilateral cooperation framework of the eastern partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's statement on the situation in belarus. the recent parliamentary elections in belarus have amply demonstrated that the process of democratization is still ineffective, just note the lack of transparency in the last electoral process. given the rather delicate economic and geopolitical situation in the country, i hope that the belarusian government will make a greater effort to develop relations with europe, and above all to implement the rule of law, which is an essential value for us in the west.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the resolution which contains good intentions but then falls into the usual anti-russian rhetoric.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus because unfortunately belarus, despite the many calls from the international community, remains an authoritarian and illiberal regime. the belarusian parliament is the only one in europe that has not had a real opposition for over 20 years: the last elections in 2010 were described as "neither free nor transparent". i am very concerned about the lack of political pluralism and political democracy in belarus, where no new parties have been registered for 16 years. i therefore ask that all restrictions on this matter be dropped and that all political parties be allowed to carry out their political activities without hindrance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i firmly believe that it is necessary to facilitate attempts at dialogue, because diplomacy is our main weapon in trying to ease the regime's pressure on the freedoms of citizens. i reiterate my call on the belarusian authorities to ensure that democratic principles and fundamental freedoms are respected under all circumstances, in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that, despite the commitment of the belarusian government to establish relations with the west and to try to comply with the demands of the european union, we can see that there is still a long way to go. the european union must therefore reaffirm its commitment to working in the interests of the belarusian people, supporting their aspirations and initiatives for democracy and contributing to a stable, democratic and prosperous future for the country. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in belarus. in order to build better relations with the west, the belarusian authorities have allowed democratic opposition parties to register more easily than in previous elections and foreign observers have benefited from better access to the vote count. the resolution reiterates its call on the belarusian authorities to ensure respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms in all circumstances, in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights and the international and regional human rights instruments ratified by belarus. the european union calls on the belarusian government to rehabilitate the released political prisoners and fully restore their civil and political rights and to adhere to the global moratorium on the execution of the death penalty as a first step towards its final abolition.
before i give the floor to the commission, to mrs georgieva, i too would like to join in the thanks that have been addressed to her: i had the pleasure of working with you when we were both commissioners, i had the pleasure of working with you today as vice-president of parliament responsible for security and commissioner and vice-president georgieva responsible for security in the commission. thank you, thank you for all the fruitful work you've done together, and good luck on your new, fantastic adventure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is throwing away billions of euros for immigrants, false refugees, and is leaving italian, spanish, greek and french citizens unemployed and in poverty. in italy, almost one out of every two young people is unemployed, and one out of ten lives in abject poverty. in italy there are more than three million unemployed, more than four and a half million poor citizens who cannot even manage to put lunch and dinner together. the tragic truth is that our businesses are closing down. our young people are the new poor, forced to emigrate, to work, to survive! and what does the european union do in its budget? this is the money to keep 177 000 illegal immigrants in italy, kept in hotels with free breakfast, lunch and dinner, thanks to the renzi government. and not content, it gives 6 billion euros to the islamic turkey, bowing to the blackmail of the dictator erdogan. you know what i mean? do you understand then why the citizens want to escape from this cage of madmen which is the european soviet union?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank commissioner georgieva for her support of the budget for the past three years. secondly, i would like to thank commissioner georgieva and the rapporteurs, mr gahler and mr tarand, for the good work they have done on the budget this year. a budget which, of course, satisfies us, but which i, as has been said, for the things that have been said, want to consider as a beginning, a beginning of a path and probably - why not? - perhaps, of a turning point. we need a budget and a multiannual financial framework, as has been said, which are more modern, adapted to the times we are living in, to the difficulties and challenges we are facing. a multiannual financial framework, a budget that are more flexible and that are more substantial also, of course, that have more substance in them. we often say that we must have policies to combat the populisms that are growing and being born in europe. i'm not interested in that. i think europe has a high duty: i think that the commission has a duty to make policies that respond to the citizens, to the demands that citizens make of europe on work, especially young people, on the environment, on immigration issues that concern both migrants, but also the countries and cities and communities that are hosting migrants who are in great difficulty. and then on the environment, on work on enterprises, we need to focus on this and to achieve these results, to work on these matters, we need to invest again, we need to have a europe that invests again. i therefore also support mr fernandes' call on the council to adopt the multiannual financial framework. we need, and this is the last thing i say, mr president, apologizing for the time we have taken, we need to try again to fulfill a dream that the citizens have: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the face of the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this budget finally offers some tentative stimulus to boost growth, to deal with the migration crisis and to strengthen youth policies. compared to 2016, it is important to highlight the increase in commitments for immigration, security, by 11.3%, to about 5.9 billion euros. i particularly appreciate that the agreement has incorporated the european parliament's requests for additional funding of 700 million for the erasmus, horizon 2020 and youth programmes. so there are improvements in the distribution of expenditure, which are going in the right direction, but which are not yet sufficient. i regret in particular the reduction in commitments to mediterranean countries and the postponement, for lack of a legal basis, of the 250 million from the european fund for sustainable development to deal with the root causes of immigration. finally, i welcome the provision for emergency measures to support european farmers who are facing very difficult market situations.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation which has arisen with regard to the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a failure of this european union. i have heard many colleagues, including the commissioner, call for new resources to fight unemployment, for growth, for small and mediumsized enterprises, for financing innovation: it's all very well, but to do that, you need money, and today there's no money. member states are reluctant to give money to the european union for two reasons: the european union is facing an endless economic crisis and austerity measures that have squeezed the income and resources of the member states and they do not believe - as mr maragall said - that the european union can spend this money well. it is useless to talk about flexibility in the multiannual financial framework and to ask for more resources when, at the first opportunity, the hawk on duty, as the president of the eurogroup did yesterday, is only calling for strict compliance with the rules. if we want more resources, we must get the member states and europe back to growth, and we know that today the main obstacle to growth has a name and there is a person responsible. the euro, the single currency, is responsible for this, forcing downward pressure and austerity. without liberation from this bondage, we're not going anywhere. we can talk about flexibility all we want, but it will not lead to anything, it will be useless. it is as useless as the controversy of prime minister renzi, who wants to veto the multiannual financial framework. i believe that after the referendum on 4 december, if he is still the italian prime minister, he will turn around and give in to the pressure of juncker, merkel and their associates. why does renzi not tell the italian people that by voting yes to amending budget no 5 he has forced italian taxpayers to pay an additional billion euros to the european budget? this situation is not sustainable and this flexibility will not help us. long-term objectives must be met with a lot more resources. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. because there is a block to growth, which is the rigidity of the single currency, we cannot ask for more resources or more flexibility in revising the multiannual financial framework. if we, as europe, are able to return to growth policies, then the union budget will also have more resources and will be able to invest more to solve the problems of unemployment, to make more investments, to have more resources to devote to research. but without growth and the rigid rules of maastricht and the stability and growth pact, we will go nowhere, we will not have the resources to carry out these policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report adopted by this parliament last july on the annual review of the multiannual financial framework called for higher appropriations to adequately meet the challenges facing europe. although this request was not met, the proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework is still moving in the right direction. the provision of additional resources from budgetary reserves for investment in support of growth and employment and to deal with the migration crisis is certainly a positive development. but a solution must be found to the problem of payments: the backlog of unpaid invoices during the previous multiannual financial framework increased from eur 5 billion in 2010 to eur 23 billion at the end of 2013. this backlog has already extended to the current multiannual financial framework. every effort should be made to avoid further accumulation, with reference to the current programming.
in writing. the presentation of the multiannual financial framework has clearly demonstrated that there is a new mantra: the problem is flexibility. this flexibility was justified by the need to react quickly to events or to have "the necessary space to do what we have to do". but what will be done in the three-year period 2017-2020 to respond to the needs of european citizens? what will be done for employment, for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, for welfare, for a sustainable future? or should we rather ask how much waste there will be, starting with the three seats of the european parliament, for example? we have also heard in the house that flexibility, in addition to increased resources, is again justified as a necessary step in responding to emergencies such as immigration and security. so, since erdogan has been in power, europe has already transferred or promised to allocate 36.6 billion euros to turkey. other than emergencies: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. finally, we must not forget a contradiction in terms, since the council and the commission speak of flexibility, whereas the member states are being held in the chains of austerity and the rigors of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. the occasion of the revision of the multiannual financial framework, which may seem to many to be a bureaucratic technicality as we see many in brussels, is in fact a key moment. it is a question of deciding where to invest the essential resources we have at this stage of economic and social crisis. the council has unfortunately chosen not to introduce new funds but to transfer resources by means of an operation which masks budget cuts which are no longer sustainable. the proposal put forward by the institutions is not satisfactory to us as italian meps or members of the socialist group. we cannot accept a stagnation and rigidity which are leading to the collapse of the project of european cohesion and solidarity. together we are calling for more investment where it is needed most, in areas where europe's role can do much better to put growth, jobs, flexibility, immigration, security and support for young people back at the heart of our work at a critical time for the labour market. we must show that the political will has changed. rather than approving the revision as it stands, it would be better to think further and give the council time to work out a new proposal, or to think about these changes together when we discuss the 2017 european budget, when we can be more ambitious.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the european union's trade strategy to help countries in economic difficulty. the free trade agreement with ghana will give the african state access to the european market and the stability needed for new investment and job creation. however, it should be noted that the activation of an agreement concluded in 2007 is substantially inadequate in the light of the changed conditions. the absence of a regional dimension and rules of origin, as well as an incomplete institutional framework, make this agreement a back-up solution, pending the definition of the partnership with the whole west african region. and it is precisely in view of this partnership that i would like to stress the importance of the introduction of safeguard measures, which make it possible to reinstate duties in the event that an increase in imports threatens to disrupt the economy of a sector, such as fruit and vegetables, which is too often sacrificed by agreements concluded with african countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between the united states and the european union establishes for the first time a comprehensive framework of data protection principles and safeguards for the transfer of personal information in the context of criminal law enforcement, including in the field of terrorism. a protection instrument that can be applied in a comprehensive and coherent way to transatlantic exchanges of data in the field of judicial and police cooperation, which is undoubtedly a major step forward in relations between the united states and europe. the agreement will confirm, in the transatlantic context, the general requirements on international data transfers laid down in the european directive adopted last april on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the authorities responsible for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties. it will constitute a safety net for future eu-us agreements, below which the level of protection cannot be lowered.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me first thank you for your support and engagement in this file. we are at a turning point for the evolution of the internet, an amazing technology that for good and for bad is a mirror of our societies. now it is time to deliver what is needed to keep the internet open, unfragmented and reliable. going forward, it will be important to continue to work together and make sure the eu acts as a coherent and positive partner in internet governance discussion at the global level. this will include working on how to improve the multi-stakeholder model and make it more inclusive, accountable, and transparent. in this context, stronger links with internet governance dialogue taking place at local and national level are also very important. the internet governance forum has grown to become an important platform for these discussions, and i am confident with our input it will continue to improve and grow over the next coming years. i therefore wish the european parliament delegation going to guadalajara a fruitful meeting. the commission will also be present there with a delegation from dg connect. i am confident that you will be able to bring forward the discussion in many areas, and i am looking forward to hearing about the result of your discussions.
in writing. the internet governance forum 2016 is coming up in a few days, an important meeting to discuss and further codify the improvements needed in the ict sector. these discussions drive action by national governments, regional and global agencies and operators. it is therefore important to emphasise that the igf will also discuss public policy issues relevant to the internet, such as cybersecurity and data privacy, topics on which i have spoken on several occasions. i have to say that the issue of internet governance in a global context will be essential, with some important features: there is increasing economic competition in the digital field; the axis of global cyberspace is not the usual one, but it's around the united states and china. after the european court of justice's decisions on safe harbor and the right to be forgotten, privacy and cybersecurity are no longer just a human rights issue. now they are also an economic problem, indeed, a cyber-economy problem, and it is in this perspective that they must be solved, by enabling inclusive and sustainable growth for developing countries.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after the tragic floods of 2002, the european union set up the solidarity fund to give tangible expression to the importance of these issues to countries affected by major natural disasters. italy has unfortunately been confronted in recent years with very important tragedies: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of the floods in sardinia, liguria and piedmont. this is from a few days ago, but the earthquake in l'aquila, in central italy, it's certainly impossible to predict all emergencies, all disasters, but it's always possible to improve the management of their consequences. i would also like to say at the outset that in these cases the european institutions must be sensitive, they must understand that their credibility, their authority, also depends on their ability to be present at these moments and to convey a message, namely, management capacity. we know that, however positive the amendments made by the 2014 regulation, namely those relating to advance payments of up to 10% of the amount, the eligibility of costs linked to the preparation and attention of emergency and recovery operations, but also the extension of the deadlines for the submission of the application by the member states, the introduction of the six-week deadline for the commission's response, the new provisions on the prevention of natural disasters and improvements to the related procedures, have been. i firmly believe, however, that many more steps forward can and must be taken to improve the effectiveness of the fund and to show our citizens, who are affected by disasters, that europe is really close to their needs, so it is important that the european commission is here today to ask the commissioner to improve the solidarity fund further, to overcome some of the critical problems that still remain. i therefore ask the commission to consider raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15%, because it is important that the territories be immediately available in the face of emergencies, as in italy, in the face of the tragedies i have just mentioned, and to consider shortening the time taken to process the six applications from six to four weeks. i also invite the commission to examine the possibility of introducing an eligibility threshold of 1.5% instead, with a limit of 1% of regional gdp, and to take into account the level of socioeconomic development of the regions concerned in the evaluation of applications. but i also ask the member states to act responsibly in improving their means of communication and cooperation with local and regional authorities, both during the initial assessment process of eligible damage for which financial support is requested, because too often delay and lack of administrative capacity have caused further obstacles. i also ask this commission to give us the opportunity to review the rules on flexibility and the stability pact in the specific case of the earthquake, especially with regard to investment to prevent earthquakes and sustainable reconstruction, because in this specific case they should be excluded from the calculation of the national deficit under the stability pact, because in this case one cannot ask for an exception to the rule for electoral reasons, but to safeguard the lives, the suffering of hundreds of people who have lost their lives in the context of natural disasters.
author. mr president, i thank the members who are demonstrating that solidarity exists in europe, also on behalf of my country, where, as you know, the earthquakes were of exceptional gravity and in a few months shook a very large area of central italy. i think that in addition to the memory of the victims we must also remember that there has been extensive damage to houses, much of the infrastructure has been destroyed, businesses have been badly affected, public buildings, schools, hospitals, structures are in many cases unusable. it is therefore still a very serious emergency situation which is being dealt with by rapid but effective measures, which are already being taken, both for reconstruction and for prevention, which my colleagues have very appropriately recalled. in the resolution, which we, a group of representatives of the various political groups, have co-authored, we welcome the readiness - which we hope the commissioner will confirm - and the granting of greater flexibility for emergency expenditure, but also for security expenditure, which is (i believe) a very important element for the whole seismic area, which, as the honourable member has mentioned, is italian but also balkan. and also the speed and the commitment to speed in making resources available, the solidarity fund, again the speed and the ability to demonstrate that the european union is moving when necessary, with the necessary speed. so thank you, if these commitments are kept and i would also like to remember, all the volunteers, who have offered their enormous contribution, saving lives and limiting damage, many of whom are also foreigners. we hope that in the future the strengthening of solidarity bodies at european level will enable many young people to have a similar experience.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent earthquakes in central italy have claimed almost 300 lives and forced hundreds of thousands of people to abandon their homes and businesses, and caused billions of euros in property damage. solidarity and closeness are not enough, the citizens want answers from the union and governments to help a hard-hit area to get back on its feet. italy is at high risk of earthquakes and is often hit by weather events that cause landslides, floods, landslides, as happened a few days ago in the northwest of the country. the citizens expect resources and want them to be used properly, for disaster prevention, for countering hydrogeological disruption, for securing homes, schools, hospitals and businesses. it has been talked about for decades, but the facts lie behind the promises made by all the governments that have succeeded each other. the situation is further complicated by the chains and restrictions imposed by this europe, which is already taking its breath away from ordinary administration and which, in the event of disasters, risks strangling the population and productive activities. the five star movement has been insisting since the beginning of the legislature on the exclusion of the structural funds from the deficit calculation, one of the parameters of the stability and growth pact. and today it consistently calls for the exclusion from the calculation of sustainable reconstruction, seismic prevention and actions co-financed by the structural funds under thematic objective five. i call on all members to support and vote in favour of this position, as expressed in the resolution in compromise no 11. the commission shall assess the application of the italian government for the solidarity fund, but in a rapid and vigilant manner so that the resources are used in an appropriate manner. austerity is not fought in an alternating current manner, in the event of emergencies or electoral deadlines, but in a coherent and continuous way and not instrumentally.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, timeliness, effectiveness and prevention. i believe that colleagues, many colleagues, regardless of their different positions, agree that these objectives should be pursued. and the report is a step forward, but more remains to be done. experience shows that this solidarity fund, although limited, has not been fully used so far, despite the increase in natural disasters in europe, also as a result of climate change. in 2014, for example, only 126 million of the 500 available were spent. also because the thresholds are too high. we have to change this mechanism. make it more functional. how did you do that? the simplest way would be to lower the thresholds, which has been proposed and the member states have refused. we propose as an amendment another solution, complementary to the lowering of the thresholds, perhaps more equitable, which is to calculate the thresholds not only on the basis of a single event but also by adding up the damage suffered by the same region over the course of a year as a result of repeated natural disasters. we have all brought here the tragic experience of the people of central italy who had just begun to rebuild their cities, destroyed by the earthquake in august, when three more devastating quakes destroyed the work done. but there is also the experience of regions, especially in southern europe, in italy, portugal, spain, greece and cyprus, where climate change, bad land policies, produce catastrophes that now follow one another in a series, leading the populations to despair. so i ask myself and i ask you, what is the point of evaluating one for one events that are now connected, denying our solidarity to those who really need it most, based on a cold bureaucratic algorithm?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on budgetary control has drawn up a very clear text in which we consider it essential that the solidarity fund should move towards simplifying the procedures and evaluation criteria for the request for activation. this is to be as timely as possible in emergency situations, in the event of unpleasant catastrophes. at the same time, we believe that good control is not possible without full transparency, because speculation on emergency situations must not be allowed in the least. that is why we call on the member states and the commission in the report to make public and fully accessible all information on the use of the solidarity fund, which has not been done so far and has allowed in some cases the misuse of money, including the last earthquake that happened in l'aquila. i would add personally, on behalf of the five star movement, that it is unacceptable to hear about european spending constraints at a time of demand crisis like this and like the one we are in, and even less when there are catastrophes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is not populism, it is not demagogy, it is simply common sense.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the commissioner for his speech, which i very much appreciated. but i wanted to start with mr cicu's report, which points out that we are very fast at the moment. you see, in these beautiful but difficult lands of central italy, lands we know very well, the economy is based on agriculture and its transformation, and agriculture - yesterday i was talking to the mayor of amatrice - who explained to me that for 2,000 people, 1,100, it is winter, there is already snow, it is very cold. but you can't leave those businesses, those businesses are tied to the animals, and therefore to the people who live there and care for them. but the importance of staying there, because the weather could be dramatic for those lands. we must not abandon them, nor the people, nor that territory. it is a strategic area, because if it is abandoned, it could become a difficult area for everyone, not just for those who live there. so we must speed up and respond immediately. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a shadow, and on 30 october i was at home with my daughter and i had to explain to her what was going on. and the same thing happened in the marches and it happened in lazio. it's not easy to tell a story about fear. it's not easy for me to tell you that i was alive anyway and i live 100 kilometers from the epicenter of the earthquake. imagine what that means, a few seconds that erase centuries of history and destroy the prospects, the future, of thousands of families. this is the reality. today, we are here, we are talking, we are proposing actions, but today in norcia the temperatures are below zero and there are people who no longer have a home, people who in a few moments have lost everything. so if this europe still has any meaning, if it exists, if it has a reason for being, it must prove its essence, beyond words, with concrete deeds, immediate actions. solidarity is a value and a principle only if we add the concrete factor to solidarity, only if our words become deeds, only if people who have nothing today, because they have lost everything, are put in a position to continue to believe that there is a future. there are children who are trying to get back to normal, but there are schools that are unwieldy and we are talking about the difficulty of being able to release certain investments from the stability pact? we're talking about the future of our children and you're talking about budgetary constraints? then you must come and tell the children of norcia, the children of tolentino, the children of amatrice, that in the face of the disaster, the fear in which they have lived for months, there is a europe that says that stability is a supreme good. because to save the banks there is no stability that holds. i therefore demand, on behalf of the five star movement, on behalf of the citizens of umbria, tuscany, marche and abruzzo, that we have a europe which takes care of its citizens. i demand it, because it is for the good of our children. talk is cheap. solidarity is made of concrete action.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our commissioner has reassured us on a number of points, but she does not tell us whether she accepts the proposal which comes from the people and which is echoed by us populists who are the worst in the world, who insistently ask for justice to be done for the blood which is being shed by the people, not by the bankers or those who say they talk to us every day about budgetary constraints. that is to say, extrapolating from budgetary constraints, the sums sacrosanctly allocated to prevention and reconstruction and to the productive, social revival of areas whose population has immediately returned to work, are attached to the territory. there are the shepherds, who are still there, they have not abandoned the territory. two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this requires a procedure initiated by the italian government, but from what you have told us, it seems to me that it has not even been put in place. i thank you very much for what you can do, these people deserve it. you don't look at who's asking you, you look at the faces through the television, the faces of these extraordinary people of our country, who don't deserve to be represented by those who consider budget constraints, like the tablets of moses. they're not the tablets of moses, they're the tablets of banking and high finance. they are not the tables of the law of nations. these are the tables of the international financial corporation that rules europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like mrs angea, i was there on the 24th at 7.40 a.m. and the 30th at 7.40 a.m. and i lived through that terrible earthquake with the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have heard the colleagues, and i thank them, all the italian colleagues who have spoken and also the other colleagues who have of course given their full solidarity and support, but this is a particular earthquake, a particular calamity. the tremors are continuing, expanding to the old fault lines. yesterday the quake in l'aquila, this morning the quake near reggio emilia. the situation is particularly serious and i therefore welcome the appeal of my colleagues - i thank the committee on regional affairs, which prepared this resolution, which is also important in article 7 - and my colleague from the alde group, mr cicu, who through his report asks the commission to intervene more promptly, because this europe must act quickly, with fewer constraints and more support. this europe must stand by those who suffer, if it is not by those who suffer, by those who have lost their homes, by those who have died, by those who must stand by? how can our citizens understand us if we are not present on these, at least on these, occasions?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to renew my solidarity with the people affected, with those who have lost their homes, with those who are victims of an earthquake that shows no sign of ending, of three seismic events concentrated in a very short space of time. i think it is important in this chamber to also express my gratitude to those who are managing the emergency themselves, to all those organisations, such as the active solidarity brigades, which provide assistance and comfort to the affected women and men every day. i think that europe must decide whether the stability of its banks or the stability of its citizens is more important. and it is clear that the withdrawal from the stability pact and the activation of the fund is a necessary measure, but it is not a sufficient measure. for example, there are not enough technicians to carry out the inspections today, and some have been waiting for them since the first earthquake on august 24. i think it is necessary to combat the depopulation of the mountain areas and to prevent them from being built in that area, as paradoxically the renzi government is about to do, mega incinerators and even a snam oil pipeline. projects that would have been crazy anyway and are even grotesque at this point.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since its inception, the solidarity fund has proved to be very useful in helping people in 24 different countries who are in difficulty because of some 70 natural disasters, making available eur 3.8 billion. it is one of the symbols of the european union in terms of solidarity, to meet those who have sometimes lost everything they own. we shall vote tomorrow morning on an instrument which, however, is perfect. the report by mr cico, for which i am grateful, goes in this direction: it is a question of improving the instrument, because the improvement profiles are certainly there. we shall also be voting tomorrow on a budgetary transfer, so that 50 million euro can be made available to the fund immediately, to meet the realisation of the advances and not wait - as sometimes happens unfortunately - for a delay to arrive at the disbursement of the sums. i have heard colleagues in this chamber argue against the possibility of excluding investment in earthquake prevention or reconstruction from the calculations of the stability pact. as an italian and a european, i believe that every euro spent to prevent deaths and disasters, to help people in need, should be spent and saved from the rigid rules of austerity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is going through a very difficult time. the shock is not yet over and the earthquakes continue, one a day, even more every day. the time for showing solidarity has passed, but the regions concerned are now calling on europe to apply and act on two principles: flexibility and simplification. the procedures and the time-limits for applying the solidarity fund are long and the advance will be used to start acting, but flexibility and simplification are needed above all to intervene with the structural funds. the budgetary constraints must be strictly excluded from reconstruction expenditure, as well as from prevention expenditure. because while it is true that earthquakes are unfortunately unpredictable, it demonstrates the inadequacy of public structures and houses in the major seismic areas of italy and the need to make them safe now. what has collapsed in italy is a piece of europe and we are not asking europe to replace our local administrations, but we are asking europe to put our government and our regions in a position to invest, to rebuild and to modernise, because otherwise these constraints, more than constraints, would be insurmountable obstacles.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the non-italian members who have shown their solidarity with such a large part of our country which continues to be subject to continuous earthquakes. that's easy for you to say. living every day and every night, in fear that the earth will open again, means living in conditions of total precariousness and unfortunately in our country almost every year there are devastating earthquakes. after l'aquila, there was emilia romagna, there was veneto, there was lombardy and this summer, two continuous tremors. we were all there, all of us, in the quake zone. the earth has continued to shake near rome and people are living in a constant state of instability. the impression is because there are continuous aftershocks, maybe 2.2 and 2.3, which do not cause damage, but always give the impression of living on a ground that is not solid, that is not stable. so, for this reason, i think it's important to realize the difficulties that are there, the damage that earthquakes continue to cause. i am glad that the president of the commission has decided to make a personal commitment, including to rebuild the church of st benedict in norcia. we have also heard the commissioner's words. the advance of 30 million euros is welcome, but we must support tourism and perhaps also, using the horizon 2020 package, try to use funds for seismic research. because the situation is much more serious than anyone can imagine and your fellow citizens have also died. it is not only italian citizens who have died, but also romanian citizens, european citizens who were working and living in our country. so, again, the call is to realise what the exceptional situation is, also in terms of prevention. i don't know if it's right or wrong to touch the stability pact. i do not think that the stability pact in general should be touched upon, but i think that in this particular situation we should look at it very carefully. it is right to have public accounts in order, but here we are in such an emergency situation that only those who have seen it, who have lived it and know it can realise how serious it is, how much damage there can be and how much fear there can be in the future. it's not easy living 365 days a year with the pressure of the constant fear of having to die, of having your house fall down on you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as my predecessors have said, the earth is still trembling in the heart of italy, of that italy which represents in europe stories of civilization and great beauty: the european union is not only a great country, but also a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, a great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great nation, great great nation, great great great nation, great great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great overcoming the constraints which make reconstruction difficult today is not in the interests of any one government, but must be part of the objectives of a europe which is the guardian of its territorial realities, which in this case represent italy, which does not resign itself to the inevitability of its destiny. today, faced with a politically significant commitment by the italian government, which declares that it will take a firm stand against the reconstruction of the housing stock, but also of the enterprise in that territory and not only, in an intervention never carried out in our country, that of the safeguarding of public and private property, europe cannot remain indifferent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner crețu, i appreciated your honesty, including your language. we have received here in parliament yesterday some students and teachers from the prefabricated school which has been set up in amatrice, one of the most affected municipalities, together with norcia and many others. i explained that europe would be close to them. the priorities of the italian government, as you know, have been the protection of the citizens, the immediate reopening of schools, the provision of prefabricated housing, which is finally beginning to be, after the containers, the continuation of economic activities, such as livestock, agriculture and small businesses, the safeguarding of houses and the great cultural heritage of the earthquake zones. but europe must do its part by allowing a greater degree of flexibility in the calculation of the deficit, by excluding from the stability pact, as has been said, investment in reconstruction and prevention, while we appreciate, and i say this to commissioner crețu, the availability and advance payment of the 30 million from the solidarity fund. but it is necessary, and i hope there will be a great deal of openness on this, to also amend the operational plans of the structural funds, in order to invest in the prevention and quality of the earthquake-resistant reconstruction which affects the whole apennine belt in italy. i also thank president juncker for his willingness, which is also reiterated here, to help rebuild the basilica of st benedict of nursia, which we remember is the patron saint of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolutely positive resolution, which recognizes, on the basis of the extraordinary exceptional nature of the italian case, both the efforts being made by the government and the need to be better prepared for the risks of extraordinary events. the proposal to amend the solidarity fund regulation is certainly a step forward, since it speeds up procedures, streamlines and makes the disbursement of resources more immediate than the decision itself; it's a way of getting closer to the needs of the citizens. but it goes further, and i thank all the colleagues with whom we worked on the final draft, because it recognizes that in the face of exceptional situations we cannot simply wait, but must prevent and minimise risks. that is why it will be important to vote tomorrow and to approve paragraphs 6 and 7, not only to ask for the greatest possible flexibility, but also to reiterate the urgency and the exclusion from the stability and growth pact of the investments made through the structural funds to secure the most vulnerable territories and areas. this is not an italian request. there is a large area in mediterranean and eastern europe which, as the same resolution acknowledges, is highly at risk from natural events. it is a requirement of the whole of europe to enable a strategic plan for securing, facilitating and derogating from the rules of the stability and growth pact. we owe it to all european citizens. so thank you so much for this discussion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for your very specific statement. the earthquake of 24 august and the subsequent one last october, as many of us have said, profoundly affected the economy of several regions of central italy and destroyed entire villages, wiped out the lives of many people. and unfortunately the earthquake is still going on. in the face of such a sad and problematic situation, it is more necessary and urgent than ever that the european institutions express and show their closeness to the affected populations by granting italy access to the european union solidarity fund and accelerating the procedures for the disbursement of the funding. the economic recovery of the regions of central italy hit by the earthquake must be speeded up, so as to restore serenity and hope to thousands of families. and i believe that in general, at a particularly difficult time in the history of european integration, in such dramatic circumstances, the union's closeness to the needs of its citizens and the union's readiness to intervene, a concrete readiness to intervene to restore dignity and hope to people, must be demonstrated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is one of the regions of europe most exposed to earthquake risk. its history is entirely marked by this kind of calamitous events. the recent earthquakes that have leveled entire countries and disrupted the lives of tens of thousands of people are natural disasters caused by geological factors and are therefore bound to recur periodically. the serious situation must lead us to encourage the optimum use of all available resources, creating synergies between the various existing funds, including the structural funds and the european investment fund, and ensuring that resources are used effectively for reconstruction activities and all other necessary interventions, in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities. i thank the commissioner for her reassurance. on the basis of what has already been proposed in a letter to president juncker, i join the call of many colleagues to exclude from the calculation of the national deficit under the stability and growth pact investments for sustainable reconstruction and for anti-seismic operations.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that there is a joint effort of great responsibility and great balance, and it is a joint effort which, as you have said, concerns all the member states. italy would have preferred to do without this allocation of funds, but it would also have preferred to do without the deaths and it is a demolition of a cultural, entrepreneurial system, of men, women and young people who today find themselves living the drama of the loss of the things that are most important to them. it is clear that we have finally entered the ordinary of response management, because the times, in relation to these situations, cannot be the usual ones, they cannot be those, as it were, inserted into the cauldron of the ordinary. if it is called an emergency, if it is called a grave emergency, if it is called a restoration of hope, i think it is normal that the timing is the most appropriate and therefore the most appropriate. and as you know, much better than i do, the 30 million is the ceiling provided for in the regulation, as you yourself have mentioned. we appreciate the work we are all doing as a matter of priority, but at the same time we do not want to dwell on an aspect which concerns a very complex matter, namely the national deficit, the budget deficit, which is a structural problem which pertains to the country system. but what we ask in the resolution, especially in paragraph 7, is that in specific cases, not for italy, but for all specific cases, there should be the possibility that the structural funds with cofinancing and all the funds allocated, not so much to emergency intervention, but to what then means prevention and therefore lower costs in the event that the same drama should be triggered again. so there is also, as it were, the possibility of consolidating the territories, restructuring them and investing in seismic protection. so we are not populists. we have no desire to be critical. we want to be positive, especially towards you for the appreciated work you are doing, but at the same time we will ask this parliament to approve this passage and then of course refer it to the competence of the commissioners you have mentioned.
in writing. in view of the serious situation of the earthquake-affected areas, it is necessary to exclude from the calculation of national government deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention and to consider extending the existing calculation of the solidarity fund, which is currently based on the effects of damage caused by a single catastrophic event, to a cumulative calculation of damage caused by several natural disasters in the same region in a year. i would also like to stress the importance of complying with the requirements for the construction of seismic infrastructure and buildings. having noted the request for assistance from the european union solidarity fund submitted by the italian government, i call on the commission to take all necessary steps to examine requests for assistance from the fund in a timely manner in order to ensure that it is mobilised swiftly.
in writing. the earthquakes in central italy in 2016 affected homes, culture, people and loved ones. we must act quickly and effectively, not only to ensure a decent life but also, and above all, to secure these areas and the whole country. these are absolutely necessary and urgent measures and, thanks to our support, the resolution adopted calls on the commission to allow the withdrawal of investment for reconstruction from the debt account in order to comply with the stability pact. this is a very important achievement for our country, and we hope that the commission will take a decision to this effect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the rapporteur, mr durand, is quite right when he says that after events such as those which have affected former commissioner barroso, we must act and act quickly, the credibility of the european institutions is at stake. it is clear that if a new code of conduct for commissioners is to come, this new code must be written by an independent committee. i also think that the independent committee should be able to act autonomously, uninfluenced by the balance and internal politics of the institutions. we need tougher sanctions. the weight of the sanctions must be commensurate with the offence, if any, and must also have a deterrent effect, which is also important in these cases. the time between the end of a job and the start of a new career must be longer, but i would add that for some jobs it will even be necessary to rule out the possibility of future employment by commissioners.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the control of declarations of financial interests and, more generally, of potential conflicts of interest concerning the members of the commission cannot be confined to the appointment procedure alone. any substantial change in the financial interests of a commissioner in office or any allocation of responsibilities between the members of the commission must be subject to a procedure of examination by parliament. the declaration of financial interests must include any current or past interests or assets of a financial, professional or personal nature, including extended family, over the last two years. the commission must review and tighten the code of conduct to adhere to high ethical standards and ensure that the declaration of financial interests provides parliament and the public with accurate information. it is essential to extend the period of incompatibility from the current 18 months to at least five years for commissioners and the president of the commission. stricter standards are certainly not sufficient to ensure ethical behaviour, but they are undoubtedly an indispensable starting point towards a more transparent relationship.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european centre for disease prevention and control reports that from 2012 to 2015, the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance has increased enormously. the united nations is calling antibiotic resistance a public health emergency on par with ebola and aids, which are being celebrated on world aids day tomorrow. the misuse of antibiotics is therefore another major european and italian challenge, exacerbated by the overuse of antibiotics in livestock farming. italy is the third largest european user of antibiotics in livestock, with critical cases in intensive care units. 71% of the milk sold in italy goes to farm animals and 94% of the treatments are mass-produced. this mode of use makes the emergence of superbugs increasingly likely, as does the risk of spread from livestock to humans, raising the number of deaths due to their resistance, some 7 000 in italy alone. so there is no other way to counter antibiotic resistance than to significantly reduce it. i call on the commission to adopt guidelines on the correct use of antibiotics in humans and animals and to do more in the implementation and enforcement of measures and in the coordination of health and agricultural policies, to increase the effectiveness of european action against antibiotic resistance.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, you have invited the council to intervene on a topic of common concern: how to combat racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance. we very much share your preoccupation. the evidence from different sources such as the eu agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe confirms an alarming increase of intolerance and hatred in europe. there might be several reasons explaining this worrying phenomenon, but let me be clear on this: there can be no justification for it. the eu has adopted specific legislation on combating intolerance and hatred, in particular the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. the presidency is aware that the commission is currently looking into the national laws of the member states to assess the framework and to ensure its correct implementation. only a few months ago, in june, the council reminded member states of the need to ensure the effective transposition and implementation of the framework decision and other relevant laws at national level to counter the plight of hate crimes. in addition, the council asked member states to develop effective methods to report and ensure proper recording of hate crimes. it is also worth mentioning that the council has adopted a directive that prohibits discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin. it has been in place for more than 15 years and it is an important tool in the fight against racial discrimination. as for the future: we need to combine our actions and strengthen the existing cooperation between institutions. in this context, i would like to recall the important step made last june, when the council responded positively to the commission’s list of actions to advance lgbti equality. the council invited the commission to promote the measures outlined in that list and report regularly on the progress achieved. the council has likewise invited the member states to take action to combat discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. the council has also consistently supported the efforts of the eu and its member states to improve the situation of the roma, which is europe’s largest ethnic minority. moreover, in the context of interinstitutional cooperation, the council has supported the ambitious plan of the new commission high-level group seeking to develop with member states concrete practices and tools to improve responses to racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. we also welcome the ongoing eu-level dialogue with major it companies, in cooperation with member states, to address online hate speech. last but not least, we should remember and commend the remarkable work done by the fundamental rights agency in this field. let me stress once again that racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance are incompatible with our common values and principles. according to the legal framework in place they can even constitute a crime that should be prosecuted. there is indeed no exception from this for politicians abusing the freedom of expression by inciting to violence or hatred. our role – and on this i count on your support – is to remind ourselves of our responsibility for what we say. words have power, including the power to harm. for this reason, freedom of expression has its limits. it is our common responsibility to find the right balance, and this is never an easy task. i look forward to your debates, honourable members, and i thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, commissioner jourová sends her apologies for being unable to attend this morning. she asked me to replace her and i am glad to do so. increasing fear and high rates of verbal and physical violence against ethnic, religious or other minorities across europe are – and remain – a major concern. as we never get tired of reiterating, the commission condemns all manifestations of racism, xenophobia, homophobia and all other forms of intolerance as these are incompatible with the values and principles upon which the european union is founded. i personally believe that we all, collectively and individually, have the duty to fight against intolerance and hatred and reject all of its expressions. political and opinion leaders bear, in this regard, a particularly important responsibility since racist, xenophobic and other attitudes of intolerance expressed by leaders are, by their very nature, incompatible with the responsibilities they are called upon to fulfil. they also contribute to a climate in which hatred and intolerance become normalised. history should have taught us to be wary. but for those who live in the here-and-now, very recent events have shown that this is not simply a theoretical issue, but a very real danger. i commend the efforts that this place, the european parliament, makes in ensuring that incitement to hatred pronounced by its members is taken seriously and addressed. public condemnation of racism and xenophobia by the authorities, political parties and civil society contributes to acknowledging the seriousness of these phenomena and actively fighting against racist and xenophobic speech and behaviour. in the commission prevention and the fight against racism, xenophobia and all other forms of intolerance are shared priorities. the fact that we devoted the first annual colloquium on fundamental rights to combating racism and intolerance last year reflects that commitment. the commission appointed two commission coordinators to contribute to combating hate crime, hate speech and intolerance by engaging and listening to the community’s concerns with regard to two particular forms of racism and xenophobia which have reared their heads: anti-semitism and anti-muslim hatred. to give one illustration, in 2015 jews were the target of 40% of all racist crimes committed in france and, as the november fundamental rights agency report on hate crime and the current migration situation puts it, muslims experience increased hostility as they are often perceived as perpetrators or sympathisers of terrorist attacks or for being part of a refugee movement seen as threatening safety and security. the commission is acutely aware of this developing narrative and will continue to speak out forcefully against such stigmatisation and incitement to hatred against certain communities. we are also working with member states to ensure they effectively enforce the legislation criminalising illegal hate speech, with particular regard to the eu’s framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law, which concerns, as you know, the public incitement to violence and hatred on grounds of race, colour, religion, descent, national or ethnic origin. this legislation applies to incitement to violence or hatred, online and offline, including statements by political and opinion leaders. in the bilateral dialogues we have with member states to ensure the correct transposition and implementation of this instrument, we have raised a series of issues and concerns. as a result, in the past two years, six member states have made amendments to their criminal law to bring their legislation in line with the framework decision. commissioner jourová strongly reiterated the importance of ensuring correct transposition and effective implementation of the instrument at the justice and home affairs council on 14 october and urged national governments to do everything possible to ensure that national provisions can be swiftly and fully aligned to the eu rules and, just as importantly, that they are applied in practice. member states’ law enforcement authorities and courts remain competent to investigate, prosecute and try individual cases of hate speech and hate crime. so it is only through working together with the member states and other key actors, including civil society, that we can make a real difference on the ground, supporting national efforts to ensure implementation of the rules and to set up effective policies to prevent and combat this phenomenon. it is a matter of building the necessary commitment, capacity and making available resources and tools. the eu high level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance is a unique platform for the exchange of best practice, guidance, strengthening cooperation and synergies, bringing together the key actors: civil society, community representatives, eu agencies, in particular the fundamental rights agency, and relevant international organisations, including the un, osce and the council of europe. the engagement of the european parliament intergroup against racism with this high level group is very welcome. we need to join our efforts to achieve common objectives. the group is focusing on issues such as how to improve awareness, enhance the effectiveness of investigations and prosecutions, better address under-reporting and ensure adequate victims’ support. the group is discussing forms of intolerance in order to develop and improve targeted responses. one priority for the high level group is to help all member states develop sound methodologies for recording and collecting data on hate crimes, which can often go unreported or get mistaken for other offences. this work is carried out by a specific sub-group led by the eu agency for fundamental rights and that met for the first time in october. we have also taken important steps to counter illegal hate speech on the internet. a code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online was agreed by the commission with facebook, twitter, microsoft and youtube in may this year. we will present a preliminary assessment of the work in this area on 7 december. we are also looking at how to support further the role of the media and ethical journalism in promoting fundamental rights and to ensure that a pluralistic media environment can foster political debate on crucial issues for democratic societies. these and other related issues were at the heart of the discussion at this year’s annual colloquium on fundamental rights, which first vice-president frans timmermans hosted together with commissioners oettinger and jourová earlier in november. furthermore, we have consistently supported concrete projects to prevent racism, xenophobia homophobia and other forms of intolerance under the rights, equality and citizenship programme. through the new call for proposals, which is now open, we are making available eur 6 million for projects in this area. in addition, the radicalisation awareness network (ran) continues to support frontline practitioners and civil society actors to effectively address the challenges of radicalisation and polarisation at a local level. practitioners are concerned about how violent, extremist, racist groups, on one hand, or daesh, on the other, exploit the refugee crisis to promote their own poisonous narratives. within the ran practitioners are developing practical approaches and ways to address and prevent polarisation in schools and local communities with the objective of supporting a cohesive and inclusive society and reaching out to all communities. they will look into more effective ways of countering different types of extremist propaganda, including xenophobic propaganda, also drawing on the expertise within the european strategic communications network. everybody should be able to enjoy their fundamental rights. we are all entitled to the respect of our right to non-discrimination, to human dignity, to life, to integrity of the person, and to protection from violence. that is why the high level group will also include exchanges on the intolerance and violence suffered by members of the lgbti community. all that said, notwithstanding our efforts and the results we have achieved so far, we know there is a lot more to be done. we are ready to report regularly on the progress made and evaluate the need for further actions, and we count on your continued support as well as your constructive engagement.
the european union is a party to the convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, and we are all in favour of it. it is urgent that the framework decision explicitly condemns the islamophobia, anti-semitism, anti-gypsyism and homophobia which are polluting our countries and even our common institutions. it is a serious matter that commissioner oettinger's attacks on women, gays, chinese, become a normal thing. it is also a matter of language, we are not united by abstract values but by precise norms. if there is a union demos, it is because of this regulatory pact: the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that every free individual, especially in times of high immigration, has multiple belongings, multiple identities. assimilation has a unique identity, it breeds violence. i would prefer to see integration in accordance with the rules rather than the word assimilation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the member states have transposed the european anti-discrimination directives into their national law, and yet we are witnessing a significant increase in incidents of violence, of racist and xenophobic origin, and the emergence of new forms of discrimination, such as afrophobia, against which the member states have not yet adopted joint strategies to combat. legislation alone is not enough to guarantee full equality of treatment, just as social condemnation is not enough to stop the wave of hatred that is spreading across europe. what we really need is a greater political awareness of the phenomenon in order to build an alternative cultural and social model, so that the value of pluralism and integration is affirmed as a common heritage. and, together with this, more decisive action against those who, while holding political and institutional positions, incite and foment hatred and intolerance. racism can never be a tool of political struggle and must be condemned.
in writing. tackling incidents of hate speech and hate crimes based on racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance must be a priority objective in defining european anti-discrimination and justice policies. in a european union based on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, there continues to be both social divisions and the spread of dangerous and irrational hatred towards minorities, foreigners and in general towards those perceived as different. the public sphere and the internet are also affected by such phenomena, both by individuals and by political forces that often exploit socioeconomic crises. at the social, cultural, information and criminal levels, the member states must play a leading role in adopting appropriate measures to prevent, report and prosecute intolerant, violent and discriminatory crimes and behaviour which undermine peaceful civil coexistence and offend human dignity.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time that we have discussed the situation in the democratic republic of the congo and, despite our resolutions, i believe that our common words are still far from being the effort we should be making. we have not yet adopted that very important conflict minerals legislation, which could finally allow us to put strong pressure, even on those multinationals that are currently supporting de facto quasi-dictatorial regimes like the one we have right now. a president who wants to carry out a constitutional coup d'état, who still does not accept, to return the country to free elections. and in the meantime, in the north kivu region alone, we have had 1,100 people killed and 1,500 people kidnapped. i still remember the words and the teaching of denis mukvege, our 2014 sakharov prize winner, when he spoke of women's bodies as a battlefield. what's changed? we must not only have strong action, strong and individual sanctions against the governmental officials responsible for these atrocities, but above all we must bring this country back to free elections, which can really make this country a democratic republic again. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr kalev mutond, director-general of the national intelligence agency of the democratic republic of the congo, mr john numbi, former inspector-general of the congolese police, general ilunga kampete, commander of the republican guard, mr gabriel amisi, commander of the army in the western region of the country, and mr célestin kanyama, chief of police in kinshasa; these men, among many others, are responsible for confiscating democracy in the drc, violently repressing freedom of demonstration, and preventing a peaceful and constitutional transition of power, which justifies targeted sanctions. the holding of free, credible and transparent elections in accordance with the constitution and international law, as soon as possible, is the only way to end the political and humanitarian crisis in the drc. let us give the drc a future, young congolese men and women must take back all the instruments of democracy. i thank the high representative for her commitment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i tried to get the president's attention earlier because on the geier dossier i voted against all three amendments, but the machine did not work. i wanted to bring this to the attention of the presidency so that it could be taken into account.
we'll take note of your report, thank you.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to change the scope of article 136 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 i.e. customs code by distinguishing between union and non-union goods. the first port of call for many goods from non-eu countries is not the place where the goods are destined, but other ports where fuel is often cheaper. this means that different rules and obligations apply to ships and the cargo they carry, depending on the first port of call (even if different from the actual port of destination). this is likely to result in import duties and other charges not being collected correctly and in veterinary and plant health checks not being carried out effectively. i voted in favour of this resolution to overcome these differences.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the grapini report on the union customs code as regards goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air. this is an important text that aims to fill a gap in regulation (eu) no 952/2013. the current wording of article 136 of that regulation has in fact had negative consequences for the customs authorities, which have encountered several obstacles in the performance of their supervisory functions. today they are not in a position to collect import duties properly, to apply non-tax measures such as health checks properly and to identify risks associated with goods arriving at the various ports and airports in the eu. the amendments will ensure that the legislation is more effective, that equal treatment of goods is restored and that the overall action of the authorities is strengthened.
in writing. this measure will enable the customs authorities of the member states to carry out the necessary customs surveillance activities on goods which only temporarily leave the territory of the eu. the text is acceptable and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code have revealed certain shortcomings in its drafting. for article 136, the competent authorities of the member states do not have a legal basis for applying provisions concerning the lodging of the entry summary declaration, the notification of the arrival of a ship or aircraft, the transport and presentation of goods to customs, the waiting for an authorisation before unloading or transhipping the goods, temporary storage. in the absence of a clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods to customs authorities, the latter are effectively hampered in their customs supervision functions, insofar as they are unable to correctly collect import duties and other charges, correctly apply non-fiscal measures such as health checks, identify risks related to goods arriving at their ports or airports. the current proposal to amend article 136 aims to fill this gap and to ensure equal treatment of goods.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i gave my consent to the amendment of the union customs code which gives the competent authorities of the member states a legal basis for the application of provisions concerning goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. in the absence of a clear legal basis, customs authorities are effectively hampered in their customs supervision functions, being unable to properly collect import duties and other charges, and to properly apply non-tax measures such as health checks, and to identify risks related to goods arriving at their ports or airports. the amendment aims to fill this gap, to ensure equal treatment of goods and to restore the legal basis established by the old customs code.
in writing. ‒ today, many goods from outside the eu arrive at their first port in the union not at the place where the goods are destined, but at ports such as malta, where fuel is cheaper. a ship delivering goods to the netherlands after a stopover in malta may therefore not be subject to the same arrival obligations in the eu. the current wording of article 136 means that there is no clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of such goods to the customs authorities in the netherlands after a ship has stopped in malta. the basis for this was the following prior to the application of the customs code: regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 on common rules for the internal market in electricity. if the goods are not presented at a dutch port, because there is no obligation, it may be difficult for the dutch authorities to ensure their supervision and there is a risk that import duties and other charges are not correctly collected and that veterinary and phytosanitary checks are not carried out. it is therefore essential to propose a change in the scope of article 136 of the code, distinguishing between union and non-union goods. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report, for which i thought i would vote in favour, amends article 136 of the new union customs code which entered into force in 2013 in order to simplify and rationalise customs arrangements through standardisation of controls in individual member states. i think that the article in question should be amended, since it provides that certain provisions do not apply to goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by a direct line between two points in that territory by sea or air without a stopover outside the union, thus jeopardising the effective customs supervision of those goods. it is therefore essential that the customs authorities have a clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods and for exercising their fiscal and health surveillance functions. i believe that the european union customs code should be designed to facilitate legitimate trade while ensuring adequate supervision to combat fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it will allow the customs authorities of the member states to apply appropriate legal instruments to goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 952/2013 as it has some deep flaws despite having entered into force last may. it is considered that action should be taken as soon as possible in the light of the practical implications of goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the deficiencies referred to are caused by the lack of a sound legal basis allowing the competent authorities of the member states to apply provisions concerning the lodging of the entry summary declaration, the transport and the presentation of goods to customs at the time of unloading or transhipment or temporary storage. this means that the authorities are unable to correctly collect import duties and other charges, to apply non-tax measures such as health checks and to identify risks related to incoming goods. once these critical issues are understood, it is clear that the union customs code needs to be smoothed over as soon as possible in order to operate efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure to amend article 136 of the union customs code (ucc) in response to the concerns of the customs authorities of the member states. the measure clarifies the legal situation as regards the customs supervision of goods entering the union through a seaport or an airport but continuing their journey. the measure is intended to increase the list of customs control provisions necessary for goods in transit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal because i consider it necessary to fill the gaps that have accompanied the entry into force of the provisions relating to the union customs code. in particular, i believe it is essential to ensure equal treatment of goods and to re-establish the legal basis provided for by the previous customs code.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report to allow customs supervision, to collect duties properly, to provide for health checks and to carry out security checks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the union customs code, which is being simplified and made more suitable for cases of temporary transfer of goods leaving the eu territory by air or sea. we have used an accelerated procedure for the adoption of this amendment, but i think it is important to stress the importance of a measure which makes the european economy more competitive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to remedy certain obvious problems. assessing the implementation of the rules imposed by the european union is essential to correct their malfunctioning where necessary. the customs union, a great success of the united europe, is not working as we would like and the operators tell us so. the weakest aspect is precisely the controls and checks on goods, which are not effective and have major gaps. this is particularly serious when it comes to health checks: we must not forget how the xylella virus that has affected our olive groves entered europe. it is at customs that the mechanisms for alerting to infected or sick products can and must be triggered. and it is just as serious that we are not able to exercise the right controls over the quantities we import. the european union's trade policy allows imports from several third countries to enter europe, often at zero duty, which does not have to mean zero control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the union customs code, as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. supporting the proposal of amending article 136 potentially represents ensuring an equal treatment of goods as well as providing the legal basis established in the old customs code. by amending the aforementioned article, the authorities will be able to, according to the report, ‘correctly levy import duty and other charges; correctly apply non-fiscal measures such as sanitary controls; and identify risks on goods arriving’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal put forward by my colleagues because i believe that the eu customs code, which entered into full force with regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council, has numerous regulatory gaps. under article 136, the competent authorities of the individual member states do not have the legal basis on which to exercise some of the provisions laid down in the customs code, for example the notification of the arrival of a seagoing vessel or an aircraft. in my political opinion, the current proposal to amend article 136 aims to fill this gap and at the same time to ensure equal treatment of goods. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the union customs code as regards goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the eu by sea or air. the full entry into force of the provisions of that regulation has in fact revealed certain shortcomings in its drafting. under the current article 136, the competent authorities of the member states do not have a legal basis to apply provisions concerning the lodging of the entry summary declaration, the notification of the arrival of a ship, the transport and presentation of goods to customs at the time of unloading, the waiting for an authorisation before unloading or transhipping the goods and temporary storage. in the absence of a clear legal basis to require the presentation of goods to customs authorities, customs authorities are effectively hampered in their customs supervision functions to the extent that they are unable to correctly collect import duties, correctly apply non-tax measures and identify risks related to goods arriving at their ports or airports. the current proposal to amend article 136 aims to fill these gaps.
in writing. today, many non-eu goods arrive in the eu not at their final destination but at ports such as malta, where fuel is cheaper. in addition, a ship delivering goods to the netherlands, after stopping in malta, may not be subject to the same arrival obligations in the eu. the current text means that there is no clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of such goods to the customs authorities in the netherlands after a ship has stopped in malta. if goods are not presented at the final port as coming from outside the eu, as there is no obligation, it may be difficult for the authorities to monitor them and there is a risk that import duties and other charges are not correctly collected and that veterinary and phytosanitary checks are not carried out. we in the m5s fought for the text to be changed and for a clear distinction to be made between eu goods and non-eu goods. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to postpone by one year to 1 january 2018 the date of application of the priips regulation on key information documents for pre-packaged retail investment and insurance products, in order to reduce legal uncertainty and allow businesses more time to adapt to the new rules. although this is only a technical change, it favours businesses without providing any advantage to consumers. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the béres report on the proposal for a regulation on key information documents for pre-assembled retail investment and insurance products as regards the date of application. on 30 june 2016, the commission adopted a delegated regulation laying down a number of new measures including those for the presentation and content of the key information document for retail investment products, its standardised format, the minimum frequency of review of the information contained therein and the methodology for the presentation of risk and return. the text adopted today, which is highly technical in nature, meets parliament's requests last september for a 12-month extension of application, to give those concerned more time to comply with the new requirements. the date was then postponed to 1 january 2018.
in writing. i do not entirely agree with some of the points in this text, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 introduced a number of measures to improve investor protection and to restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing transparency in the retail investment market. it requires retail pre-packaged investment product initiators and insurance companies to produce a key information document. the regulation authorises the european supervisory authorities (esas) to develop regulatory technical standards to specify the elements contained in the information document. in april 2016, aes submitted the commission's draft regulatory technical standards in the key information document, and the commission approved the draft in june 2016, adopting the delegated regulation on the text of the information document. the council did not object to the delegated regulation but the european parliament rejected it in september 2016 and asked the commission to review the provisions on priips and the performance scenarios. it also requested a postponement of the date of application of that regulation. the proposal provides for a 12-month delay in order to ensure legal certainty in this area and to allow for the preparation of new rules.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to strengthen the protection of retail investors investing in retail investment products and pre-packaged insurance. the designers of pre-packaged retail investment and insurance products will have to comply with a uniform set of product disclosure requirements. the information provided should enable retail investors to better understand the economic nature and risks of a given product and to compare offers. greater transparency and harmonisation will also benefit the internal market in financial services by creating a level playing field between the various products and distribution channels. however, i think it is essential to clarify further the regulatory technical standards on the key information document for retail investment and pre-packaged insurance products.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to postpone by one year the date of application of the priips regulation on key information documents for retail investment products. although this is only a technical change to the legislation, it is in fact a clear benefit for manufacturers without any positive return for consumers; i therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in order to renew consumer confidence in the financial services industry following the financial crisis, i voted in favour of the report which provides for a 12-month extension of the date of application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014. that regulation provides that retail investors are to receive a document containing the key information to better understand the nature and risks of a particular product and to be able to compare different offers. i believe, however, that in order to harmonise the legal framework, it is necessary to draw up technical rules specifying the presentation and content of this document. i therefore believe that postponing the date of application of the regulation, in order to allow the development of such rules, is essential for the effective application of the regulation. i am convinced that in order to achieve the objective of restoring the confidence of investors in the financial services and products market, it is essential to strengthen its protection by ensuring greater information and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to postpone by 12 months the date of application of the regulation on key information documents for the retail sale of investment products. it would have been more appropriate to have acted quickly on this subject by adopting a clear and transparent regulation. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the amendment of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014; given the opportunities and, together, the risks associated with pre-packaged retail investment and insurance products, clear and pragmatic regulation is essential. i also agree with the 12-month extension granted to suppliers of these products to comply fully with the new requirements. the aim of the regulation is to enable the less well-informed consumer to be informed more easily, more immediately and more effectively about financial products, and who therefore needs coordinated and comparable information to understand their characteristics. in short, the basic question is to improve investor protection and to restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector through greater market transparency. the specific features of presentation, content, format and methodology for calculating costs and risk are at the heart of this regulation precisely because of its comprehensive consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in accordance with the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following report as i consider it necessary to grant the european securities and markets authority (emsa) and the commission a 12-month extension for the purpose of applying the retail regulation and the insured investment products regulation. i consider that this timeframe is sufficient for the relevant bodies to make changes to the initial draft, with particular reference to the assignment of risk classes for insured investment product issuers and the presentation of transaction costs.
in writing. ‒ i abstain, i would have preferred a more urgent deadline for the date of application.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank my colleague, ms pervenche berès, for completing this important dossier, which introduces measures to improve investor protection and strengthen consumer confidence. transparency is key to reviving the financial sector: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investments products as regards the date of its application. the report proposes the production of a key information document (kid). this document will include elements such as presentation of risk and reward, the calculation of costs, the conditions for reviewing the information contained within the document, and information that will be provided to retail investors. having said that, the adoption of the report and the kid will represent our continued efforts aiming at enhancing investor protection and rebuilding consumer trust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that regulation no 1286/ 2014 of the european parliament and of the council introduced new and important measures aimed at improving investor protection on the one hand and restoring consumer confidence in financial services by ensuring greater transparency on the other. this enhanced consumer protection is essentially based on the requirement for the manufacturer of a pre-assembled retail investment and insurance product to provide a document containing the relevant information. in addition, regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 gives the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority more power to develop additional consumer protection documents. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today aims to postpone by one year the date of application of the priips regulation on key information documents for the retail sale of investment products. on 6 april 2016, the european supervisory authorities jointly submitted to the commission regulatory technical standards for retail investment and pre-packaged insurance products, which were approved by delegated act. the council subsequently did not object during the review period but on 14 september 2016 the european parliament objected by asking the commission to postpone the date of application of the regulation to allow the industries to adapt to the new rules. the commission therefore submitted a new proposal delaying the entry into force by 12 months, until 1 january 2018, in order to reduce legal uncertainty and to give more time for industries to adapt to the new rules. although this is only a technical change to the legislation, it is in fact a clear benefit to the producers of investment without any positive return for consumers. that is why i abstained during the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of kiribati travelling to the other territory for a maximum period of 90 days within a 180-day period. this exemption applies to all categories of persons who undertake travel other than for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report on the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and for citizens of kiribati who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 countries in the pacific region, including the republic of kiribati. the visa waiver agreement is further evidence of europe's commitment to this region, to a partnership that strengthens economic relations and to a balanced, regular and in-depth political dialogue on all the issues that remain priorities for the union.
in writing. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and kiribati citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure does not raise any particular problems, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the republic of kiribati is a country which has arrived at a modern form of democracy, which looks to the west and to the development of the rule of law, despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its internal social problems and the difficult relationship with some countries in the pacific area. europe as a whole can look to the republic of kiribati as a friendly democracy which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation, in a manner consistent with the provisions of the cotonou convention whose main objective, as expressed in article 1, is the reduction and ultimately the elimination of poverty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation in question, which supports the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement is a useful instrument for improving economic relations and enhancing cooperation on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the government of kiribati has made considerable progress in fulfilling its international obligations. it has adopted the 2011-2021 action plan which signals a strong response to sexual and gender-based violence. in this context, the union has the opportunity to establish a balanced and constructive political dialogue on these issues, which are at the heart of the eu's principles. it will be for the commission and the authorities of kiribati to ensure full reciprocity of the visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and kiribati citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. this exemption covers all categories of persons travelling for all types of purposes, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the republic of kiribati has made significant progress in meeting its international human rights obligations and in achieving the millennium development goals. i believe that this progress also demonstrates the commitment of this region to deepening relations with the european union. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of this commitment. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the agreement is a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations between the two parties and for confirming the commitments made under the cotonou agreement. i also believe that simplifying travel conditions will have a positive effect on investment and tourism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the republic of kiribati, which was signed by the commission in brussels on 23 june. this makes the visa-free regime for eu and kiribati citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period permanent. the exemption covers all categories of persons, irrespective of the reason for their stay, provided that they are not engaged in gainful employment. the basic question is to strengthen economic and cultural relations by facilitating investment and tourism. to date, kiribati's economy is predominantly based on fishing (25% of gdp), while tourism is rather limited. the commission and the authorities of kiribati shall be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the agreement. in the middle of the pacific, straddling the equator and the date line, the kiribati islands were among the last to be discovered by european explorers, and the union is determined to channel a political dialogue with them. the country does not pose a threat in terms of irregular immigration or migratory flows, nor in terms of security and public order.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati as its main purpose is to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas with visa exemption for citizens of the european union and citizens of the republic of kiribati, who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati, has political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and is a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that this will give a boost to trade relations with europe, which are currently limited, and will facilitate investment and tourism. the visa-free agreement will not only allow citizens to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that visa-free travel for the citizens of the contracting parties to this agreement can be a useful tool to increase the influence of the european union in the countries concerned, with particular reference to human rights, and can be a stimulus to their economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of exempting tourist visas for periods of up to 90 days.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. allowing nationals of kiribati to enter the european union and vice versa will help to enhance economic and cultural relations in the context of the bloc and the conotou agreement. furthermore, the mutual visa waiver entails a number of positive effects including, but not limited to, easier travel for different purposes, facilitation of investment, and a rise in tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of a very good relationship between the european union and the republic of kiribati. furthermore, this agreement also aims at strengthening economic and cultural relations between the eu and the republic of kiribati, but the authorities of kiribati must, in turn, ensure the reciprocity of this concession and thus equal treatment. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of kiribati travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and solomon islands travelling to the other territory for a maximum period of 90 days within a 180-day period. this exemption applies to all categories of persons who undertake travel other than for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report on the eu-solomon islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and solomon islands who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the visa waiver agreement is further evidence of europe's commitment to the region, focusing on the promotion of democracy, human rights and enhanced political dialogue. the text approved will also strengthen future reports on issues such as environmental protection, especially in relation to climate change which threatens to cause considerable damage to the archipelago.
in writing. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and solomon islands citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the republic of the solomon islands is a country which has arrived at a modern form of democracy, which looks to the west and to the development of the rule of law, despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems and the difficult relationship with some countries in the pacific area. the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state. europe as a whole can look to the republic of the solomon islands as a friendly democracy which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation, in a manner consistent with the provisions of the cotonou convention whose main purpose, as expressed in article 1, is the reduction and ultimately the elimination of poverty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. the recommendation stresses that such an agreement can simplify conditions for business travel and facilitate tourism and investment. the visa waiver will bring benefits to citizens, who will be able to travel more conveniently and economically. given the development potential of the solomon islands, the agreement will provide an excellent opportunity to enhance cultural and economic relations and to intensify eu cooperation in the islands, which currently focuses mainly on human resource development and sustainable rural development.
in writing. ‒ the agreements in question, which parliament is called upon to approve, provide for visa-free travel for eu citizens and for citizens of the above-mentioned states who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for all types of purposes, except for gainful employment. the file is not a problem, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the solomon islands is of major political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and is the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the two parties. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the agreement is a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations between the european union and the solomon islands. the bilateral trade relations, although at present very limited, have great potential for development and i believe that the simplification of travel conditions will have positive results in facilitating investment and stimulating tourism.
in writing. ‒ i can only say that i am very pleased with the vote today on the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands: it will allow visa-free travel for nationals of both parties when visiting each other's territory for a maximum period of 90 days out of a maximum period of 180 days. this exemption applies to all categories of persons, irrespective of the reason for their stay, except for those whose movement is dictated by the performance of a paid activity. the solomon islands have an agriculture and services economy, with which the european union began relations in 1990 focused on cooperation for sustainable rural development and, in parallel, on human resources development. however, trade relations are currently limited, although they offer attractive growth prospects. the union therefore considers it important to continue a dialogue on environmental protection, especially in relation to climate change and the defence of human rights and gender issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands as its main purpose is to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and thus facilitate the entry procedures into the country.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver agreement is both the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the solomon islands which has a strong political significance in the framework of the cotonou agreement and a further tool to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i also believe that the visa-free agreement can have a positive effect by simplifying the conditions for business travel, facilitating investment and stimulating tourism, which will lead to the development of better trade relations with europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that visa-free travel for the citizens of the contracting parties to this agreement can be a useful tool to increase the influence of the european union in the countries concerned, with particular reference to human rights, and can be a stimulus to their economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of exempting tourist visas for periods of up to 90 days.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-solomon islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this visa arrangement between the eu and the solomon islands, economically speaking, will hasten the process of sustainable rural development and human resource development. furthermore, there are no security threats in the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that this agreement on short-stay visa waiver for solomon islands residents is validated by a document approved in brussels on 7 october 2016. the agreement also allows for intensified political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. as a politician, i believe that it is necessary for the commission to monitor the criteria that allowed the move from annex i to annex ii to regulation no 509/2014. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and solomon islands travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-solomon islands short-stay visa waiver agreement. the agreement is both the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the eu and the solomon islands and a further tool for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver can have positive effects by simplifying the conditions for business travel, thus facilitating investment and stimulating tourism.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of micronesia travelling to the other territory for a maximum period of 90 days within a 180-day period. this exemption applies to all categories of persons who undertake travel other than for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report on the eu-micronesia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and for citizens of micronesia who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the agreement will help to boost tourism and trade in the federated states of micronesia, while strengthening the political dialogue which is currently focused on environmental protection, especially in relation to climate change, as well as on the defence of human rights and gender issues.
in writing. although i have always supported short-stay visa agreements between the eu and third countries, i have seen in this measure steps which could open up future criticisms and for this reason i have preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the federated states of micronesia is a country which has arrived at a modern form of democracy, which looks to the west and to the development of the rule of law, despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems and the difficult relationship with some countries in the pacific area. the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state. europe as a whole can look to the federated states of micronesia as a friendly democracy which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation, in a manner consistent with the provisions of the cotonou convention whose main purpose, as expressed in article 1, is the reduction and ultimately the elimination of poverty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement adds strong political significance to the cotonou agreement and lays the foundations for the consolidation of the dialogue on fundamental freedoms. considering that the political relations of the european union with the federated states of micronesia focus on the protection of their vulnerable environment (especially in relation to climate change) and the defence of human rights, this agreement represents a step forward in fostering better cooperation. the agreement will also finally enable tourism to be activated and trade to be given a new impetus.
in writing. ‒ the agreements in question, which parliament is called upon to approve, provide for visa-free travel for eu citizens and for citizens of the above-mentioned states who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for all types of purposes, except for gainful employment. the file is not a problem, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the federated states of micronesia is of strong political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and is the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the two parties. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the agreement represents a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. the bilateral economic relations have great potential for development and i believe that simplifying travel conditions will have positive results in facilitating investment, stimulating tourism and boosting trade.
in writing. ‒ i can only welcome the agreement reached by the european union with the federated states of micronesia, which was signed in brussels on 19 september. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for european and micronesian citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the exemption applies to all categories of persons, irrespective of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not for the purpose of pursuing an activity for which they are paid. the federated states of micronesia is an island state in oceania, and as such has a service-oriented economy with a booming tourism sector, which the union hopes to further facilitate by facilitating mobility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the micronesian islands as its main purpose is to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and thus facilitate the entry procedures into the country.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is both the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia which has a strong political significance in the framework of the cotonou agreement and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that this will give a boost to trade relations with europe, which are currently limited, and will facilitate investment and tourism. the visa-free agreement will not only allow citizens to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that visa-free travel for the citizens of the contracting parties to this agreement can be a useful tool to increase the influence of the european union in the countries concerned, with particular reference to human rights, and can be a stimulus to their economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of exempting tourist visas for periods of up to 90 days.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu—micronesia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. economically speaking, the visa waiver presents signs of intensifying economic links among businesses even when trade relations are currently limited. politically speaking, the visa waiver also means enhanced political dialogue between the eu and micronesia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is both the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement also favours entrepreneurs by simplifying their travel and investment conditions and stimulating tourism. moreover, as a politician, i believe that the trade relationship between the eu and the federated states of micronesia has great potential for development. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of tuvalu travelling to the other territory for a maximum period of 90 days within a 180-day period. this exemption applies to all categories of persons who undertake travel other than for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report on the eu-tuvalu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and for citizens of tuvalu who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the eu and tuvalu; it has a great political significance within the cotonou agreement and is an additional tool for strengthening economic and cultural relations by intensifying political dialogue on issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and tuvalu citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the republic of tuvalu is a country which has arrived at a modern form of democracy, which looks to the west and to the development of the rule of law, despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems and the difficult relationship with some countries in the pacific area. the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state. europe as a whole can look to the republic of tuvalu as a friendly democracy which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation, in a manner consistent with the provisions of the cotonou convention whose main objective, as expressed in article 1, is the reduction and ultimately the elimination of poverty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. the eu is currently negotiating an economic partnership agreement with 14 pacific countries, including tuvalu. the visa waiver may prove useful in order to further strengthen joint work and to pursue a thorough political dialogue. the recommendation identifies the main themes on which the political dialogue should focus: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and tuvaluan citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. this exemption covers all categories of persons travelling for all types of purposes, except for the pursuit of a paid activity. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and tuvalu is of major political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and is the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the two parties. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the agreement is an effective instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations between the european union and the island nation. tuvalu is one of the poorest countries in the pacific region and is heavily dependent on international aid. i believe that the visa waiver agreement will give new impetus to the island's economy: the simplification of travel conditions will have positive effects by facilitating investment and stimulating tourism and trade.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for this report, which grants temporary tourist visas between eu countries and tuvalu, despite the fact that i do not see any obvious criticisms.
in writing. ‒ the agreement, signed in brussels on 1 july 2016 by the commission and tuvalu, will allow for visa-free travel for nationals of the two contracting parties when visiting the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the exemption applies to all categories of persons, irrespective of the reason for their stay, except those whose stay is for the purpose of carrying out an activity for which they are paid. tuvalu is a polynesian island nation whose economy is based on services (60% of gdp), especially the internet, whose sale of domain name licenses. tv is a major source of revenue for the country. i therefore welcome the signing of the agreement and approve of parliament's completion of the agreement. tuvalu is deeply dependent on international development aid because of the existence of large economic disparities, as it is one of the poorest countries in the pacific region, and one of the most exposed to climate change and its consequences. in this light, the correlation of two such important elements is the subject of joint work and particular attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu as its main purpose is to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and thus facilitate the entry procedures into the country.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and tuvalu and has political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement as a further tool to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that this agreement will enable the european institutions to conduct a balanced, regular and in-depth political dialogue on the issues which remain a priority for the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that visa-free travel for the citizens of the contracting parties to this agreement can be a useful tool to increase the influence of the european union in the countries concerned, with particular reference to human rights, and can be a stimulus to their economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of exempting tourist visas for periods of up to 90 days.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a favourable vote for the eu-tuvalu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. in a social and cultural context, the visa waiver will serve to encourage direct contact between european and tuvaluan citizens, paving the way for an increase of european tourism in the country and vice versa. in the context of the environment, further cooperation and dialogue between the country and the bloc means addressing the issues of environmental protection and climate change on one hand, and the protection of human rights and gender equality on the other one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a major step forward for the people of tuvalu, who are dependent on international development aid. in fact, tuvalu receives only about 2,000 tourists a year, most of them from pacific nations. the agreement aims to protect the environment and climate change on the one hand and to defend human rights and gender equality on the other. as a politician, i believe that support for this country is necessary because it is one of the poorest of the pacific nations and one of the most exposed to the effects of climate change. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the marshall islands travelling to the other territory for a maximum period of 90 days within a 180-day period. this exemption applies to all categories of persons who undertake travel other than for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the gabriel report on the eu-marshall islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for an exemption for citizens of the union and citizens of the marshall islands who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, provided that it is not linked to the pursuit of an activity for which they are paid. the eu's trade relations with the republic of the marshall islands are currently very limited but have a development potential that can be greatly enhanced by this instrument. the comprehensive economic partnership agreement, which is being finalised between the union and 14 countries in the pacific region, including the marshall islands, will help to strengthen this process by enhancing political and economic dialogue.
in writing. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and marshall islands citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the republic of the marshall islands is a country which has arrived at a modern form of democracy, which looks to the west and to the development of the rule of law, despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems and the difficult relationship with some countries in the pacific area. the climate is warming, and rising seas are threatening the very existence of the island state. europe as a whole can look to the republic of the marshall islands as a friendly democracy which we must support by allowing it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation, in a manner consistent with the provisions of the cotonou convention whose main purpose, as expressed in article 1, is the reduction and ultimately the elimination of poverty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. given the economy of the republic of moldova, which is essentially based on the service sector, fisheries and agriculture, the recommendation indicates that trade relations with the eu, although limited, have a good potential for development to be taken into account. this is an opportunity to strengthen and intensify the partnership with the country, with the further possibility of establishing a regular and constant political dialogue. the recommendation also stresses the benefits and positive effects that the agreement can bring, not only in terms of reducing costs and improving travel conditions, but also in terms of stimulating tourism.
in writing. ‒ the agreements in question, which parliament is called upon to approve, provide for visa-free travel for eu citizens and for citizens of the above-mentioned states who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons travelling for all types of purposes, except for gainful employment. the file is not a problem, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the marshall islands is of major political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement and is the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the two parties. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the agreement is a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations between the european union and the marshall islands. the bilateral economic relations, although at present very limited, have great potential for development and i believe that the simplification of travel conditions will have positive results in facilitating investment and stimulating tourism.
in writing. ‒ no criticism of the measure in question granting a temporary tourist visa between eu countries and the marshall islands. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ on 27 july, an agreement was signed in geneva between the european commission and the republic of the marshall islands, which provides for the short-stay visa waiver for nationals of the two contracting parties who intend to visit the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. all categories of persons are exempt, irrespective of the reason for their stay, except those whose purpose is to carry out an activity for which they are paid. i can only vote in favour of an agreement which will not only facilitate international mobility but which opens up a considerable opportunity for economic and cultural dialogue. the marshall islands' economy is predominantly based on services, fishing and agriculture; however, there are structural problems, given the value of imports exceeding that of exports. the united states remains the islands' main trading partner today, following a free association agreement, and we hope to be able to make a significant contribution to each other's economies in the future. it is worth recalling, within the cultural framework, how the marshall islands is the first among the pacific island states to have a female president, hilda heine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the marshall islands as its main purpose is to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and thus facilitate the entry procedures into the country.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is both the concrete outcome of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands which has a strong political significance in the framework of the cotonou agreement and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that this will give a boost to trade relations with europe, which are currently limited, and will facilitate investment and tourism. the visa-free agreement will not only allow citizens to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that visa-free travel for the citizens of the contracting parties to this agreement can be a useful tool to increase the influence of the european union in the countries concerned, with particular reference to human rights, and can be a stimulus to their economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of exempting tourist visas for periods of up to 90 days.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu—marshall islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. politically speaking, the country has committed to maintaining a stable presidential democracy, evidenced by the election of its first female president and the only one in the pacific island states. the visa waiver agreement will allow future political dialogue. the country shows no signs of posing a threat to security and public order as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a great advantage for the inhabitants of the marshall islands, as it will facilitate the conditions for travel for both business and tourism. in addition, the marshall islands enjoy a high level of trust, as the refusal rate for european citizens is very low, so they do not pose any threat to the european union. the conclusion of this agreement also brings the people of the marshall islands closer to the member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the republic of the marshall islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses several aspects of the european commission's report on the reform of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) implemented in 2014 and highlights how, despite the improvements introduced (e.g. advance payments, eligibility of costs related to the preparation and implementation of emergency and recovery operations, the introduction of a six-week deadline for the commission's response to member state requests), beneficiaries still encounter several difficulties, mainly related to the length of the entire procedure. the member states are also invited to optimise the use of existing eu funds to support investments in the prevention and risk reduction of natural disasters. the report also mentions the 'budgeting' of the annual financial allocation provided for in the omnibus regulation proposed by the commission, which is intended to speed up the mobilisation procedure and provide a more timely and effective response to citizens affected by a disaster. the calls for greater transparency in the whole management and implementation of the eusf are also welcome. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 as a tool to respond to particularly severe natural disasters. it is a good example of solidarity between the regions and the member states of the union, which has managed to mobilise almost eur 4 billion in recent years for the more than 70 disasters that have affected 24 member states and the countries in the process of accession. the cicu report, which i supported with my vote today, stresses the importance of the fund as a support for local and regional authorities affected by natural disasters. the 2014 review enabled the eusf to improve its effectiveness through measures such as advance payments and new prevention provisions coupled with improvements in financial management procedures. the text adopted today suggests some improvements and calls on member states to strengthen the means of communication and cooperation with local authorities to support the process of assessing damage and preparing applications. the overall use of existing resources, in particular esi funds, should be encouraged, with a focus on investment policies dedicated to the prevention of natural disasters.
in writing. the report which proposes an evaluation of the european union solidarity fund is well structured and shareable, which is why i wanted to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (regulation (ec) no 2012/2002) was established to give a tangible sign of the union's solidarity towards countries affected by major natural disasters. the eusf may provide assistance to member states if the total direct damage caused by a natural disaster exceeds eur 3 billion (2011 prices) or 0,6% of the country's gross national income (gni). provisions are also in place to respond to minor regional disasters (1.5% of the region's gdp and 1% for an outermost region). the unpredictability of a natural disaster not only causes discomfort for the people affected, but also raises the question of the speed of action of the public authorities, who have to cope with unforeseen costs. we must therefore make it ever easier for those who are entitled to do so to mobilise the eusf: the availability of funds and immediate assistance after a disaster is crucial to allowing the recovery and continuation of productive activities in the affected areas.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which calls on the commission and the court of auditors to carry out an in-depth assessment of the functioning of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) by the end of the current multiannual financial programming period. the report underlines the importance of redefining the scope of the eusf in light of the 2014 reform, by setting clear requirements for the definition of regional disasters and by increasing prevention strategies. investment efforts need to be stepped up to mitigate climate change and to ensure maximum transparency in the award, management and implementation of the eusf. member states need to improve cooperation and communication with local and regional authorities in order to cooperate more effectively with the european union's assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr cicu on the european union solidarity fund. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established in 2002 as a valuable tool to enable the eu to respond to major natural disasters and regional disasters of extraordinary magnitude within the eu and in countries engaged in accession negotiations, and to show solidarity with the regions and states concerned. the cicu report assesses several aspects of the european commission's report on the eusf reform implemented in 2014 and rightly points out that despite the significant improvements introduced, beneficiaries still face difficulties as a result of the length of the entire process, from the submission of the application to the payment of the final contribution. the report also calls on the member states to optimise the use of existing eu funds and stresses the need to start thinking about the search for new indicators beyond gdp, such as the human development index and the regional index of social progress.
in writing. ‒ the report, on which i thought i would vote in favour, examines the operation of the european union solidarity fund, set up in 2002 to support member states in the event of natural disasters. the fund, which has already been activated for 72 natural disasters, still presents, in my view, areas for improvement; in fact, the speed of reaction and coordination between european and national institutions should be improved so that financial support can be unblocked quickly. we cannot tolerate the victims of such serious disasters feeling abandoned in the period between the emergency response and the arrival of funds. i also believe that the union's funding should be used for risk prevention and management, in particular ensuring that the reconstruction of works destroyed as a result of a natural disaster is carried out by bringing them back to normal. finally, i believe that transparency in the use of funds must be improved by close monitoring of expenditure and by the publication of the reports submitted by the member states. it would also be important to improve communication with citizens throughout the aid process in order to allow beneficiaries to follow the procedure better for each individual application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european social fund to finance emergency situations in the member states. it is worth noting that this fund cannot adequately finance prevention and reconstruction plans because of budgetary constraints. however, the report is limited to a general call for greater synergy between the funds.
in writing. ‒ natural disasters happen when we least expect them; in today's world, we can predict many things, but claiming to be able to control the dynamics of our earth is not one of them. in the light of this certainty, i am voting in favour of the report which assesses the instrument which, since 2002, has made it possible to provide solidarity and adequate and timely assistance to citizens affected by major disasters. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. however, beneficiaries still face difficulties due to the length of the entire process from the submission of the application to the payment of the final grant. in any event, it is necessary to remind member states that it is clearly preferable to prevent disasters by means of adequate investments, such as those obtainable through the union's esi funds, rather than having to resort subsequently to the eusf with greater burdens and likely damage.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the eu to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions in europe. i voted in favour of the proposal as it proposes to increase the general budget of the union for 2017 by eur 50 million for the provision of economic advances to be disbursed in a timely and effective manner to the affected countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the text, in the context of the use of the european union solidarity fund, contains measures to respond more rapidly to the requests of countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is a very important instrument that has served the eu very well, in total the fund has mobilised eur 3.8 billion in connection with more than 70 disasters within 24 countries. the fund has been used to mount effective responses to several types of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, flooding, storms and forest fires. the effective use of this mechanism is still, however, hampered by the length of the overall process from application to payment of the final contribution. this can lead to unnecessary and potentially dangerous delays. there is also a need to increase and optimise the use of existing eu funding, for investing in the prevention of natural disasters. this will save money long-term as every euro invested in prevention saved between four to seven euros in disaster management later.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the excellent work done by mr cicu in his report 'eu solidarity fund: evaluation': i fully agree with the need to respond in a timely manner, with adequate and effective tools and with a serious policy of prevention against disastrous phenomena such as the earthquakes which have repeatedly struck italy in recent months and which continue to threaten human security, artistic and cultural heritage and growth. europe must be the guarantor of the beauty and history of its places, the promoter of the development of enterprises and the labour market, and the catalyst for the process of rebirth of small towns and villages, which are now suffering from the many challenges they face. it increases the current capacity of the european solidarity funds to provide assistance by simplifying, speeding up and increasing the facilities to enable reconstruction to proceed as quickly as possible and to avert the sad threat of abandonment of roots and territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, now that the time has come for the regions concerned to show their solidarity, they are asking europe to apply and act on two principles: flexibility and simplification. these are two concepts which should regulate and govern the whole of cohesion policy, but they become 'vital' when entire countries and territories are reduced to rubble. flexibility and simplification of the solidarity fund, which has procedures and, above all, application times that are too long. the advance of funds before the commission's final decision is therefore a good thing, but there is still a lot to be done. the solidarity fund has proved to be an essential tool in many emergencies. emergency which inevitably clashes with bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ europe is increasingly confronted with natural disasters. the european union solidarity fund is the clear expression of solidarity in times of need and that is why we are reiterating our full support for this instrument today by voting for this resolution. since its creation in 2002, it has been an important source of support for local and regional authorities, mobilising almost €4 billion to support over 70 natural disasters in 24 member states and accession countries. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the 2014 reform of the structural funds was not fully implemented and that the 2014 reform of the cohesion fund was not fully implemented. funds alone are not enough to deal with natural disasters. investment efforts, especially in climate change mitigation, and risk prevention and management strategies need to be stepped up. let us not forget that many natural disasters are the direct result of human activities. the call we are making to the commission today also concerns the possibility of raising the payment threshold to 15% and the possibility of reducing the time taken to process applications.
in writing. ‒ to make the most of the great opportunities offered by globalisation, we must first of all be able to mitigate its effects. this is why we welcome the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the fund has proved to be an important instrument of solidarity for workers who have suffered massive redundancies as a result of structural changes in world trade, through assistance, retraining and reintegration, and the promotion of entrepreneurial activity. the report also stresses the need to pay attention to the impact of trade policies and agreements on the european labour market, stresses the importance of social dialogue and urges the commission to ensure that job losses are only a last resort. the response to globalisation cannot and must not be one of suspicion and closure, but must be seen as a great opportunity which requires active adaptation to reap its benefits, keeping the achievements of the european social model and the protection of workers as firm reference points.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the management of the eu solidarity fund can still benefit from some improvements; for example, greater transparency could be introduced, in particular as regards funds allocated for compensation for damage caused by a disaster. the level of cooperation between the various local and regional authorities and the central services at the level of each member state should be improved. i also believe, as a politician, that the eu should improve and speed up the disbursement of funds to prevent people affected by environmental disasters from feeling abandoned. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is one of the most significant instruments of the union's solidarity towards citizens and countries affected by major natural disasters. it is therefore important that its operation be as rapid, transparent and effective as possible. the original 2002 regulation was amended in this respect in 2014. this report attempts to provide some suggestions for further improvements. first of all, the eusf must act quickly, all decision-making levels from the commission to the member states and local authorities must react promptly, to avoid victims of natural disasters feeling abandoned. it is also important to make reconstruction interventions conditional on a policy of prevention and sustainability that reduces the risks and damage associated with future disasters. in this respect, cohesion policy can play a complementary role to that of the eusf. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution on the european union solidarity fund, which has proved to be a valid and effective instrument for ensuring eu support to countries affected by major natural disasters. since its inception, the fund has mobilised eur 3.8 billion to repair damage caused by over 70 natural disasters in 24 beneficiary countries. the regulation is now being revised to respond more quickly to the requests of the countries concerned and to speed up the allocation of resources, which now goes from 6 to 4 weeks, and above all to increase the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15%.
in writing. ‒ since its inception, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) has mobilised some €3.8 billion for 24 beneficiary and candidate countries to deal with over 70 natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, forest fires, storms and, more recently, drought. the report, which i support, states that after a disaster, it is necessary to provide for a simplified mechanism for submitting applications and to improve the evaluation procedures in order to facilitate the execution of payments. this objective was partly achieved when the instrument was extensively revised in 2014 to ensure a faster response, in line with the many requests made over the years by parliament. we ask that the process be efficient and rapid, also in order to respond effectively to the demands of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the umbrella agreement between the united states and the european union operates in a very delicate area, and the legal aspect is certainly not the simplest. it is also an international agreement and as such it would take precedence over the internal law of the european union. since the subject is so important, i think it is right that the european court of justice should intervene so that it can express its opinion on the compatibility of the agreement envisaged with the treaties. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the two motions for resolutions tabled by the alde and gue groups respectively, seeking an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. the sd group's line defines the agreement as not being in conflict with primary union law and the fundamental charter of rights. the agreement is seen as a further tool to safeguard the principles of data protection and the same personal data that is already being transferred between the eu and the us for the purposes of fighting crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and the request for a treaty-compliance opinion by the court of justice of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data in the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the agreement in question which will ensure high and binding standards for the protection of personal data exchanged between the european union and the united states for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. in the future, there will finally be binding quality standards and clear rights for citizens on both sides of the atlantic in the exchange of data between the police and law enforcement authorities. the agreement will ensure that citizens on both sides of the atlantic will have the right to be informed of data breaches, to have inaccurate information corrected and to seek damages. after six years of negotiations, the eu is raising data protection with the us to a new level. the fundamental rights of citizens will be better protected than the current low standard of mere mutual recognition of rules.
in writing. ‒ i express my disapproval of the motions for resolutions tabled on the request for an opinion to the european court of justice, put forward by the alliance of liberals and democrats and the nordic left groups, since the agreement with the usa on the protection of personal data relating to criminal offences has already been subject to a full analysis. it has now been approved by parliament and concluded by the commission with the other party and is designed to protect personal information for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of crimes which may cause serious harm. in addition, there is the favourable opinion of parliament's legal affairs committee, which states that the agreement is not only based on a correct legal basis but also guarantees a high level of protection of the fundamental rights to the protection of personal data and contributes to legal certainty and more effective cooperation with the usa in law enforcement activities. in these times of increasing uncertainty brought on by international terrorism, in order to enable the authorities to act promptly, they must first be guaranteed the possibility of cooperating by exchanging sensitive data. the proposal presented would therefore risk slowing down missions for intercontinental security.
in writing. ‒ i voted against my colleagues' proposal because, on the contrary, i believe it is appropriate for the us and the eu to work together to continue exchanging information on each other's personal data. i do not consider that there is any incompatibility between the agreement, the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8, 21, 47 and article 52 (1)) as regards the right of individuals to the protection of personal data, the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial. therefore i have expressed my negative
in writing. ‒ the following recommendation is related to the draft us-eu umbrella agreement on data protection with regard to criminal offences. this agreement sets out a number of obligations and rights for the us and eu to protect personal data when it is transferred overseas. the aim of the agreement is to put european citizens on an equal footing with us citizens whose personal data can already enjoy the protection afforded by existing european legislation. although the following agreement represents a step forward in data protection, especially since personal data is still being transferred between the eu and the us, there are some points that remain unclear. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the united states approved today marks the starting point of a process initiated by parliament in 2010 to call for stronger measures to protect personal data exchanged for the purpose of fighting crime. the albrecht report, which i support, concludes a six-year negotiation process by defining a number of key points which do not constitute the legal basis for the transfer of data, but which establish a supplement to the security measures aimed at protecting those which are already legally exchanged between the two sides of the atlantic. the text allows data protection authorities to check compliance with the new measures at any time and guarantees citizens the right to be informed in the event of security breaches, to claim damages and to be able to correct inaccurate information. these provisions are supplemented by those which set limits on subsequent transfers of data and on the period for which data are retained. i am convinced that the agreement represents a clear improvement on the regulatory framework.
in writing. this report is a first proposal for an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information, which recent developments in technology have brought to the fore, especially through the internet and social media. i think it is important to promote this type of bilateral agreement in order to ensure a high level of data protection in the interests of citizens. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data in the course of their transfer and/or processing aims to ensure a high level of protection of fundamental rights and personal freedoms, in particular the right to privacy. this agreement will not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of data. it aims to improve, harmonise and provide safeguards for the rights of the persons concerned. the agreement applies to transfers of personal data between law enforcement authorities in the union or member states and the corresponding authorities in the united states for the purpose of detecting and preventing crime; and covers all transfers of data between those authorities, irrespective of the nationality or place of residence of the data subject. the agreement also provides that each party shall implement its provisions without arbitrary or unjustified discrimination between its own nationals and those of the other contracting party. it also contains provisions laying down the basic principles for data protection; the commission has also proposed to the member states that they should be able to apply the same rules to the use of the data, such as restrictions on use, preservation of integrity and rules for subsequent transfers. the agreement also defines the rights of individuals and the rights of administrative and judicial redress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolutions in question today because i believe that there is no legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the agreement in question with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union relating to the right of individuals to the protection of personal data. the agreement approved today will, for the first time, have a data protection instrument that applies in a comprehensive and coherent way to transatlantic exchanges of data in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the agreement will also confirm, in the transatlantic context, the general requirements on international data transfers laid down in the european directive adopted last april on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties. this agreement is therefore a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ in terms of content, the agreement, while not perfect, is a step forward from the status quo, especially in light of the fact that personal data is still transferred between the eu and the us. however, some important questions remain open; in particular, judicial review is excluded for certain types of data such as pnr; as an international agreement it takes precedence over eu domestic law and the umbrella agreement rather than the relevant eu legislation on the subject will be the framework for the rights that european citizens can enjoy. the fact that it is an agreement with the usa could also be a political problem in view of the possible ideological hostility to conclude agreements with the usa.
in writing. ‒ endorses the report, which calls for the opening of negotiations between the eu and the us on the protection of personal data for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism, in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ when the negotiations for the conclusion of this agreement began in 2010, no one could have imagined that the existing structures would be completely dismantled: the european union must not be left behind by the arab spring and the rise of the islamic state, the crimean war and relations with russia, and then by the rise of terrorism in europe. i hope that such strategic foresight will emerge more frequently, and i am voting in favour of the measure. the content of the agreement aims to ensure a high level of protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular the right to privacy for the processing of personal data when there is a transfer to authorities in relation to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. the agreement does not in itself constitute the functional legal basis for the exchange of data since it is provided for in others, but complements the safeguards and guarantees provided for in them and strengthens and harmonises the rights of data subjects. the parties shall establish supervisory authorities to monitor the implementation of the agreement, to report complaints from citizens and to report any violations of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as the text represents an important step forward for the protection of personal data transferred between the european union and the united states in the context of law enforcement activities. furthermore, the agreement does not restrict or infringe any rights of data subjects, as it does not constitute the legal basis for any data transfer, but merely complements existing data transfer frameworks with new rights and protections in the context of cooperation between the european union and the united states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the agreement represents an important step forward for the protection of personal data transferred between the european union and the united states. in particular, that agreement aims to create a framework for the protection of personal data by helping to ensure legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the provision for greater protection of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the 'umbrella agreement' (also known as the framework agreement) is appropriate because it allows the member states and the united states to cooperate with each other in the area of the administration of justice and to protect the personal data of citizens when they are prosecuted for criminal acts of various kinds. in addition, this exchange of information will not extend to personal information outside the eu's competence, as it would imply a possible abuse of power by the eu. the agreement will simply complement existing frameworks on data transfers with new rights and protections in the context of cooperation between the union and the united states on law enforcement activities. but as a politician, in relation to this motion for a resolution, i believe that the exercise of this power must be done by preventing discrimination on grounds of nationality to the detriment of the persons concerned. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information in criminal matters. the agreement represents an important step forward in the protection of personal data such as names, addresses and criminal records which are exchanged by the judicial and police authorities of the two states for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting criminal offences such as terrorism. the agreement will give citizens of the two contracting parties the right, for example, to be informed of breaches of their data and to claim compensation for any damage suffered.
in writing. ‒ pending the signing of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa), in august 2016 ghana ratified the interim economic partnership agreement with the european union, which was signed in 2007. this arrangement provides for a provisional duty-free access to the eu market until it is replaced by a comprehensive epa concluded at regional level. i believe that an interim agreement can only facilitate regional integration if the signing of the regional economic partnership agreement is achieved quickly. in this case, failure to ratify would put more than 1500 direct jobs in the sectors exporting to europe at risk. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the eu and ghana have been partners for years in a number of areas, with total bilateral trade amounting to €5.4 billion in 2015, comprising over 20% of the african country's external trade. the republic is among the leading exporters of agri-food products in the ecowas region, exporting cocoa, fruit, nuts and fish, and importing rice, sugar and meat. last august, the african country decided to ratify the interim economic partnership agreement with the european union, signed in 2007, to secure a contractual safety net pending the entry into force of the broader economic partnership agreement between the eu and west africa. i voted against the fjellner report because i think the epa just ratified is incomplete and outdated. it provides for different deadlines for tariff dismantling than the regional programme, and its provisional application could create significant differences in external tariffs within ecowas, undermining the principle of regional integration underlying the new epa.
in writing. the adoption of this measure would further open the door to duty-free agricultural and fishery products, so i do not entirely support it.
in writing. ‒ ghana has ratified the interim economic partnership agreement with the european union, which provides duty-free access to the eu market until a comprehensive regional epa is concluded. ghana and the eu are partners in several areas, including the promotion of regional economic integration and investment. the eu has become a prime destination for ghana's exports, demonstrating increasing diversification and value-added creation in the country. on the one hand, the overall regional epa is being implemented, while on the other hand, the ghana-eu interim epa remains a temporary solution in line with wto rules. as soon as the comprehensive regional epa enters into force, it will replace the interim epa. the commission notes that the ghanaian authorities have not provided any evidence that the agreement is in line with the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and that the agreement does not provide for the transfer of intellectual property rights to ghana. the need to give new impetus to the eipp arose from the slowdown in the final stages of the regional eipp. the epa will allow ghanaian exporters to maintain duty-free preferences on the european market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the council decision on the conclusion of the interim economic partnership agreement between the european community and ghana. i fully agree with the eu's trade strategy to help countries in economic difficulties, but this agreement, concluded in 2007 and kept frozen until now, is fundamentally inadequate in the changed conditions of today: the absence of a regional dimension and rules of origin, as well as an incomplete institutional framework, make this agreement a back-up solution pending the definition of the partnership with the whole of the west african region. i also believe that the agreements concluded with african countries tend to sacrifice the interests of the agricultural sector of the mediterranean eu countries too much and that the safeguard measures adopted are too often ineffective.
in writing. ‒ pending the signing of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa), in august 2016 ghana (and subsequently côte d'ivoire) decided to ratify the interim economic partnership agreement with the european union, which was signed in 2007. the agreement provides a contractual safety net, as it ensures duty-free access to the eu market until the regional agreement is implemented. the interim agreement provides for provisional application and will be replaced by a comprehensive epa concluded at regional level. although gold, cocoa and crude oil continue to be ghana's main sources of export revenue, the eu has become a prime destination for 'non-traditional' exports, demonstrating increasing diversification and value-added creation in the country. among the sensitive sectors outside the agreement is the dairy sector, characterised mainly by milk powder as a basic product which in ghana is entirely produced and imported by nestle. the non-ratification of the treaty in the case of ghana could jeopardize more than 1500 direct jobs in the sectors exporting to europe. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am against this because the adoption of this measure would further open the door to duty-free agricultural and fishery products.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the final conclusion of the interim economic partnership agreement between the european union and ghana pending the signing of the epa with west africa. this is technically the ratification of an agreement already signed in 2007, whose continuity is made necessary by the reluctance of the african partners to sign the epa, already approved in 2014. total bilateral trade between ghana and the eu amounts to 5.4 billion and comprises over 20% of ghana's exports, which mainly bring cocoa, fruit, nuts and timber to the eu market. since these are products that are outside the main exports, namely gold and crude oil, the attempt to diversify its economy and create added value in order to establish itself as a middle-income nation is commendable. these guidelines seem to be most in line with ghana's clear desire to consolidate its position as a transit and maritime hub for landlocked countries. however, the country must definitely increase its efforts against corruption and exploitation of child labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because west africa is our biggest trading partner in sub-saharan africa. at the same time, the european union contributes to the economic growth and development of the region and is the main export market for west africa's agricultural and fisheries products. the interim economic partnership agreement with ghana and côte d'ivoire provides a contractual safety net by guaranteeing a duty-free quota as well as free access to the eu market. the interim agreement also contains provisions on development cooperation measures, trade defence and trade facilitation between sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour, i intend to support this resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the interim economic partnership agreement between ghana, the eu and its member states. the agreement, ratified last august, provides a contractual backstop for duty-free access to the eu market on a temporary basis until a regional economic partnership agreement between the eu and west africa comes into force. indeed, ghana and the eu are already partners in several areas, including the promotion of regional economic integration and investment. in addition, one third of ghana's timber exports go to eu states. i am convinced that the conclusion of this agreement, on the one hand, can encourage ghana to continue its ongoing reform process which must precede the authorization for the application of regulations and trade in the forestry sector. on the other hand, it could speed up the final stages of a wider trade agreement in the west african region. a development-oriented agreement, giving ghana the possibility of tariff resumption clauses if an increase in imports jeopardizes the low- and middle-income country's economy and nascent industry.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the conclusion of the eu-ghana interim economic partnership agreement (iepa). this instrument will allow ghana to continue to benefit from preferential and asymmetric access to the european market, in view of the expiry of the unilateral application by the eu of the market access regulation (mar) to ghana, in compliance with the world trade organisation (wto) rules. in addition to the trade side, which provides for the liberalization of all tariff lines at zero duty and quota for imports from ghana, the agreement includes a very important chapter on development cooperation which makes explicit reference to the provisions of the cotonou convention. although it is an asymmetrical agreement, it also contains bilateral safeguard clauses which will enable each party to react to any market distortions by protecting their respective markets. finally, i would like to point out that this agreement is purely transitional in nature in view of the entry into force of the wider economic partnership agreement between the eu and the whole of the west african region (ecowas), of which ghana is a member. i therefore voted unanimously in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because the ghana-eu interim economic partnership agreement provides a contractual safety net, ensuring duty-free access to the eu market for ghanaian products until the regional agreement is implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted positively on the report of eu-ghana stepping stone economic partnership agreement. the ratification of ssepa proves beneficial by granting a provisional duty-free access to the eu market. on the other hand, the agreement will pave the way to prevent trade disruption for ghana, boosting the country’s gdp, by ensuring the stability needed for new investments and creating employment opportunities. supporting the agreement represents a great opportunity for the country of ghana to move up the economic ladder and strengthen ‘its status as a middle-income country’.
in writing. ‒ convinced of the great potential of the economic partnership agreements negotiated between the eu and the acp countries; noting with regret the difficulties encountered in ratifying a regional agreement with the ecowas community countries; the commission has assessed the incompatibility of the current tariff preferences scheme, the mar, with the principle of reciprocity under the rules of the international trade organisation. having regard to the bilateral ratification of the interim economic partnership agreement between the eu and côte d'ivoire, recognising the asymmetrical nature of the arrangement which provides for a limited and gradual opening of the ghanaian market in the face of unlimited and immediate access to the single market; we are also convinced that the european union must continue to play a leading role in the development of the region. the asymmetrical nature of the agreement protects ghanaian interests by granting the country privileged access to the community market and at the same time protecting the nascent local industrial system and economic diversification by preventing access to sensitive goods. the european system will benefit from imports, mainly agricultural, of products which do not overlap with the community market and production chain and from better access to the ghanaian market for its machinery and equipment, which are necessary for ghanaian industry and not available locally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the ratification of the agreement (apei) signed in 2007 between ghana and the eu provides a contractual safety net, as it ensures duty-free access to the eu market until the regional agreement is implemented. moreover, this agreement is merely a temporary solution to prevent trade disruption between the eu and ghana, as ghana is one of the largest exporters of cocoa, fruit, nuts and fish. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the promotion of regional economic integration and investment is of particular importance in the ghana-eu partnership. in 2015, total bilateral trade between ghana and the eu was around eur 5.4 billion and comprised over 20% of ghana's foreign trade, as an exporter of cocoa, fruit, nuts and fish. in addition, about one third of the country's timber exports go to the eu. ghana imports rice, sugar and meat, as well as ships, vehicles and refined oil. the country is also seeking to consolidate its position as a maritime transit centre for landlocked west african countries. the interim economic partnership agreement therefore guarantees the safe continuation of the partnership between the two countries until the regional agreement can finally be signed by all the countries of the west african region. i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework regulation for the years 201-2020 has established the possibility to use the contingency margin, up to 0.03% of national gdp. the use of budgetary instruments is always a rather delicate and controversial issue, but in this case the margin for unforeseen events could be used to deal with the migration crisis. it is very clear that large sums of money are urgently needed to deal with the huge waves of migrants from troubled areas, and this instrument could be the right instrument. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. technically, the contingency margin is a last resort tool to raise funds when europe faces serious and unexpected situations, if and only if all other sources of funding available under the mff have been exhausted. the solution of the migration crisis and the problem of the security of citizens are priorities which i share. my support for the call for increased funds for these headings would therefore be obvious if it were accompanied by a real and radical change in the policies in which these contributions are invested. as long as frontex, easo and fami are financed to encourage the invasion of migrants and not to block their flow, i am not going to vote in favour of measures like this.
in writing. ‒ while the advance planning and management of funds is an important and efficient element of the european union's financial strategy, it is also necessary to consider that not all events can be foreseen with precision, either in their occurrence or in the resources that will be needed to deal with them. it is therefore necessary to provide for a flexible margin to enable the mobilisation of extraordinary resources capable of meeting unforeseen crises in 2017 in order to make the administrative action of the european union effective promptly and to support crisis areas swiftly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision today because it is essential to mobilise the contingency margin to meet the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 beyond the ceilings set by the multiannual financial framework. after having examined all other financial possibilities to respond to unforeseen circumstances within the 2016 commitment ceiling of the multiannual financial framework and having mobilised the flexibility instrument for the full amount of eur 1 530 million available in 2016, the measure adopted appears to be the only one possible. in the context of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016, the contingency margin will be mobilised to provide the amount of eur 240,1 million in commitment appropriations over and above the commitment ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) of the multiannual financial framework. the amount of eur 240,1 million in commitment appropriations referred to in article 1 shall be fully deducted from the margin within the commitment ceiling of heading 5 (government) of the multiannual financial framework for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ the contingency margin is a tool used to raise funds from the eu's gross national income and to deal with serious and unforeseen situations in the event that all other sources of funding available in the eu's multiannual financial framework (period 2014-2020) are exhausted. the report allocates eur 240 million for 2016 for the migration crisis and citizens' security. support for these measures would be obvious, but in reality these resources are being used to encourage the invasion of migrants and not to block their flows. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as a man at the service of the citizens, but above all as an italian, i can only support the decision to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016. in fact, as much as eur 240.1 million will be allocated to the 'security and citizenship' expenditure of the eu budget for 2016. this choice is made a priority by the overwhelming migration crisis that is sweeping europe, accompanied by the refugee crisis. a disaster of such proportions that it is difficult to deal with and even more difficult to predict, means that the council has to use the 0.03% of the eu's gross national income allocated to the margin under consideration. i hope, therefore, that it will be used efficiently and effectively, together with the consolidation of european security, at a time when it is under attack. we must never forget that the human tragedies from which hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing must not be a justification for degradation such as that in calais, nor a source of dismay for the citizens. all too often, indeed, we see congested suburbs at the mercy of those who have nowhere else to go, but at the expense of the inhabitants. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal as it ensures easier recovery of sums of money in crossborder proceedings. the application of the european order for payment procedure constitutes a cheaper and faster way of recovering uncontested civil and commercial claims.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report as long as frontex, easo and fami are financed to encourage the invasion of migrants and not to block their flow.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a favourable vote for the report on a decision of the eu parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016. the mobilisation of the contingency margin for the full amount of eur 240.1 million is vital to tackle the issues that arise from migration as well as the refugee and security crisis. at the same time, the mobilisation will also ‘complement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure in heading 3 security and citizenship’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe it is necessary to mobilise the enforceable margin because it is the best tool to deal with the migration and refugee crisis. in addition, such resolution shall be submitted in full compliance with the conditions laid down in article 13 (1) of regulation (euratom) no 1311/2013. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2021 (mff) allows the use of the contingency margin instrument, which can amount to up to 0,03% of eu-28 gross national income, as a last resort to respond to unforeseen circumstances, when all other options available within the mff have been exhausted. to meet the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis, it was therefore decided to increase the commitment appropriations for 2016 for heading 3 by eur 240.1 million through the contingency margin, after having already used the flexibility instrument by eur 1 530 million for headings 3 and 4, thus exhausting all the room for manoeuvre within the mff. it is undeniable that heading 3 is under particular pressure, mainly because of the migration and refugee crisis. it is therefore difficult to oppose the request to mobilise these additional resources for the current year, even though the issue of migration has been a major issue for some years now, and should be properly assessed when drawing up the annual budgetary periods. i have voted in favour of this request, since it concerns the current budget.
in writing. ‒ the following draft proposes changes to expenditure in both revenue and expenditure in the 2017 budget. of particular interest are the cuts in cohesion policy funds. the reasons given by the european commission merely point to a delay in the implementation of these funds in the eastern countries. this is very puzzling to me because if it is true that the causes of the cuts in expenditure are delays in implementation, then in the years to come europe may find itself faced with expenditure arising from commitments already made, without having the necessary resources. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the fernandes report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016. parliament considered it necessary to mobilise the contingency margin to meet the new requirements arising from the outbreak of the migration and refugee crisis and the new security framework. the increase in appropriations for the financial year 2016 will therefore exceed the ceiling of 0,03 % of the eu's gross national income, as set out in article 13 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013. this exceptional measure will make available an additional eur 240.1 million to be used to meet the new challenges.
in writing. even though the measure brings together heterogeneous operations with different political value and implications, ultimately resulting in a tangle of interventions that are not coherent in terms of meaning, it cannot be ignored that it reduces our national contribution to the eu budget 2016 by 500 million euros, so i intended to express myself with an abstention.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2016 reduces the level of payment appropriations by eur 284,3 million. it should be noted that the level of commitment appropriations in section 3 security and citizenship is increased by eur 50 million to provide emergency aid in the union; the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. whereas the commission has already adopted a communication on the implementation of the european strategic investment fund (esif) in the field of border management, the excess payments of eur 284.3 million are a cause for concern, resulting in delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management. the contingency margin needs to be mobilised and the frontex table needs to be strengthened. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the allocation of the appropriations for the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) and the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). therefore, amending budget no 4/2016 has been definitively adopted.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which provides an update of the appropriations in the light of recent developments in migration and security issues. the report approves the proposed increases by mobilising the contingency margin, which is currently the only instrument available. it also calls for the increase of frontex staff in 2016 to be brought forward in order to strengthen return operations, pre-return assistance, joint operations, risk analysis and common resources. the council also called for the european fund for strategic interventions (efsi) to be brought forward by a eur 73.9 million increase and the re-allocation of the cef. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ in italy, a feeling of deep loneliness is prevailing at the moment: the citizens feel abandoned by europe to the fluctuations of migration flows and their consequences. i therefore vote in favour today of a european response to help the countries affected by the migration crisis, which can transform the current dramatic situation into an efficient and innovative system of reception, but also of precise rules to be respected. only by taking concrete and joint action can we avoid the dissatisfaction and anti-europeanism which are now the rule. i welcome, in line with what has been said, the decision to increase the commitment appropriation levels foreseen under the heading 'security and citizenship' thanks to the eur 250 million partly provided by the 2016 contingency margin. similarly, the advance of the european fund for strategic investments by a reallocation of eur 73.9 million only increases expectations of improvement. however, despite national programmes for implementing the eu funds, only some of the relocations of refugees originally planned have taken place so far. the member states must not allow themselves to accept only the benefits without bearing the burdens that go with them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 4 for 2016 as significant increases in commitment appropriations are needed in the areas of security and citizenship, migration and integration, and internal security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2016 as it contains a number of elements leading to an increase of eur 225,4 million in commitment appropriations. the project also proposes to update the appropriations in relation to the migrant and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i will refrain from commenting, despite some positive points, on the inefficiencies in the management of the european budget.
in writing. ‒ regarding the report on draft amending budget no 4/2016, i voted in favour. supporting this report means looking forward to a more in-depth update of appropriations that can better reflect the latest developments in terms of migratory and security issues. amending the budget represents the increase and mobilisation of funds that will be assigned to the asylum, migration, and integration fund as well as the internal security fund and assist with their efforts to handle the migratory situation affecting the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because the prb no 4/2016 anticipating the disbursement of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) through the allocation of eur 73.9 million to commit to the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef-europe) requires the approval of the proposed increases for heading no 3 by mobilising the contingency margin. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the efta states in the work of the european external action service. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the eu for the financial year 2016 concerning the updating of appropriations to take account of the latest developments in relation to migration and security issues and the reduction of payment appropriations. the report expresses deep concern about the overpayment of eur 7 284,3 million, which is due to the significant delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management; endorses the proposed increases through the mobilisation of the contingency margin, as well as the advance increase in frontex staff and welcomes the partial strengthening of amif, but is concerned that, despite a high rate of implementation based on member states' national programmes, only some relocations of refugees have been carried out so far.
in writing. ‒ this correction is the symbol of the schizophrenia of the eu budget: the commission has also proposed that the budgetary authority should be given the power to adopt the budget in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 100a. as regards the question of heading 1 (b), if it is really just a matter of delays and commitments already made, then we will find ourselves in the next few years faced with an unpredictable amount of payments to be made, with consequences that are difficult to analyse. if the member states really believed in the european budget, they could have used these 'unexpected' resources to fill some budgetary priority lines which were short of funds, but there was no interest in this. it has only proposed to increase some appropriations in commitments (not in payments) for some shared items such as heading 3 and for others that are less sustainable such as the efsi. i therefore felt it was necessary to emphasize these inconsistencies, beyond the technical merits of the amendment, and that is why i finally opted for an abstention vote in the committee on budgets on 24 november, which i also maintained for the plenary.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5 contains many technical measures, covering various aspects: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, what is most striking, beyond the purely technical aspect, are the political consequences of the following project within the member states. the countries which have been the biggest promoters of the austerity measures which have caused so much damage to europe would be the most clearly favoured. i have decided to vote against the above.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the fernandes report on draft amending budget no 5 to the 2016 general budget. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the expenditure relating to the european schools and the european schools for the period 2014 to 2020. this decision introduced some limited changes to the existing legislation, such as a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a new reduced rate based on vat and gross reductions in contributions based on gni for some member states.
in writing. i can only vote against this measure which will allow the entry into force of new rules on the calculation of own resources which will cost italy eur 900 million in addition to what it has already paid.
in writing. ‒ bearing in mind that amending budget no 5/2016 follows the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom, which includes minor amendments, such as lower collection costs for traditional own resources, reduction of vat call rates for some member states and gross reductions of annual contributions based on gni. whereas the commission has already adopted a communication on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2016 which is intended to complement the revenue of the union budget for 2016 and which leads to a change in the contributions of the individual member states, without any effect on the overall revenue and expenditure side of the union; the council position on pbr no 5/2016 was approved and it has been definitively adopted.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of amendment no 5 to the 2016 budget which aims to include in the revenue of the union budget for the financial year 2016 the impact of the own resources adjustments, with retroactive effect for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. this adjustment is the result of the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, which introduces limited changes such as the reduction of the costs of collecting traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of levy on the vat-based resource for some member states, and gross reductions in gni-based contributions for some member states. the correction shall entail the modification of the individual contributions of all member states but shall in no way affect the overall revenue and expenditure entered in the budget of the union.
in writing. - i vote against. the measure will allow the entry into force of new rules on the calculation of own resources made available by the member states, which will cost italy eur 900 million.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of a measure to complete the ratification process on own resources. in relation to the latter, the following definitions shall apply: the commission has also decided to extend the period of validity of the community guarantee to the following: levies on imports of agricultural products, customs duties, namely those of the common customs tariff and other duties fixed by the communities on trade with non-member countries, vat revenue obtained by applying a rate initially equal to 1%, and contributions paid by the member states in the event that the previous resources were not sufficient to cover the community budget. these contributions are calculated as a percentage of the gross national product of each member state (the so-called gnp resource). the measure therefore introduces a reduction in the cost of collecting traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of withdrawal of the vat-based resource for some member states together with gross reductions in contributions based on gross national income for some countries. there will certainly be a change in the individual contributions of all the member states without affecting the total revenue and expenditure entered in the community budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2016 as it allowed some member states to benefit from a gross reduction in contributions based on gross national income in the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report which will allow the entry into force of new rules on the calculation of own resources which will cost italy an additional eur 900 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 5/2016: implementation of the own resources decision. draft amending budget no 5 will bring about the modification of individual contributions of member states. however, it is important to stress that neither the overall revenue nor the expenditure side of the union budget will be significantly affected. on the other hand, amending of the budget presents itself as beneficial in terms of further aiming to incorporate in the revenue side of the 2016 union budget, the impact of adjustments to the resources stemming from implementation of euratom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that amending budget no 5/2016 has not only been adopted definitively, but is also the product of a ratification process which ended with the entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu. therefore, since budget no 5/2016 results from a complex ratification process, it must be adopted and published. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text voted on today is essentially a technical amending budget, but it also has political implications. on the one hand, it is a matter of applying rules which have already been decided and approved, but on the other hand it is particularly difficult to accept these rules which are made up of exceptions and benefits for a few countries only, which are among the least affected by the european economic difficulties. this amendment actually creates favourable conditions for countries such as germany, the netherlands, sweden, denmark, austria and the united kingdom, which are certainly not the most affected countries in the eu. the calculation of these contributions is yet another proof that some countries in the eu matter more than others and that they are also champions of the austerity and rigorousness that brought europe to its knees. i therefore voted against it in the committee on budgets on 24 november, as i did in the house.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance following a disaster in germany floods that damaged the district of lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the german authorities estimated the total damage caused by the disaster at eur 1 259,005 million. the amount to be mobilised through the eusf is eur 31 475 125, by means of the adoption of an amending budget. in order to help the affected populations and to facilitate reconstruction operations, i voted in favour.
in writing. in may and june 2016, germany was hit by a series of flash floods and extremely intense flooding that caused the destruction of homes, agricultural facilities, businesses and caused considerable damage to various public infrastructure. the authorities estimated the damage at around eur 1,2 billion. 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected by this tragic event, seven lost their lives and over 2000 were unable to return to their homes after more than two months of flooding. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed and was without access to water for three weeks. the hohlmeier report, which i supported with my vote today, allows the european union solidarity fund to be mobilised to provide assistance to the areas affected by this natural disaster. this measure will provide for the disbursement of some eur 31 million in commitment and payment appropriations. this is a necessary measure to support the german people in a time of difficulty.
in writing. in may and june, parts of lower bavaria were hit by severe flooding. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide eur 31 475 125 for reconstruction and support for the affected populations. i believe that the solidarity fund continues to be an important instrument of support which europe provides to the member states affected by major natural disasters, although i hope that its activation will be made more and more rapid, because this will greatly increase its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ larger countries can also be affected by natural disasters, which are by their nature unforeseen and unpredictable. this is the case in germany, which this spring was hit by exceptional rains which caused numerous floods and landslides. damage to public infrastructure (schools, dams, telecommunications networks and roads), private homes and businesses (hundreds of buildings were flooded) was extensive. there has also been damage to agriculture and forests from mudslides, landslides and landslides. the exceptional nature and gravity of the situation have necessitated the use of the european union solidarity fund. parliament must approve the mobilisation of the fund to allocate the amounts envisaged by the commission as emergency aid to the affected regions as soon as possible, since the rapidity of the institutional response to a flood intervention is essential for the resumption of economic activities and the normal conduct of the daily activities of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance to germany following the floods that affected lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn, in may and june 2016. the series of extremely intense floods resulted in the destruction of public and private infrastructure, private homes and agricultural facilities. seven people have died and more than 47,000 people have been affected in lower bavaria, of whom more than 2,000 were still unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. significant damage to businesses and agriculture was reported, as well as heavy damage to basic infrastructure, water supply, wastewater treatment services and the electricity grid. the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is therefore essential. i think it is important, however, to revise the fund's rules in order to simplify the existing rules, so that contributions can be paid more quickly.
in writing. ‒ in view of the tragic events in my home region of piedmont and liguria, i can only express my dismay at what happened in the region of lower bavaria in may and june. i therefore vote in favour of the disbursement of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations to germany from the european union solidarity fund. unfortunately, the rains had been torrential, causing several rivers to overflow, inevitably flooding many towns and causing devastating floods. it is noteworthy that germany was able to submit its application for the mobilisation of the fund quickly, since it needs complete and accurate data for its compilation, which is not easy to translate into figures. i hope that with the same speed and punctuality the italian state will be able to do the same so that it can make 2017 more serene for those who have found themselves, in a whale, displaced by the nature of the work of a lifetime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report for concrete financial aid to the over 1 470,000 german citizens affected by the floods of may/june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. such a report would represent the member states’ aim to assist fellow eu members in the event of emergencies, to show solidarity to those affected by natural disasters. the financial contribution from the fund will enable germany to repair the damage caused by the floods in lower bavaria, which included, but was not limited to, the destruction of public and private infrastructure, private homes and agriculture. supporting the report symbolises solidarity with the affected region, shown previously towards the earthquakes in the greek islands and italy.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution calling for greater involvement and support of regional and local authorities. they are the institutions closest to the citizens and the ones best able to understand and define their needs. their centrality is also defined at european level, thanks to the affirmation of the principle of subsidiarity, which enshrines the obligation of the institutions to take decisions as close as possible to the citizen. the local dimension must also be central to the european structural and investment funds: the european commission must consider further measures to support their action and to improve the management of the structural funds. if the commission were to intervene with additional measures, this could have a positive impact on economic growth and employment in the member states. finally, it is possible and desirable that the commission should consider launching a public consultation on the subject, in order to give voice to the citizens and their requests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision, in the context of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016, to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for germany in the amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations because i believe that germany should have adequate financial assistance in relation to the disaster that hit the german territory in may and june 2016. these disasters consisted of intense and short-lived floods or intensive flooding that damaged public and private infrastructure, housing and agricultural equipment, especially in lower bavaria. i strongly believe that the businesses and the agricultural sector and the infrastructure network in those seriously damaged areas must be rehabilitated with the support and solidarity of the eu member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in relation to a natural disaster in germany in may and june 2016. these events have caused the death of seven people and involved almost 50 000 people who have suffered more or less direct damage. the german authorities estimated the total damage caused by the disaster at eur 1 259,005 million. the cost of essential emergency operations eligible under the eusf was therefore estimated at eur 94,196 million, of which more than eur 52,227 million for reconstruction operations in the transport sector and more than eur 21 million for clean-up measures. the amount of eusf assistance available is eur 31 475 125, to be obtained by adopting an amending budget which was voted on at the same time (fernandes report, dab 6). the eusf is of particular importance to us italians at this time with regard to the question of the earthquakes in central italy. it is certainly a perfect instrument, but at the moment it is the only one available to us. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the dossier concerns the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in favour of a region of germany affected by very heavy flooding which caused disastrous damage, especially to agriculture. that is the reason why i voted in favour.
in writing. in may and june, parts of lower bavaria were hit by severe flooding. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide eur 31 475 125 for reconstruction and support for the affected populations. i believe that the solidarity fund continues to be an important instrument of support which europe provides to the member states affected by major natural disasters, although i hope that its activation will be made more and more rapid, because this will greatly increase its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ between may and june 2016, some regions of germany in particular bavaria were affected by heavy rains, floods and landslides. these events caused extensive damage to public infrastructure (schools, dams, telecommunications networks and roads), private homes and businesses (hundreds of buildings were flooded), as well as damage to agriculture and forests from mudslides, landslides and landslides. the exceptional nature and gravity of the situation have made it necessary to use the european union solidarity fund. parliament must approve the mobilisation of the fund to allocate the amounts envisaged by the commission as emergency aid to the affected regions as soon as possible, since the rapidity of the institutional response to a flood is essential for the resumption of economic activities and the normal conduct of the daily activities of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the call to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to germany. following the severe floods in may and june 2016, which destroyed infrastructure and housing and caused damage to agriculture, germany applied for a financial contribution from the fund. i think the commission's proposal is appropriate in order to provide aid to member states affected by disasters which have an impact on social, environmental and economic conditions. as the solidarity fund is a special instrument, as defined in the multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation, the corresponding appropriations should be entered in the budget outside the mff ceilings.
in writing. ‒ in line with the agreement to mobilise the solidarity fund for germany for the floods it suffered in lower bavaria in may and june, i express my support for draft amending budget no 6/2016. this will allow the community budget to be reinforced under article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters having a serious impact on living conditions, the environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations. this amount represents the amount mobilised by the union solidarity fund, which has an annual ceiling of around eur 500 million.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is intended to enable the union to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. i voted in favour of this measure granting financial assistance to germany for the floods that affected lower bavaria in may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2016 as it allows the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for financial assistance to countries affected by major natural disasters. in particular, the project is a response to the problems arising from the floods in the region of lower bavaria in germany.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i support the need to allocate a share of the eu solidarity fund to help the german citizens of lower bavaria who were affected by severe flooding in may/june this year.
in writing. ‒ i voted positively on draft amending budget no 6/2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. back in may and june of the present year, floods impacted lower bavaria and, more specifically, the district of rottal-inn, affecting more than 47 000 people. therefore, amending the aforementioned budget represents an increase in the total amount in order to be able to assist fellow member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval, adoption and publication in the official journal of the european union of draft amending budget no 6/2016 relating to the council position accompanying the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany, as i share the need to strengthen article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states affected by major natural disasters (...) ' by an amount of eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany. the commission proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in relation to the floods that affected lower bavaria in may and june 2016 causing an estimated total damage of eur 1,26 billion. as in the past, the commission proposes to apply a rate of 2.5% of the total direct damage for all damage up to the 'major disaster' threshold. the total amount of aid proposed is therefore eur 31 475 125. the proposed mobilisation requires an amendment to the 2016 budget and a draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 6 for the financial year 2016 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations for germany. in may and june 2016, the administrative district of rottal-inn in lower bavaria was hit by a series of sudden, extremely intense and short-lived floods, which destroyed public and private infrastructure, as well as many homes, and caused extensive damage to agriculture. as the overall direct damage is below the 'serious disaster' threshold for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, the application was submitted and examined under the criterion of the so-called 'regional disaster'. this correction is necessary to mobilise the eu solidarity fund, which is an instrument outside the ordinary budgetary framework. i am always in favour of approving the request for these funds, albeit with some reservations, partly because, unfortunately, italy is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the establishment of this fund because of the many disasters.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 (mff) provides for a residual instrument - the contingency margin, which can amount to up to 0,03% of the eu-28's gross national income - as an extrema ratio to deal with unforeseen circumstances, should all other options available within the mff have been exhausted. in order to respond to the increased resource needs resulting from the migration, refugee and security crisis, it has been decided to increase the commitment appropriations of heading 3 and 4 of the mff in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, beyond the ceilings set for those headings. while recognising the need for such increases in areas which are currently under particular pressure, it must be remembered that the use of the contingency margin is only a buffer solution, which does not solve the root problems, nor does it address the real need to rationalise the eu budget by focusing on real priorities such as these. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the geier report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. parliament considered it necessary to mobilise the contingency margin to meet possible new financial needs that might arise from internal security crises and humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges. the conciliation committee, convened for the 2017 budget, therefore agreed to mobilise the contingency margin for an amount of eur 1,9 billion for heading 3 and heading 4, exceeding the limits set by the ceiling provided for in the mff.
in writing. technically, the contingency margin is a last resort tool to raise funds when europe faces serious and unexpected situations, if and only if all other sources of funding available under the mff have been exhausted. the solution of the migration crisis and the problem of the security of citizens are priorities which i share. my support for the call for increased funds for these headings would therefore be obvious if it were accompanied by a real and radical change in the policies in which these contributions are invested. as long as frontex, easo and fami are financed to encourage the invasion of migrants and not to block their flow, i am not going to vote in favour of measures like this.
in writing. ‒ it is the responsibility of the european parliament and each of us to mobilise all the resources needed to deal with unforeseen crises in 2017, so as to make the european union's administrative action effective and to support crisis areas quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because it is necessary to mobilise the contingency margin to meet the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 beyond the ceilings set by the multiannual financial framework. although the migration, refugee and security crisis began in 2015, its impact and consequences are evolving daily. political decisions in third countries on the acceptance of refugees on their territory and the opening and closing of borders make it very difficult to predict how the situation will develop in the long term. the volatile and unpredictable nature of the crisis justifies the use of the contingency margin as a last resort tool to address the unforeseen impact of the migration, refugee and security crises on spending needs.
in writing. ‒ with 2016 drawing to a close, the budget outlook for the new year is not optimistic, much less timely. we will undoubtedly face new and old challenges in the face of an ever more turbulent global landscape. this awareness leads me to agree with the commission's decision to mobilise the contingency margin of eur 1 164.4 million, to be divided between the heading 'security and citizenship' and the heading 'europe's role in the world'. in both cases, the contributions are understood to be additional to the levels of the respective ceilings, precisely to denote how the future needs of the eu could prove to be significantly higher given the migration, refugee and terrorism crisis. it would be futile to hope for less volatile geopolitical landscapes and, therefore, for a more stable internal security, and, in line with this awareness, the responses can be effective not only at local level but also in the mediterranean context through the involvement of the maghreb countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017 as it provides for specific measures and funding to address the refugee and migrant crises in an appropriate way at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because there is a need for a total change in policies on the migration issue.
in writing. ‒ additional financing needs are likely in 2017 due to an in increased need of funds to handle the migration crisis and the internal security struggle to combat terrorism; given this, it is important that the commission proposed to mobilise eur 1 164.4 million of heading 3 through the contingency margin in 2017. however, as there is no more margin available under the ceiling of heading 3, flexibility has been needed to solve this issue. i support the result of the conciliation committee as they have managed to agree to the mobilisation of the contingency margin at a level of eur 1 906.2 million for heading 3 and heading 4 with relocation of unallocated funds from heading 2 and 5 in the coming years. this agreement is very important, as it will allow the eu to mobilise clearly needed funds for instruments and mechanisms needed to stabilise and combat problems that will just get more difficult and expensive to manage if left unchecked.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's decision, as reflected in the positive assessment of mr geier and the positive outcome of the budgetary conciliation, to mobilise the contingency margin for the year 2017. i would like to stress the important allocation to emergencies for security policies and to support the eu's role in the world: the european union is also taking action to help the refugees and displaced persons in the region.
in writing. ‒ i expressed a favourable vote for the report on mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017. taking such a step will complement the appropriations related to expenditure highlighted in the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2017. according to the report, not much margin is left to effectively handle security crises, humanitarian, migratory and refugee challenges. therefore it is necessary to address, with the commission, in what way additional funds could be possibly mobilised using the contingency margin.
in writing. ‒ i voted against my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument should be targeted, for example for migration and security crises. moreover, as a politician i believe it is wrong to deduct eur 575.0 million from the unallocated margin of heading 2 (sustainable growth: natural resources), as environmental resources must constantly evolve and cannot be abandoned. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016. i think that the commission has made a choice worthy of approval in proposing, together with draft amending budget no 4/2016, to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016 in the amount of eur 240.1 million, in order to supplement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure under the heading 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the eu. i think that the content of the decision is appropriate and i therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 (mff) allows the use of the contingency margin instrument, which can amount to up to 0,03% of eu-28 gross national income, as a last resort to respond to unforeseen circumstances, when all other options available within the mff have been exhausted. in order to meet the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis, it has been decided to increase the commitment appropriations of heading 3 and 4 of the mff in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 beyond the ceilings set for those headings: the commission has therefore resorted to both the flexibility instrument and the contingency margin. it is undeniable that heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (europe's role in the world) are currently under particular pressure, mainly because of the migration and refugee crisis. it is therefore difficult to oppose the call to mobilise these additional resources, but the use of the contingency margin is only a buffer solution, which does not solve the root problems, and which does not even address the real need to rationalise the eu budget by focusing it on real priorities such as these.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 (mff) authorises the use of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not otherwise be financed within the available ceilings of one or more mff headings. the european commission, after considering all possibilities for reallocating appropriations, proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017, for an amount of eur 530 million over the ceiling, to finance measures to manage the migration, refugee and security crisis. while i am in favour of maximum flexibility within the mff and aware of the importance of tackling the migration crisis, i remain opposed to the use of these 'special' instruments provided for by the mff, instead of seeking reallocation from less priority budget lines. i have to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the geier report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. this is a technical measure to approve the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations in view of the challenges facing the union. the text also stresses the need for reflection on the future of the eu budget, which should provide for greater flexibility in the future, including an increase of eur 2 billion per year for the flexibility instrument.
in writing. the flexibility instrument provides funds to cover clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed from the eu budget without exceeding the annual ceiling for expenditure under one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. first of all, i think that the commission should clearly demonstrate that it has looked very carefully at the possibility of raising funds by reallocating them from non-priority budget lines before putting its hands back in the pockets of the member states. while i share the priority of the migration crisis, my support for this heading would be a foregone conclusion if it were accompanied by a real and radical change in the policies in which these contributions are invested. as long as frontex, easo and fami are financed to encourage the invasion of migrants and not to block their flow, i am not going to vote in favour of measures like this.
in writing. ‒ we consider it appropriate, in line with the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity on which the european union is founded, to mobilise the flexibility instrument to raise the necessary resources for the immediate financing of assistance and rescue operations linked to the migration phenomenon and the management of refugees. it is a central humanitarian, social and security issue for which the european parliament as a whole and each of us individually are collectively responsible: we need to support the areas of the greatest emergency quickly and offer a strong collective response for 2017.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which concerns the introduction of funding measures to counter and manage the current migration, refugee and security crisis. the report approves the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, which in this case corresponds to an amount of eur 530 million, and its breakdown over the various budgetary years. the urgent needs call for the mobilisation of additional funds to alleviate the crisis. i think it is essential that funding be allocated fairly, taking account of the absolute priorities and ensuring the necessary transparency. the report welcomes the commission's proposal in the context of the multiannual review, which proposes a greater budgetary capacity to react more rapidly to unforeseen events. the decision will be adopted as from 1 january 2017 in order to minimise the timeframe for mobilising the flexibility instrument.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution. to finance the current management of the migration, refugee and security crisis, the commission proposes to use the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 530 million. as long as we continue to use this money to finance programmes such as frontex, easo and fami, which are used to encourage the invasion of migrants, the problem will only get worse.
in writing. ‒ as was easily foreseeable, the expenditure to be borne by the union in 2016 to address the migration, refugee and security crises is far in excess of what was provided for in the budget line on 'security and citizenship'. the flexibility instrument should therefore be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. this amount reflects the enormous costs of taking in migrants and refugees, which have often been paid directly by the states concerned and not just in monetary terms, so i can only hope that flexibility will be implemented. in accordance with the multiannual financial framework, the mobilisation of the appropriations is in line with the current priority of ensuring greater room for manoeuvre in the community budget. in fact, the increase in flexibility requires that the annual amount of the instrument be increased by at least eur 2 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ financing immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration and security crisis is a priority that the eu can no longer put off. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which makes up for the shortcomings that we have. the flexibility instrument made available by the commission has not so far made it possible to finance urgent measures on migration, refugees and security. the eu institutions have approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for a total amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. in my view, this represents an important step forward towards a more flexible management of the european budget to deal with emergencies not covered when the multiannual financial framework was adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation of the 2017 flexibility fund is necessary to support measures related to the migration crisis given its exceptional nature which therefore justifies the use of the flexibility instrument.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because there is a need for a total change in immigration policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the ongoing migration, refugee and security crisis. supporting the report means strengthening the flexibility instrument, which was implemented in order to ‘allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure that cannot be financed within the limits of the ceilings’. furthermore, the mobilisation of an amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations will prove crucial in financing the measures to tackle the fields of migration, refugees and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the increasing flow of migration makes it necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 530 million. moreover, such mobilisation would be in full compliance with article 11 of the mff regulation, which enshrines the need to ensure greater flexibility of the eu budget. as a politician, i believe that this decision should be implemented from 1 january, because of the constant increase in the rate of migration. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 (mff) authorises the use of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the mff. the european commission, having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations and exhausted any unallocated margin under the security and citizenship expenditure heading, proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017, for an amount of eur 530 million over the ceiling of the same heading 3, to finance measures to manage the migration, refugee and security crisis. i am generally in favour of maximum flexibility within the mff and the issue of the migration crisis is certainly of importance. i am, however, puzzled that we are not really seeking reallocation from less priority budget lines and are therefore resorting to these 'special' instruments provided for in the mff in order not to tackle the problem in a structural way. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report intends to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances under the european union solidarity fund (eusf), in order to ensure a faster response in the event of future natural disasters. this advance, which may not exceed 10% of the planned financial contribution and in any event eur 30 million, is granted at the request of a member state, following a preliminary assessment by the commission. the possibility of providing for advances is a positive change compared to the initial version of the eusf regulation. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund was set up to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the regions affected by such events. the šulin report, which i supported with my vote today, calls for the mobilisation of the eusf to pay advances to the general budget of the union for 2017. the purpose of this technical measure is to approve the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to ensure faster and more efficient payment of advances in the event of disasters occurring in the coming year. this measure represents a great victory for parliament, which can thus strengthen the effectiveness of disbursements and reinforce the message of solidarity underlying the use of the eusf when a member state is suffering serious damage as a result of natural disasters.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is an important instrument that allows the allocation of european funds to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters, to help the affected populations and territories. the aim of this proposal for a decision is to allocate 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to enable timely action to be taken by means of advance payments in the event of disasters occurring in the coming year. i think that this measure is acceptable and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by natural disasters of recognised severity, as well as to demonstrate in concrete terms the solidarity of the european institutions with the regions affected by these events. the fund may provide financial support to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations which have been affected by major natural disasters, i.e. where the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion. the fund may also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. enabling the eusf to be mobilised quickly means reducing the time needed for economic intervention in the event of major natural disasters and providing concrete assistance to those affected. it is an act of responsibility that we must all agree to.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the decision in question authorising the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances to the 2017 general budget. the proposal is to enter in the union budget an amount of 50 million in appropriations for the timely payment of advances in the event of catastrophes. this decision is the result of a new provision which speeds up the delivery of aid to countries which may be affected. the report underlines that the advance should not exceed 10% of the planned financial contribution and should always be allowed only at the request of a member state and after the commission's preliminary assessment of its application to the eusf. the council decision is fully in line with the meaning of the european union solidarity fund: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial support is not only a valid method of financial support but also a clear message of community solidarity. in order to minimise the time taken to mobilise the fund, it is necessary that this decision be adopted as from 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to provide financial assistance to member states affected by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with people affected by tragic and unexpected events. however, the timeliness of financing must be ensured by speeding up the procedures for disbursement. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the payment of an advance, before the final decision on granting the funding is taken, can improve the effectiveness of the fund and demonstrate that europe can move quickly from words to deeds, giving substance to the political message of solidarity towards communities affected by serious natural disasters. my thoughts and concern are with the people affected by the dramatic earthquakes in italy, who need timely access to the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. - i vote for it. this proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund does not relate to any specific case of natural disaster but aims to enter 50 million appropriations in the general budget for 2017, thus allowing for early action in the event of disasters by means of advances.
in writing. ‒ our europe is increasingly confronted with natural disasters, as we italians know with regret, and we strongly support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire and maintenance of computers and peripheral equipment, and the purchase, hire and repair of computers and peripheral equipment, including the purchase, hire and repair of computers and peripheral equipment, and the purchase, hire and repair of computers and peripheral equipment. the adoption of this measure aims to reach citizens more quickly when natural disasters and the devastation that they see suddenly and unpredictably occur. it is thanks to this instrument that, if the italian state were to be able to submit an application for admission to the fund in accordance with the requirements, our populations affected by the recent devastations could prepare themselves for a more serene 2017. however, it must be recognized that the use of the fund's resources must be used to implement prevention so that this mobilization is not lost, but can create ad hoc structures so that we do not have to witness a repeat of cataclysms. in this sense, it is seen as an investment in a more secure future and not just as sporadic aid.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions in europe. i voted in favour of this measure, which aims to speed up the delivery of aid to the countries concerned by means of a financial advance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal because i welcome the possibility of speeding up the delivery of aid to countries affected by natural disasters, including at regional level. to this end, i consider it necessary to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for a timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of disasters occurring in the coming year.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report to speed up aid to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ we have rightly attached great importance in this plenary session to the difficult earthquake emergency which has struck central italy in recent weeks. i therefore find it very appropriate that the approval of the proposal to mobilise eur 50 million immediately for the solidarity fund for 2017 should coincide. these figures will provide a decisive cover for the response to future emergencies.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal, unencumbered by the specific characteristics of a national case or a specific event, allows for an effective and timely response to any disasters over the next year. i voted for this resolution because it strengthens the bond of solidarity between the peoples of europe, at a time of need. and i think that's what we need more than anything. in catastrophic circumstances, the european union will be able to intervene, both by providing for greater budgetary flexibility and by finding more concrete and shared solutions between european partners in advance to respond to future emergencies. the solidarity fund is one of the most effective instruments for restoring the credibility and trust of citizens in the european institutions. finally, this provision strengthens cooperation between the commission and the member states in budgetary management and in crisis situations, and it should certainly be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2017 budget. increasing the general budget by the amount of eur 50 million symbolises solidarity for any member state that falls victim to the damage caused by a natural disaster. furthermore, mobilising the budget will contribute to the european union solidarity fund’s aim to enable the union ‘to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations’. lastly, mobilising the budget will also ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources as well as enhancing the fund’s effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was set up by the european union itself to deal with major disasters and to offer solidarity to the affected nations. there is a further good reason to vote in favour of this proposal and that is the compliance with the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020; article 10 provides for the possibility of mobilising the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. it would also allow us to intervene in a timely manner when disasters occur to help the affected population. the fund also sends a message of solidarity to the affected populations, so that they do not feel abandoned to their fate. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances under the european union solidarity fund (eusf), in order to try to ensure a faster response in case of natural disasters in the coming year. it should be noted that the advance is granted at the request of a member state and after prior assessment of the relevant application to the eusf by the commission, and that this amount cannot exceed 10% of the planned financial contribution and cannot exceed eur 30 million. it should be recalled that the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the eusf up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million, above the limits of the relevant mff lines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the final agreement on the 2017 budget reached at the end of the conciliation procedure on 17 november. the european parliament has obtained the inclusion in the budget of certain increases, in particular, among others, those for heading 1a, for the youth employment initiative, for heading 4 (palestine) and for the staff of certain agencies linked to heading 3 (europol, eurojust, easo). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. however, there are several criticisms, including a lack of well-defined political priorities and the necessary cuts to make this budget sustainable and credible also to european citizens. the continuing increase in administrative and bureaucratic costs (just think of a retroactive adjustment of eu staff salaries of 3.3%), therefore, led me to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european union has faced crucial challenges in recent years that have called into question its ability to intervene effectively in an increasingly changing environment. migration, natural disasters, the need to boost investment for growth, jobs and security are some of the key issues that require strong capacity for action. the geier-tarand report, which i supported, approves the draft budget for 2017, which was the result of conciliation with the council. the text focuses on a number of priorities: increased support for unemployed young people, funds to increase the most important initiatives in favour of smes, transport infrastructure projects, research and student mobility with erasmus+. the commitment appropriations in the 2017 budget amount to eur 157,86 billion and eur 134,49 billion in payment appropriations. particularly important is the €500 million for the yei, the youth employment initiative, a concrete eu signal that is going in the right direction, alongside the €728 million to increase funding for migration. the medium-term objective remains to have a more flexible budget, capable of mobilising funds to respond to the most important priorities.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the european union represents about 1% of the eu's gross national income and is therefore complementary to national budgets. the draft budget for 2017 must take into account the expressed wish of the people of great britain to leave the european union. the draft budget reflects and supports the political priorities set by commission president juncker; it also seeks to provide a european response to the challenges of managing migration, combating terrorism and organised crime, protecting the union's external borders and working with the eu's neighbouring regions. some of the budget's main priorities are related to employment, growth and investment, as the growth forecasts remain modest, even as the european economy continues to recover. there are other sectoral priorities to be taken into account in the budget, such as security of energy supply, research and innovation and climate action (cop21). finally, the fight against cybercrime, effective border management and the defeat of terrorism are also essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reports in question today. the 2017 budget shows tentative signs of stimulating growth, creating jobs - especially for young people - and tackling the migration crisis. this is the case, for example, with the additional €500 million that the european parliament has managed to secure for the youth employment initiative (yei) and the additional €200 million that will boost growth and jobs projects (cosme, cef, horizon 2020 and erasmus+). i regret, however, the reduction in commitments to mediterranean countries to eur 332 million from the eur 340 initially planned and the postponement, for lack of a legal basis, of the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) funding of eur 250 million to address the root causes of migration.
in writing. ‒ this is the final agreement for the 2017 budget. it has major criticisms, including a clear lack of political priorities and the necessary savings to make this european budget sustainable and credible also to the citizens: the continuing increase in administrative and bureaucratic costs (the latest being a retroactive adjustment of eu staff salaries of 3.3%) shows how the reality of living in brussels is disconnected from everyday life in the different european countries.
in writing. - i vote against it. we cannot support a budget that squanders the money of the people to finance failed policies.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support the draft joint budget because i believe that it has finally taken a more appropriate approach to the emergencies that the member states have had to face with great difficulty for years, perhaps even unimaginable. it provides for increased appropriations and an increase in the margins for the funds required not only by the migration crisis but also by the natural disasters which, in the year which is drawing to a close, have weakened the very fabric of europe. it is therefore commendable that the project should contain: the overall level of commitment appropriations will be eur 158 billion and payment appropriations eur 134 billion, the level of the flexibility instrument will be eur 530 million and the overall margin for commitments and for contingencies will be eur 1.4 billion and eur 1.9 billion respectively. however, i would like to call for greater attention to tackling youth unemployment through an increase of eur 500 million to the youth employment initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it is in line with what is already established in the multiannual budget and gives priority to growth and employment. the measure also provides significant support to students through increased funding for the erasmus programme and smes. the commission also proposes to strengthen europol and eurojust to stem illegal immigration to europe and to manage the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the budget because the text shows that the available margins for a number of headings have been fully used and because the budget also widened the gap between commitments and payments.
in writing. ‒ voting against the general budget of the european union: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate the parliament's delegation which negotiated the 2017 budget for having achieved a very satisfactory result: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a sign of a change of pace in europe, which is only just beginning and which will have to continue with the most delicate budgetary dossier, the multiannual financial framework, on which the commission and governments will soon have to show the political will to effect a real breakthrough for growth and solidarity in europe.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget is a very delicate budget, i would call it a 'middle budget', trapped in the logic of the past, but with positive elements, which look at the needs of the european union today. and it is for these elements that i voted in favour. the increase in programmes which are essential for economic growth, such as horizon and cosme, and the increase in the budget for erasmus. but above all i voted in favour of the new appropriations for the youth employment initiative. in my region, sicily, youth unemployment is over 50%, a figure which makes us lose confidence in the future. it is therefore essential to insist on measures for young people and employment, to link the use of these resources to concrete actions that create real employment opportunities, so that they are not dispersed in internships and casual jobs without prospects. of course, we must stress that this is not a complete report. the big absenteeism is again support for the migration crisis, increased resources for the mediterranean countries and the fund for africa. the 2017 budget is the european union's first step in a new direction, which will be definitively pursued with the multiannual financial framework, and we will not settle for that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 2017 budgetary procedure: joint text. just as the report stresses, supporting the procedure will result in ‘ensuring an orderly progression of payments in relation to the appropriations for commitments so as to avoid any abnormal level of unpaid invoices at year-end’. furthermore, this expresses that the council and parliament will take the necessary steps to prevent the accumulation of excessive amount of unpaid bills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i feel that i share the proposal for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. europe faces countless challenges and if we are to tackle them seriously, from the unacceptable level of youth unemployment to the management of migration flows, investment is needed. these investments are only possible if you have a proper budget. this year the negotiations on the eu budget for next year have finally succeeded in bringing something good and thanks to the firm position of parliament and, within the council, of the italian government, we have taken a step in the right direction. an increase of 500 million is foreseen for the youth employment initiative, another 150 million will go to research, smes and crossborder infrastructure programmes, and a further 700 million will be allocated to the development heading, particularly as regards the management of migration routes. these appropriations will not be decisive in themselves, but they are a very important first step and show that a changing europe closer to the citizens is still possible.
in writing. ‒ the final agreement on the 2017 budget was based on the commission's proposal at the end of june, followed by a council position which provided for many reductions, and finally the parliament's reading at the end of october, which proposed large increases; as expected, the solution was in the middle. parliament succeeded in imposing its views on some increases, in particular for heading 1a and new support for the youth employment initiative; there were also increases in heading 4 and in the staff of some agencies linked to heading 3. the council was pleased to have unbundled this annual procedure from the mid-term review of the mff: however, any new commitments, such as those for the youth employment initiative, will then be scaled up for the total calculation. in my view, all the criticisms already expressed at the end of october remain, including a clear lack of political priorities and the necessary savings to make this budget sustainable and credible also to the citizens: the continuing increase in administrative and bureaucratic costs shows how the reality of brussels is disconnected from daily life in the various european countries.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the commission, in the light of the serious situation in the earthquake-affected areas, to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention and to consider extending the existing solidarity fund calculation, which is currently based on the effects of damage caused by a single catastrophic event, to a cumulative calculation of damage caused by several natural disasters in the same region in a year. the importance of complying with the requirements for the construction of seismic infrastructure and buildings is also emphasised. the commission is also invited to take all necessary steps to examine requests for assistance from the european union solidarity fund in good time in order to ensure that it can be mobilised quickly. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ central italy has been hit, since august 2016, by a series of earthquakes of considerable intensity that have devastated cities, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, compromised economic activities and, above all, destroyed part of the great historical and cultural heritage that was preserved in the territory. the peak of seismic events occurred with the october 30 earthquake, with a magnitude of 6.5 on the richter scale. some 400 people were injured, 290 people lost their lives and over 100,000 residents were forced to flee their homes. the joint resolution adopted today by parliament, which i strongly support, is an important signal of the union's concern for our country and the areas tragically affected by the recent earthquakes. the text calls for the exclusion of investments in post-earthquake reconstruction from the calculation of the deficit provided for in the stability pact and for all available eu funds to be used to help earthquake-hit areas. the european commission has already announced an initial disbursement of aid worth eur 30 million from the solidarity fund which will be voted on shortly by parliament.
in writing. ‒ in recent months, central italy has been hit by several earthquakes, the most severe of which occurred on 30 october: it was the strongest earthquake to hit the european union since 1980. it is important that we continue to act with the speed and professionalism we have seen in these months into the future: the european union must continue to show the whole of its solidarity, both moral and material, to the affected territories. the budgeting of the annual financial allocation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is certainly going in the right direction, but the commission needs to speed up the procedures as much as possible and to advance the disbursement of the support funds. the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) will certainly be useful in supporting agricultural activities that have been damaged by earthquakes but it is crucial to create synergies between all available instruments, including the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and to ensure that resources are used effectively for reconstruction activities and all other necessary actions, in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities. a more humane, more united and closer europe also depends on how it responds to situations like this.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question which calls on the commission to encourage the best use of all available resources to help italy in its reconstruction after the recent earthquakes. earthquakes that have leveled entire countries and disrupted the lives of tens of thousands of people are not sporadic events but natural phenomena destined to recur periodically. prevention is needed, making the best use of the various existing funds, including the structural funds and the european investment fund, to equip the areas most prone to earthquake risk with adequate anti-seismic measures, avoiding future earthquakes with the same tragic impact. the report contains the same request that was made some time ago to commission president juncker and commissioner moscovici to exclude from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact investments for sustainable reconstruction and anti-seismic operations. i think it is paradoxical that the flexibility clause is triggered in the event of a major disaster and cannot be used to prevent catastrophes, that is to say, to prevent such events from causing death and devastation.
in writing. ‒ the resolution presented on the recent earthquakes that have brought central italy to its knees is very comprehensive, requiring wide-ranging intervention in the territory and not taking into account the costs of reconstruction in order to comply with the stability pact. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ "it's just words" is the mantra that is often repeated in the face of measures with manifestly beneficial effects that resemble electoral promises. however, it is clear from the resolution that this time the eu intends to intervene as soon as possible in favour of italy and the people of the areas affected by the earthquake not only on 26 august but also on 26 and 30 october. it is not just a matter of telling stories, but of a real stab at a land which today is mourning the deaths of more than 290 people and which must find, in the harsh winter, a dignified accommodation for over a hundred thousand displaced persons. no, it will not be an easy christmas, but it will certainly be pleasing to know, if it is accepted, that the invitation to the commission to exclude from the calculation of national public deficits in the framework of the stability and growth pact investments in favour of sustainable reconstruction and anti-seismic prevention. the possibility of extending the european solidarity fund to the cumulative calculation of the damage caused by different disasters in the same region in a year could only benefit areas facing multiple natural difficulties. we can, for the time being, welcome the greater flexibility granted to italy in the calculation of the deficit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it calls on the commission, in the light of the very serious and exceptional situation in italy following the recent earthquakes, to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention, including those co-financed by the esi funds and allocated to thematic objective 5 (prevention, promotion of adaptation to climate change, risk prevention and management). i also welcome the advance of funds which the commissioner has granted in this house for the most urgent measures, although this is not yet quite sufficient.
in writing. ‒ in the plenary session in brussels, we approved parliament's resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes. it is a very positive resolution, which recognizes - in view of the extraordinary exceptional nature of the italian case - both the efforts being made by the government and the need to be better prepared for the risks of extraordinary events. the proposal to amend the regulation on the solidarity fund is certainly a step forward, since it speeds up the procedures, simplifies them and makes the disbursement of funds more immediate than the decision taken. i voted in favour of this resolution because it not only meets the needs of the italian people, but also responds to the european need to allow a strategic plan for security, facilitating and derogating from the rules of the stability and growth pact. i therefore consider it essential that paragraphs 6 and 7 be adopted, which call for the greatest possible flexibility and stress the urgency of excluding from the stability and growth pact investments made through the structural funds to secure the most vulnerable territories and areas.
in writing. ‒ the dramatic earthquakes that have recently struck the central regions of the italian peninsula represent a deep wound not only for italy but for the whole of europe. the symbolic promise of the european commission to rebuild norcia cathedral and the announcement of the first tranche of funds to deal with the emergency are the first concrete signs we appreciate; we now call for the exclusion from the stability pact of structural investment for the safety and reconstruction of buildings in accordance with the latest anti-seismic standards. i very much hope that these tragic events will be an opportunity to demonstrate that the european union is first and foremost a community of values attentive to the needs of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, following the earthquake events in italy, the text calls on the commission to put in place all the necessary measures to provide italy with rapid and effective support through the european union solidarity fund, also taking into account the possibility of using the european fund for rural development to support rural areas and agricultural activities affected by earthquakes. i also think it appropriate to ask the commission to ensure that all the resources in question are actually used by the italian government for this specific purpose.
in writing. ‒ despite the heroic efforts made by civil protection forces the earthquakes in italy have led to the tragic loss of 290 lives and an urgent need to provide relief and reconstruction to the affected areas and to the 100 000 people displaced by the disaster. due to the costs of this disaster, it is very important that italy receive increased flexibility in its deficit calculations – this important issue is included in paragraph 6 of the resolution. this paragraph also rightly calls on the italian government to ensure that extra resources provided are used to the benefit of those affected and displaced by this tragic disaster. another key paragraph in the resolution is paragraph 7, as it calls on the commission to evaluate investing in sustainable reconstruction and other forms of important anti-seismic projects. these investments should be co-financed with esi funds and excluded from the deficit calculations in regard to the stability and growth pact. this is very important, as it would be wrong to restrict necessary short-term and emergency expenditure on behalf of the affected citizens and their communities.
in writing. ‒ europe has a responsibility, faced with a painful tragedy such as the earthquake which has more than once marked the summer of so many citizens and municipalities in central italy, to intervene concretely and urgently so that the reconstruction of lives, of historical heritage and of commercial relations can be resumed in a short and certain time. in order to respond effectively to this dramatic emergency, i feel it is urgent to call on the commission to establish short intervention times, to take measures to simplify and shorten the bureaucratic process of activating funds and to consider the possibility of using new loan mechanisms. italy needs timely, adequate and above all capable of rebuilding hope in the affected populations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains an important principle: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary constraints are not applied to reconstruction expenditure and to prevention expenditure. because while it is true that earthquakes, unfortunately, like other catastrophes, are not predictable, it is demonstrated the inadequacy of public structures and houses in the major italian seismic areas. we don't know where or when the next earthquake will strike, but sadly we know that it would be, for the umpteenth time, a terrible tragedy. we are not asking europe to replace our local administrations or to take responsibility for them, we are asking europe to enable our governments and our regions to invest, to rebuild, to modernise, to provide security, without this weighing on those budgetary constraints, which are no longer constraints but obstacles.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote we have shown our full solidarity with the thousands of people affected by the earthquakes in central italy. the solidarity machine worked perfectly thanks to the timely mobilisation of the voluntary civil protection units and the coordination of local, regional and national authorities. reconstruction will take time and will have a significant impact on national finances. italy, like no other country facing a similar catastrophe in the future, can be left alone in this reconstruction effort. we therefore ask the commission to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention. the existing european funds which allow for investment in the prevention of natural disasters and for the consolidation of reconstruction projects will be used to the best of our ability to achieve the long-term sustainable development of earthquake-hit areas. we call on the commission, however, to take all necessary steps to examine requests for assistance from the union solidarity fund as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of motion for a resolution rc-b8-1285/2016 on the situation in italy following the earthquakes because, as an italian citizen, and first as the representative of the italian people in the european parliament, i was deeply and directly affected by the human tragedy that has struck my country. the fragility of the italian territory has been substantiated by the recent earthquakes, which have killed and injured a large number of people and continue to claim the lives of 100 000 residents who have been forced to abandon their homes; in addition to the unacceptable social costs, there are also significant economic costs that affect the stability of the affected areas. i know the power of solidarity which is ignited within the member countries when one of them is hit and the consequent setting up of mechanisms of mutual assistance in emergency situations. i am encouraged by this awareness and by the moral duty i have to stand by my fellow citizens, and i welcome and ratify the content of the resolution calling for a mobilization against italy, especially with the timely intervention of the european union solidarity fund. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the strong earthquake swarm that hit central italy, starting with the devastating earthquake of 24 august 2016 and ending with the earthquakes of 26 and 30 october, caused the death of 290 people and over 400 injured. whole towns and villages were razed to the ground, forcing some 100,000 people to flee their homes. the italian government has committed itself and is working diligently to ensure decent living conditions for all those who have lost their homes before the arrival of the winter season. it is important that the eu does its utmost to support the italian authorities in this effort by examining the request for assistance from the solidarity fund as soon as possible and ensuring its rapid mobilisation, starting with the advances provided for by the 2014 reform. once the emergency is over, we will have to rebuild, to repair the enormous economic and social damage caused by the earthquakes, not forgetting the restoration of cultural heritage. in this case too, european support will be essential to promote sustainable and seismic-resistant reconstruction, through the synergistic use of its financial instruments and greater flexibility in the calculation of the deficit.
in writing. in the earthquakes that struck italy between august 24 and october 30, more than 400 people were injured, 290 lost their lives, and 100,000 were displaced from their homes as a result of these events. these seismic events have damaged local infrastructure, ruined historical and cultural heritage and damaged economic activities, in particular smes, agriculture and the potential of tourism and hospitality industries. the state of emergency must therefore be recognised and all necessary measures taken to provide rapid and effective funding through the european union solidarity fund. consideration should also be given to the possibility of using the european rural development fund to support rural areas and agricultural activities that have been affected by earthquakes. today's resolution confirms our call for immediate aid and for reconstruction costs to be outside the constraints of the stability pact. our appeal now goes to the italian state: we must work to give a future to the destroyed villages, with seriousness, security and maximum transparency!
in writing. ‒ the dramatic events that have recently struck central italy require the european and national institutions to reflect on security and prevention. i share the call on member states to support research to prevent damage, to manage crises in a timely manner and to minimise the impact of disasters. in the face of the tragedies which, over the last 15 years, have led to the deaths of thousands of people and the displacement of hundreds of thousands more as a result of devastating earthquakes, we recall the importance of complying with the requirements for the construction of earthquake-resistant buildings and infrastructure. parliament will continue to urge national, regional and local authorities to step up their efforts to bring structures into line with the current anti-seismic standards, with due attention being paid when building permits are issued. i am very pleased that the commission has agreed to allow greater flexibility in the calculation of the deficit on earthquake expenditure, which will make it possible to deal with the present emergency in an efficient and rapid manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes. the resolution calls on the commission to take into account the fact that, following the devastating earthquake in central italy on 24 august, other major earthquakes linked to the same seismic event have hit the same areas in recent months and that 100,000 people have been forced to abandon their homes because they are uninhabitable, and calls on the commission, in the light of the extremely serious and exceptional nature of the situation, to consider excluding from the calculation of national public deficits under the stability and growth pact investments in favour of sustainable reconstruction and earthquake prevention. it takes note of the request for assistance from the european union solidarity fund submitted by the italian government and calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to examine requests for assistance from the fund in a timely manner in order to ensure that it is mobilised swiftly. the resolution also stressed the importance of making advances available to the national authorities as soon as possible, so as to enable them to meet the pressing needs of the situation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the commissioners' declaration of interest is to ensure maximum transparency and accountability. however, the need to evaluate this type of statement several times in recent years, most notably by arias cañete, commissioner for climate action and energy, has highlighted several shortcomings in the regulation. i very much appreciated some of the solutions provided in the proposal, such as the introduction of the obligation to submit the declaration also in relation to family members and the extension of the restrictions on the employment of former commissioners by three years. i have already said that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent events involving former european commission president josé manuel barroso and energy commissioner miguel arias cañete have opened up new thinking at eu level about possible conflicts of interest involving eu top officials. the durand report, which i supported with my vote, addresses this issue by asking the commission to revise the code of conduct for commissioners. it is necessary to ensure that declarations of interests provide a complete picture of their financial situation, their activities and those of their family members. in the event of a conflict, the president should follow parliament's recommendations or allow parliament to recommend a vote of no confidence or to deprive the commissioner of his pension benefits and rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the period of reflection for former commissioners from 18 months to at least 36 months, the time that must elapse before they can take up private sector roles in their areas of competence. these are coherent measures which can extend the role of parliament, ensure greater transparency of the institutions and increase the confidence of the citizens.
in writing. the durand report is balanced and acceptable. i believe that the control of declarations of financial interests, and more generally of potential conflicts of interest concerning the members of the commission, must go beyond the mere appointment procedure of the commission. i intend to support this text with my vote and to call for a number of amendments to the commission's code of conduct and declarations of interests, with the aim of ensuring that they include sufficient information for the assessment of the financial interests of commissioners and that parliament is aware of all the amendments.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's rules of procedure, in annex xvi to the guidelines for the approval of the commission, provide that 'parliament may request any information relevant to the adoption of a decision on the qualifications of commissioners-designate and expects full information as regards their financial interests. the declarations of interests of the commissioners-designate shall be referred to the committee responsible for legal affairs for examination.' however, that annex does not specify the exact scope of the examination by the legal affairs committee: it is not clear whether the examination should be limited to a formal analysis of the information provided or whether it should be an in-depth analysis. this lack of clarity has led to major difficulties (also relevant to the appointment process of the current european commission). the committee on constitutional affairs of the european parliament, which is responsible, among other things, for the interpretation of parliament's rules of procedure, therefore needs to clarify this. the aim of this work must be to ensure a transparent procedure and the greatest possible information for the citizens, who have the right to know and evaluate who is called upon to lead them.
in writing. ‒ the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights wanted to propose these guidelines to parliament following a number of problematic cases (most recently that of commissioner arias cañete) in which it had to assess declarations of interests submitted by commissioners. two solutions are proposed to solve this situation: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the report's setting is quite good.
in writing. - i vote for it. i am in favour of any measure aimed at a more detailed check on the absence of conflicts of interest of commissioners.
in writing. ‒ events have led, all too often, to the dawn of the chronic cases of conflicts of interest within the institutions, certainly the most unfortunate belonging to the commission and this leads me to vote in favour of the report. the commission will therefore ensure the full independence of the work of the commissioners and ensure maximum transparency and accountability, since the declarations of financial interest will be used to assess potential conflicts of interest based on determining, objective and relevant elements relating to the portfolio of the commissioner in question. it will then be for the legal affairs committee to carry out a substantive analysis of the declarations by means of an examination to ascertain in full their authenticity and the conformity of their content. if anomalies or conflicts are found, the legal affairs committee will make appropriate recommendations to resolve the situation. it is essential, within this process, that the commissioner informs of the updating of his financial interests of a financial, professional, personal or family nature. i hope that a similar form of regulation will be adopted as soon as possible in italy, particularly as regards the components of the cdm, given the scandals, which have not yet been resolved, which have recently come to light.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it proposes important guidelines on the identification of conflicts of interest by the committee on legal affairs, a reform of the code of conduct of commissioners. in general, it is proposed to involve the european parliament and its powers more closely in the audit of financial statements, as well as additional hearings of commissioners in the event of a change of portfolio. the rapporteur also proposed that, in the event of a conflict of interest, the committee on legal affairs could make a recommendation to the president of the commission to withdraw confidence in the commissioner concerned.
in writing. ‒ the revolving door principle also affects the european commission, as was demonstrated by the case of former president josé manuel barroso, who joined the giant goldman sachs shortly after the end of his mandate in the european institution. the problem of conflict of interest is very broad. without going back to the mass resignation of the santer commission over allegations of corruption involving some of its members, it is enough to recall neelie kroes, vice-president of the commission between 2004 and 2010, who during her tenure was a director of an offshore company in the bahamas. juncker's refusal to publish decisions on the post-term activities of former commissioners at the ombudsman's request is certainly not helpful. the european parliament calls on commissioners to declare any current or past financial interests of their own or their family members, their assets, liabilities and any affiliation to non-governmental organisations and secret societies which may interfere with the exercise of their public functions. this request is made to strengthen the ethics and transparency of the institutions and to ensure the impartiality, integrity, diligence, honesty, accountability and discretion of the governing body of the european union. for these reasons, my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report on commissioners' declarations of interests guidelines is, in my view, well-structured and makes recommendations that can be shared, especially where it highlights the need for the juri committee's examination to be more than a mere formality. the proposals aimed at avoiding any conflict of interest of commissioners both during and after their term of office are equally acceptable. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it defines more clearly the notion of conflict of interest and the procedure for the control of declarations of financial interests, both before commissioners' hearings and during their term of office. in particular, i think it is appropriate that the report calls on the commission to revise the code of conduct for commissioners, in order to broaden the scope of declarations of interests and to identify a fairer way of defining family interests.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on a more precise check of the absence of conflicts of interest of commissioners.
in writing. ‒ the first step in rebuilding trust in europe is to improve the efficiency and transparency of the community institutions. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which i have been following for a long time in the committee on legal affairs, and which reaffirms parliament's strong position in favour of more forceful measures to ensure the political accountability of european commissioners, particularly in relation to any conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ just a few days ago, we were discussing in plenary the report of the european ombudsman on his key activities in the interests of the transparency of european procedures and the accessibility of citizens to the european institutions. last but not least, in that case citizens can ask for explanations, as in the case of the conflict of interest for former european commissioners (and officials) taking up posts in the private sector. i have voted in favour of this report today because i believe, as the rapporteur has rightly said, that the verification of the absence of conflicts of interest cannot be placed on the same level as the assessment of the candidate's competence, but rather constitutes an indispensable prerequisite for the hearing. the introduction of these guidelines can be a further step towards restoring citizens' confidence in the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because i fully accept the principle of integrity and the principle of independence of the members of the commission as laid down in the treaties, in which the two principles mentioned play a central role. the investiture in eu institutional roles must always be consistent with the public interest, marginalizing, and even eliminating, the existence of interests which might be incompatible with the office held. to remove any doubt about a conflict of interest is to reaffirm the independence of the commission itself and to give it new strength and credibility in the eyes of european citizens as well as the other institutions of the union. it is therefore important that the verification of the absence of conflicts of interest within the commission be placed on a different level from the assessment of the competences of commissioners and that this assessment be carried out not only at the time of appointment but also in those cases where a substantial change in the financial interests of the commissioner occurs during his term of office. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. with this resolution, the european parliament strongly calls for stricter control rules on commissioners' declarations of interests. the proposed measures are designed to increase the level of transparency and accountability of the european institutions, which are essential requirements for maintaining and strengthening the bond of trust with citizens. commissioners-designate should also be required to declare any contractual relationship and financial interests of family members. in the event that there is no certainty that there is no conflict of interest, the appointment of the commissioner concerned should be suspended. if, on the other hand, a conflict of interest is found, the juri committee may indicate the measures necessary to resolve it, such as the waiver of the financial interests in question and, in the most serious cases, it may decide on the incapacity of the commissioner-designate to perform his duties. from the appearance of commissioner cañete in the panama papers to the discovery that former commissioner kroes ran an offshore company in the bahamas, there have been too many scandals involving high-level figures in the european commission. when we talk about fighting corruption and tax evasion, we must be sure that such cases cannot happen again and that these new rules will make it possible to prevent them.
in writing. ‒ the following report analyses the 2013 directive on safety of operations at sea. the content analysis is quite critical. i agree that the lack of clear references to the civil liability of natural and legal persons and to criminal liability for accidents at sea is a negative aspect. another rather controversial aspect of the directive is the lack of an adequate financial guarantee for environmental disasters. i voted in favour of the proposal because i am very concerned about the protection of the environment and especially our seas.
in writing. ‒ 90% of oil and 60% of gas produced in europe comes from offshore operations. these activities are now taking place in increasingly extreme environments, further from the coast and in deeper waters. the increased difficulties also entail a possible increase in risks, which must therefore be properly assessed and avoided in order to avoid devastating consequences for the environment, the marine economy and coastal areas. the chrysogonos report, which i supported today, deals with liability, compensation and financial guarantees in the event of damage arising from offshore oil operations. the text calls on the commission to work closely with the member states to ensure the general updating of compensation and financial guarantee schemes. in particular, it called for provision to be made for claims for traditional damage caused by accidents, for an effective system to be set up for the management of payments and for operators and other responsible parties to be given adequate financial resources to meet any claims they may have as a result of the damage.
in writing. the chrysogonos report on liability, compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil operations is balanced, deals with the issue in a concrete way and proposes that the recognition of damage be extended to environmental impact as well as to the more strictly economic-equity areas. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ offshore hydrocarbon operations are carried out in deep water and some in harsh environments and in areas where the main source of income is tourism. the safety of operations at sea directive was adopted following the deepwater horizon explosion, with the aim of setting minimum requirements to prevent major accidents from occurring and limiting their consequences. however, the directive does not deal with liability for civil damage caused to natural or legal persons and does not address the issue of criminal liability. the definition of criminal offences and the type and minimum level of penalties are not harmonised within the eu. criminal liability should therefore be introduced at eu level, thus leading to improved environmental protection and compliance with safety measures. in the case of claims for damages following an accident at sea in the hydrocarbon sector, the damage is usually purely economic. a close correlation is needed between traditional liability regimes, claims management regimes and the availability of financial guarantee instruments; the commission and the member states must therefore work together to update these schemes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because i believe that the absence of an effective system of liability and financial guarantee to cover compensation for damage caused by offshore oil and gas operations represents a serious risk for the member states. i think that an update of the liability regimes in force in the member states could limit the outsourcing of operator liability for accidental pollution to the detriment of public finances. i therefore urge the commission to encourage member states to develop financial guarantee instruments for claims for damages arising from accidents in the field of offshore oil and gas activities or the transport of oil and gas, including in the event of insolvency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by parliament which proposes an analysis of the directive on safety of operations at sea 2013/30/eu adopted following the deepwater horizon explosion on 20 april 2010 and the subsequent oil spill, and which set out the objective of establishing minimum requirements to prevent major accidents in the framework of operations at sea in the hydrocarbon sector.
in writing. ‒ the report, for which i voted in favour, assesses the effects of the directive on safety of operations at sea, which lays down minimum requirements to prevent the occurrence of major accidents in the framework of operations at sea in the hydrocarbon sector in the european union and to limit the consequences of such accidents. i believe that the directive should be updated to take account of civil liability such as personal injury, property damage and economic loss. i appreciate that the report notes that the liability regimes available in the member states are having difficulty in meeting the majority of claims for compensation in relation to accidents resulting in widespread pollution damage. in this connection, i believe it is necessary for the european union to have a legal framework which enables claimants, such as ferry companies or fishery processing companies, to obtain compensation in the event of oil spills from offshore installations. i also believe that the european union should raise the current minimum guarantee amounts and go beyond the limitation of the compulsory guarantee to insurance products alone, including bank guarantees, good faith guarantees and, if necessary, guarantees from the insurer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure that compensation schemes and financial guarantees for offshore oil and gas operations are updated.
in writing. ‒ as offshore oil and gas operations are forced to relocate to increasingly extreme and unfavourable areas, i believe it is a priority to provide precise rules on the liability of operators, compensation and related financial guarantees. i therefore agree with the report, which points out that hydrocarbon sources are increasingly farther from the coast and at greater depths, so that accidents in these environments would have devastating transboundary consequences. in view of the above, i welcome the adoption of directive 2013/30/eu on safety at sea, but i believe that it should be supplemented by precise rules on the subject of civil liability for damage to natural and legal persons. these rules need to be harmonised because national legislation is still applied to these events, which are usually transnational. i also urge the commission to encourage the member states to develop financial guarantee instruments for maritime activities and the transport of hydrocarbons, even in the event of insolvency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because i too believe that it is necessary to minimise the damage from a possible accident in offshore oil and gas operations. in particular, i agree with the need to establish a compensation mechanism to protect potentially affected sectors, such as fisheries and tourism, by ensuring appropriate compensatory measures.
in writing. ‒ attempts to introduce legal instruments to prevent and remedy environmental damage caused by offshore oil and gas operations can help to ensure that the polluter pays principle is properly applied. the introspection activity, the setting up and operation of the platforms can have a serious and devastating impact on marine fauna and flora, on fishing, on coastal tourism and more generally on all activities of the blue economy. compensation and reparation schemes, as well as financial guarantee instruments capable of responding even in the most costly cases, should therefore be identified, ensuring adequate environmental restoration and monetisation of the damage for the affected activities. this applies to areas already affected by extractive activities, as it would not make sense to expand such harmful activities, assuming that compensation is sufficient to 'compensate' for their impact. we must avoid new drilling, and we must abandon all efforts to use fossil fuels and instead encourage renewable energy sources, preferably with a view to self-production. all that said, my vote is still in favour.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the area of liability for damage caused by offshore oil and gas operations is a worthwhile objective to be pursued, together with the strengthening of financial guarantee instruments for compensation for the damage caused by offshore oil and gas operations. the report takes up these objectives and proposes further harmonisation of the legislative framework, including a collective redress mechanism. i would like to share the contents of the report and therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not consider that there is a need to update the compensation and financial guarantee schemes in the member states in the context of offshore oil and gas operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on greater coordination between the eu and the member states on compensation for offshore oil and gas operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because member states had until 19 july 2015 to update their national regulatory frameworks for oil and gas operations to comply with the directive on safety of operations at sea. now, to protect our coasts and our territories, we must improve the liability regime in the territorial waters of the 18 member states which are affected by operations at sea of exploration and exploitation currently under way or planned. therefore, ensuring that the compensation and financial guarantee schemes for offshore oil operations in the eu are up to date is now a matter of urgency. the key elements of a comprehensive eu-wide framework for the prevention of major accidents and the limitation of their consequences must be developed and implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that, in order to better protect the marine environment, the liability regimes in force in the member states must be updated in such a way as to ensure that, when an accident occurs in the waters of those states, it does not have a negative impact on the future of maritime operations in the hydrocarbon sector or on that of the eu as a whole, especially when those countries that are harmed are those that live from maritime tourism. in addition, it seems appropriate to promote a balanced solution with regard to the requirements for compulsory financial guarantees because, on the one hand, it is necessary not to discourage oil companies from offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector, and on the other hand, the effectiveness of the 'polluter pays' principle must be preserved. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ at a time when member states are setting the conditions for exploiting the energy resources of the hydrocarbon sector, it is important to remember the tribute paid to the many workers who have lost their lives over the years. considering that inland oil and gas sources can contribute significantly to the existing energy needs in europe, it should be borne in mind that offshore oil and gas operations are occurring in increasingly extreme environments and could have important environmental consequences and devastating consequences for the economy of the sea and coastal areas. although oil and gas production in the north sea has been declining in recent years, the number of offshore installations is set to increase, particularly in the mediterranean and the black sea. to prevent accidents caused by offshore oil and gas platforms from having harmful cross-border consequences, eu action must be aimed at preventing and mitigating the consequences of such accidents, in the best interests of workers. the union's environmental policy must also be based on the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ this resolution analyses the situation of growing instability in the drc, regretting that the government and the independent national electoral commission have failed to organise presidential elections within the time limits set by the constitution. the eu is urged to take more concrete action and to immediately initiate the procedure under article 96 of the cotonou agreement and to adopt targeted sanctions, including visa bans and asset freezes, against the high-level officials and armed forces officers responsible for the violent crackdown on protesters and the political impasse, which prevents a peaceful and constitutional transition of power. the resolution also calls for a full, thorough and transparent investigation into alleged human rights violations during the protests, in order to identify those responsible and hold them accountable for their actions. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the democratic republic of congo is facing a particularly delicate moment. president joseph kabila's attempts to retain power have generated increasing political tensions, unrest and violence across the country, causing an electoral deadlock. since january 2015, the repressive action of security services agents has targeted activists, peaceful protesters, opposition and civil society representatives who have opposed the numerous attempts to allow the president to retain power beyond the constitutional limit of two terms. the joint motion for a resolution which i have supported today expresses deep concern at the situation of growing instability in the drc and calls for elections to be held in a timely and orderly manner, in full respect of the constitution of the african charter on democracy. the union must take concrete action to promote dialogue and immediately initiate the procedure provided for in article 96 of the cotonou agreement, providing for targeted sanctions against high-level officials and members of the armed forces who have been guilty of violence and human rights violations.
in writing. there are passages in the resolution which i consider unclear and which have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in the democratic republic of congo there is a risk of a new genocide. the people of beni province in eastern congo are victims of massacres and grave persecutions, and there is still a cloak of silence over them which we europeans have a political and moral duty to lift. we call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to launch an international investigation into these massacres involving the united nations and the international criminal court; that the eu send a special representative to the kivu area to prepare an urgent report to be presented to the european parliament and the highest european institutions; the european union is calling on the united kingdom and france to take action in the un security council to secure a binding resolution to stop these massacres as soon as possible. over two thousand families were killed and at least as many were lost to history: the international community, present with the un monusco mission, cannot stand by idly. if we do not intervene, the region will be destabilized with new innocent victims and new waves of migrants fleeing to more prosperous and safe countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo because, in view of the difficult situation of political instability and social insecurity in the country, it is absolutely necessary for europe and the international community to activate all the necessary processes to promote national pacification in the democratic republic of the congo. it is necessary to promote a democratic political system which allows the rotation of power, in accordance with the constitutional dictates. this is the basic and essential condition for getting the country out of the difficult and dangerous situation in which it finds itself and for preventing further suffering of the civilian population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this oral question, which denounces the serious situation in the democratic republic of congo. we must take decisive action as the eu and impose strong and individual sanctions on the governments responsible for the atrocities in the congo and, above all, we must bring the country back to free elections.
in writing. ‒ the report, on which i thought i would express a favourable opinion, expresses concern at the situation of growing instability in the democratic republic of congo in the pre-electoral context. in particular, i deplore the loss of life during the demonstrations of the past few weeks. in this connection, i believe that it is necessary for international organisations to launch a full, thorough and transparent investigation into the numerous documented cases of intimidation against human rights defenders, political opponents and journalists. in the light of this escalation of violence, i believe it is appropriate for the european union to adopt concrete sanctions such as visa bans and asset freezes against the senior officials and military leaders responsible for the violent repression of the demonstrators. i am also concerned that the present government has failed to organise the presidential elections within the time limits laid down by the congolese constitution and i hope that the electoral consultation can take place in a short time in a regular and peaceful environment.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the resolution in the light of the serious human rights violations taking place in the democratic republic of congo, in the face of which it would be cowardly to remain passive. the situation is all the more dramatic since joseph kabila, president since 2001, has no intention of ending his presidential status, despite the fact that the congolese constitution provides for a maximum of two presidential terms. therefore, it has repeatedly adopted administrative and technical tools to delay the elections scheduled for the end of 2016 as it emerged from the signing, on october 18, with the opposition, to postpone the presidential elections to 2018. a move of this magnitude has sparked a wave of outrage and dismay across the country, resulting in demonstrations that have led to violent repression by the authorities. in addition to expressing my deepest sympathy for the 50 victims of the clashes between protesters and the police, i would like to express my concern at the instability which is bringing the population, already exhausted by repeated crises, into deeper poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it provides for sanctions against those responsible for the violent repression in congo. i also share the attempt at political dialogue to resolve the problems through mediation by the african union and the efforts of cenco to broaden the consensus around a political transition. the eu must also continue to support the country's security and increase its capacity to mediate at local level.
in writing. ‒ the situation of growing instability in the drc, in a tense pre-electoral context, is of grave concern. i would remind you that the drc has committed itself under the cotonou agreement to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights principles, including freedom of expression and the media, good governance and transparency in political office. the dialogue with the drc authorities, established in accordance with article 8 of the cotonou agreement, with the aim of obtaining definitive clarifications on the electoral process, is not progressing well to date. i therefore believe it is important that the european union engages in a peaceful and constructive dialogue with all the political actors in order to prevent the current political crisis and violence from escalating.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the resolution calls for the resignation of president kabila at the end of his second term of office, in accordance with the congolese constitution which provides for the ineligibility of a president after two terms of office, and for elections to be held within the time limits set by the competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ the political situation in the democratic republic of congo is particularly delicate at the moment. president joseph kabila has made clear his intention to run again or to stay in power and the opposition is reacting strongly. in addition, the instability of the eastern regions, which are richest in gold mines and resources, bordering rwanda, kivu and benin, has not been pacified in recent years. the african country is facing a situation of social and political insecurity, at the dramatic expense of the civilian population who continue to die under the blows of militias inspired by the principles of islamic jihadism. the next few weeks could be crucial. we need a national political pacification with a democratic political system that allows for the alternation of power. this is the basic condition for the recovery of the democratic republic of congo and the international community, including the european union, must commit itself to this.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the serious deterioration of the human rights situation in the congo and the intensification of the phenomenon in the run-up to the elections; the serious abuses suffered by peaceful activists, journalists, opposition figures and civil society; we are very concerned about the people of the congo and the country. the actions, which aim to suppress the most basic civil and human rights, have in fact affected freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration. the numerous and serious human rights violations have included the blacking out of independent radio channels, arbitrary arrests and physical violence. given the suffering inflicted on a population already tested by years of economic, social and political crisis, evidenced by the alarming need for food assistance for some five million people, and the catastrophic effect of postponed elections, the result of non-transparent choices and mere government instrumentalization, we share the hope for the imposition of targeted sanctions on the senior government officials responsible for the current circumstances. we also call on the parties concerned to open a dialogue and to facilitate humanitarian aid and the operations of non-governmental organizations. we are also convinced that the european union and its member states will continue to provide humanitarian assistance, guided by the principle of maximum solidarity and seeking to alleviate the suffering of the people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo because i find its content in line with my assessments and concerns about the political situation in that state; the failure to hold presidential elections within the constitutional deadlines, the marginalisation of political opposition, the clear deterioration of the human rights situation, violence and distortions of the judicial system are perpetuated to the detriment of the establishment of democracy and the rule of law, which is the objective of the european development fund (national indicative programme 2014-2020 for the drc); i therefore support the call for an inquiry into the abuses against congolese civilians, and urge the eu to use all political instruments and, if necessary, sanctions against those who break the law and those who are hostile to the democratic process in the drc, in order to bring the humanitarian emergency back to the fore and lay a sound foundation for the final establishment of the rule of law in the country. in accordance with those assumptions, i voted in favour.
in writing. the european parliament reiterates its closeness to the people of the democratic republic of the congo and its commitment to respect for democratic values, the rule of law and human rights. the drc government continues to violate the constitution, the african charter on democracy, elections and good governance and the commitments it has made under the cotonou agreement. in particular, i condemn the violent repression of peaceful opposition demonstrations, the refusal to hold free elections and a peaceful transition of power, and the severe restrictions on freedom of expression and the media. it is clear that the european union cannot remain silent in the face of all this. i therefore support the call for targeted sanctions, in accordance with article 96 of the cotonou agreement, against the high-level officials and members of the armed forces responsible for the violent repression and the institutional deadlock which violates the constitution. it is hoped that a firm eu position will encourage all political actors to engage in a constructive dialogue that resolves the current crisis and facilitates a swift and peaceful return to normal democratic life.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to the people of the democratic republic of congo, who have been tragically affected by the demonstrations of recent weeks. i express my deep concern at the situation of growing instability in the drc, in a tense pre-electoral context, but i would remind the authorities, and first of all its president, that it is their primary responsibility to protect the citizens living on the territory of the nation, acting to protect the population from abuses and crimes and fulfilling their duty to govern in the strictest respect for the rule of law. the inability of the government and the independent national electoral commission to organise presidential elections within the constitutionally mandated deadline has set a dangerous precedent. parliament reiterated its call for elections to be held in a fair and timely manner, in full respect of the constitution of the republic and the african charter on democracy, and reiterated the government's responsibility to ensure an enabling environment for transparent, credible and inclusive elections.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, highlighting the high potential of renewable energy sources in developing countries - particularly in africa - encourages their financing and use, drawing attention to the extent and implications of energy poverty in developing countries and the eu's strong involvement in efforts to reduce such poverty. the committee also calls for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies, with the funds thus freed being allocated to effective social policies and actions to eliminate energy poverty in developing countries. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ one of the sustainable development goals is to ensure access for all to affordable, reliable, modern and sustainable forms of energy by 2030. today, there are 1.2 billion people in the world who do not have access to electricity, half of them in africa. a number that is constantly increasing because of population growth that is faster than the rate at which energy access is being expanded. the joint resolution adopted by parliament today. the commission's energyising development initiative, which aims to provide access to sustainable energy for more than 500 million people in developing countries by 2030, is welcomed by the committee and i support it. the establishment of technical assistance tools, the use of union experts to develop technical expertise in countries, the promotion of capacity building and the transfer of technology are crucial means to achieve important results; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the aim of ensuring access to energy for all, especially in rural areas, is to accelerate the continent's development, making it possible to create a system increasingly based on those renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind, which are abundant in africa.
in writing. although this resolution is in part acceptable, i see some passages which take away from the text its concrete character, merely to introduce ideas which are entirely ideological and partial, and for this reason i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ over 70% of africa's total energy consumption comes from renewable sources, but almost all of it comes from traditional biomass uses; there are still huge opportunities to include other sources, particularly solar and wind. given that demographic trends in africa will have a strong impact on land use requirements for crop production and on the need for firewood, a new policy of development support, which is sustainable and supportive, is necessary. we must proceed with the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies and encourage the allocation of funds thus freed to effective social policies and actions aimed at eliminating energy poverty in developing countries; the only definitive measure of the success of eu action is the extent to which it contributes to achieving universal access to energy while minimising greenhouse gas emissions, taking into account the principle of shared responsibility. supporting africa's development means creating better living conditions for people, reducing crisis areas, stabilising the countries in the region and, consequently, easing the pressure of migration flows on europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this resolution to draw attention to the scale and implications of energy poverty in developing countries. i think the potential of renewable energy sources in africa is very high, particularly with regard to solar and wind power generation that could ensure access to energy for everyone, especially in rural areas. i therefore urge the eu and its member states to put in place actions to facilitate the transfer of technologies so that they can be effectively used in developing countries. i welcome the various initiatives at international level to promote access to sustainable energy in developing countries, particularly in africa, but i stress the need for greater coordination to ensure greater efficiency. in this context, funding bodies (bilateral aid agencies, multilateral development banks, export credit agencies and the eib) can play a key role in combating energy poverty in developing countries. lack of access to reliable energy is a problem affecting two billion people worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the strategic and operational cooperation agreement under consideration between europol and ukraine provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. by may 2018, the new europol regulation, the regulation on the protection of personal data and the directive on the exchange of data in the course of investigations into serious crime or terrorism will come into force. the new regulation on the agency for the conclusion of international agreements on strategic cooperation between europol and third countries also ensures greater involvement of parliament, which will be called upon to express an opinion rather than merely give its consent or disapproval. in anticipation of that possibility, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ if 20% of europeans were to wake up one day with no electricity for a while, they would probably have to change their way of life completely. what we may see as an unlikely nightmare is true every day for 1.2 billion people, half of whom live in africa and the worst of whom live in sub-saharan africa. we know that by 2040, africa's electricity demand will be the same as india and latin america's in 2010, and today it is also known that 70% of the energy in the black continent comes from renewable sources, and there are huge development opportunities for the solar and wind sectors. access to electricity will certainly accelerate development, but it depends on energy governance, which can only be achieved through sound management of services and state capacity. therefore, i support the energising development commission's initiative to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure, which has as its main objective to take stock of the situation of energy poverty in developing countries, highlighting the large number of people who still do not have access to electricity. the resolution also pays attention to climate change in achieving global access.
in writing. ‒ access to electricity in sub-saharan africa is the worst in the world, with 1.2 billion people without access to electricity and an even larger number who cannot access it reliably. on the other hand, africa is the continent with the greatest potential in the world in terms of renewable energy. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu should support the efforts of developing countries to break free from energy poverty and encourage the achievement of the sustainable development goals, primarily poverty eradication. in addition, the eu can play a crucial role in technology transfer to developing countries, in order to ensure access to renewable energy for all by reducing the high costs of photovoltaic installations. in fact, i believe that energy is a key element in creating sustainable growth in many other sectors, including health, drinking water, agriculture and telecommunications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it underlines the need for concerted efforts by the eu and national governments on energy policies in developing countries. i believe it is essential to engage the eu in this direction not only because access to energy is a matter of fulfilling basic human rights, but also because it is a crucial element for economic development.
in writing. ‒ ms mcavan has been a strong advocate of this text, which explores an important aspect of the eu's commitments to combating climate change. one overlooked aspect of the agreements reached at cop21 and cop22 is the effort to support developing countries to change their energy plans and consumption, since these are the areas of the world most at risk in terms of access to energy supplies and clean energy in general.
in writing. ‒ this debate is about the sustainability of the development model, which is fundamental to the future of relations between the european union and developing countries, particularly those in africa. we are talking about the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy in the world and the greatest delays in electrification. i voted in favour of the report because i consider it essential to call for the promotion of sustainable access to affordable energy for those countries. in the 2014-2020 programming period, eu development assistance in the energy sector has increased considerably, as has international coordination for these initiatives, which need to be increased. finally, as has rightly been requested, i also believe it is essential, for the purpose of monitoring and the constant need to monitor progress in this field, that the commission verifies whether the percentages of funds for energy in developing countries are allocated to the different expenditure headings which exploit in particular renewable resources and reach the most peripheral regions.
in writing. ‒ considering the key role of energy in ensuring the fulfilment of certain human rights, such as access to drinking water; recognising energy as an indispensable tool for economic development; and weighed the importance of clean forms of energy in determining their sustainability; we support the mcavan report. these considerations are of particular relevance for africa, and in particular for sub-saharan africa. in this region, access to energy is particularly poor, the lowest in the world, but renewable energy sources are plentiful. we also agree with the emphasis on the importance of the sustainable and environmental dimension of energy. the increase in co2 emissions, of which 20% is emitted by deforestation, and more generally the effects of climate change increase the poverty of the most vulnerable regions, which are not responsible for causing the phenomenon. the increase in drought and energy poverty is also aggravating and, more and more often, directly causing wars and migration. in this context, it should be remembered that the groups most affected are the most socially vulnerable. to this end, we share the desire for the integration of a gender perspective in european energy policies. we therefore hope that the commission, adopting an increasingly holistic approach, will pursue greater cooperation with regional partners in this area.
in writing. ‒ sustainable access to affordable energy is the prerequisite for meeting basic human needs and rights and for the development of any economic activity. in africa, 600 million people still lack access to electricity, and that number is rising, as the rate of population growth is faster than the rate at which access to energy is expanding. the vast majority of the continent's energy consumption also comes from the use of biomass, which has a very negative impact on the environment in terms of deforestation, soil erosion and desertification, and on the lives of women, who are forced to make enormous sacrifices to collect wood and prepare meals using outdated and inefficient methods. yet africa is the continent with the greatest potential in the world for renewable energy production, wind and hydro. europe, through its development cooperation instruments and programmes and in accordance with the principles of climate justice, i.e. sharing the burden of environmental policies in a fair and equitable way, must support the efforts of local governments, promote investment and provide technical assistance to ensure access to energy for all.
in writing. access to energy is essential to meet some of the basic needs that underpin sustainable economic development, such as access to sanitation, heating and education. there are 1.2 billion people in the world who do not have access to electricity, half of them in africa, especially in sub-saharan africa where the situation is very serious. this number is set to increase as population growth in this area does not correspond to an improvement in access to energy. i decided to vote in favour of this resolution, sharing the need for governments and stakeholders to take an active and focused part in the fight against energy poverty, also with the help of the eu.
in writing. ‒ access to energy is essential for the economic development of a state. attention to the implications of energy poverty in developing countries and a stronger eu involvement in efforts to combat it must be a short-term objective pursued by the eu institutions. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. energy governance, although difficult to implement, is essential for economic and human development in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to amend and improve the european order for payment system. these amendments are necessary mainly because some member states have not yet applied the regulation, causing very negative consequences for those who want to recover a transactional claim. it is essential to standardise certain aspects of credit recovery, such as the timing of the granting of credit in the various member states, in order to streamline and speed up the processes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the chrysogonos report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. this is an important text which aims to provide feedback, after ten years, on the application of regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 which established a european procedure in this field. the report presents an overall positive picture of the application of the regulation in the various member states, but also stresses the need to make the regulation more widely used and known by union citizens. the text calls on the commission to present an impact assessment and, above all, to prepare for a future revision of the text aimed at ensuring greater harmonisation in the application of the procedure and removing some of the exceptions currently considered.
in writing. the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure is well structured and does not contain any criticisms. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the european order for payment procedure is to facilitate the recovery of sums in crossborder proceedings. it is an optional procedure, i.e. available as an alternative to equivalent national procedures. it may be applied for by correspondence or by electronic means and is enforceable in the other member states. the procedure is automatically issued on application, but the debtor may lodge an objection within 30 days. in the event of opposition, the injunction is terminated and the adversarial proceedings may be commenced. the essential elements for the use of this procedure are the speed with which the injunction must be granted, since the regulation provides that injunctions are issued within 30 days; and secondly, it must be possible to submit the relevant forms online. the european order for payment procedure may be used for interest due in the future, up to the date of actual payment. if the defendant opposes the application, the proceedings may not continue and may be abandoned, continued in ordinary court proceedings or continued in the european small claims procedure. there is no need for imminent changes, but more effort is needed on the review requests.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. as the statistics show, the functioning of the european order for payment procedure is satisfactory, but it appears to be limited in member states which already have such a tool at national level. the report indicates the need for concrete measures and awareness-raising campaigns to involve citizens, businesses and stakeholders in the benefits of a clear functioning of the procedure. the report stresses the need to issue payment orders more quickly, given that the procedure is not currently being applied in accordance with the existing regulation in many member states. the regulation provides that injunctions are issued within 30 days, but in many states the time limit is often longer than 6 months. the report proposes to revise the provisions on the application of the procedure and the exceptional review of injunctions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this implementation report on the state of play of regulation 1896/2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure. the rapporteur rightly pointed out that in many member states the regulation is still being applied very poorly, with negative consequences for those who want to recover a crossborder debt (especially small and medium-sized enterprises). the problems identified include the lack of the possibility to file the request for an injunction in different languages (the number of requests is increasing significantly in the states where it is allowed) and the lack of implementation of the e-codex system which allows for online submission of requests for injunctions.
in writing. ‒ as late payment is one of the main causes of insolvency, putting the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises at risk, the european order for payment procedure is an important instrument of judicial cooperation in civil matters, which is necessary for the functioning of the internal market. however, in some member states the rate of use was extremely low. i therefore believe that more can be done by focusing on more information through awareness campaigns that highlight the advantages of the procedure, such as speed, simplification and cost reduction, compared to similar national instruments. i also think that we should encourage the development of the e-codex system to allow applications to be submitted online, as well as to allow applications to be submitted in other languages. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i recognise the positive results of the use of this procedure in all member states, but i am convinced at the same time that much more can be done by promoting greater harmonisation and removing some exceptions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to facilitate the procedure for the recovery of uncontested pecuniary claims in crossborder civil and commercial disputes.
in writing. i can only say that i am in favour of the application of a mechanism which would enable the recovery of sums arising from debts which are certain, are defined in the amount beyond that due and are not disputed by the defendant, to be carried out quickly, easily and economically. i believe, however, that the european order for payment procedure needs more information for citizens and professionals in the member states, since it is a system designed to simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of proceedings for crossborder claims. it is optional, which makes it a useful alternative to national orders for payment. it should be noted, however, that this report does not take into account the many and very different national provisions and their interoperability, and i therefore encourage the commission to act accordingly. i also encourage member states to issue injunctions within 30 days and to accept applications in foreign languages.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because the existing regulation on this subject is working satisfactorily and has succeeded in simplifying, speeding up and improving the recovery of crossborder disputed claims. i also agree with the recommendations in the text which aim to reduce the length of the procedure for issuing european orders for payment, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal as it ensures easier recovery of sums of money in crossborder proceedings. the application of the european order for payment procedure constitutes a cheaper and faster way of recovering uncontested civil and commercial claims.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i believe that the procedure is a useful tool for the business world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it favours, without however abolishing the procedures existing in the member states and therefore without creating legislative conflicts since the procedure is optional, the easier recovery of sums in crossborder proceedings. the latter are increasingly important in promoting economic recovery policies in order to exploit the full economic potential of the union's internal market. there are many requests for payment orders of this type, some 12 000 and more widespread where such requests are already made in accordance with national procedures. this confirms the soundness of the underlying principles of the report, but also a direction to follow in informing businesses and legal professionals about the existence and benefits of the new procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the application of the european order for payment procedure should be fully implemented. the purpose of that procedure is to enable the best possible recovery of debts which are certain and defined in amount, due and uncontested by the defendant. this type of debt, if not recovered, endangers the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises and causes serious damage to the economic fabric. it is therefore necessary that the injunction procedure be applied in accordance with the current regulation, avoiding any misuse of it and aiming at maximising its functioning as in france, the czech republic, estonia, cyprus and sweden, which endeavour to issue injunctions within 30 days and accept applications in foreign languages. i believe that the aim should be to simplify and speed up the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of crossborder creditor rights in the eu. i therefore voted in favour.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for a statement from the commission and a roll-call vote on two astonishing recommendations by wednesday: the resumption of dublin transfers and the implementation of the eu-erdogan agreement. even the most vulnerable refugees should be deported to turkey and athens should be asked to rewrite the laws that prohibit it. these are recommendations that are not in keeping with the law, and the transfer of persons to greece has been prohibited since 2011 by the european court of human rights, then by the court of justice and by national courts. i wonder what the method is in all this madness. a commission which is incapable of relocating refugees, which is indifferent to the economic misery in greece, pretends to have power it does not have, and which eradicates human rights. he says that the refugees in greece are better off today: there is not a single piece of evidence to support this totally fabricated reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought, quite frankly, that this subject had been closed with your initial statement, so that, as far as i am concerned, we could take the words you said at the beginning, transcribe them and make them a statement by the whole of the european parliament condemning all the attacks, including the attack on the coptic christian cathedral in egypt. however, if this request remains, then my proposal is simply to ask all the groups to take this request to the urgencies, to remove one of the three urgencies we have already decided on - one of the proposals made by the socialists and democrats is about the mass graves in iraq - to put it in the context of those urgencies so that we can discuss it calmly on thursday morning and then vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the council and commissioner bulc, in particular, for their active cooperation, and also the shadows of all the political groups who have contributed during the long months of negotiations, because after three years and two months of work, this negotiation on the fourth railway package, probably the most important railway reform in the european union, has been completed. there was close cooperation between parliament, the commission and the presidency, in particular the dutch and luxembourg presidencies, which opened the trilogue, and all of them made it possible to complete a complex process, but one which went in the direction desired by parliament. we know very well that rail systems are very complex and this is shown, you know, by the number of employees in european companies: in italy there are about 70 000 employees, in france there are about 150 000, in germany 170 000, in belgium there are about 30 000. we are therefore talking about large national companies which, of course, offer the possibility of european know-how of particular value. the figures show that the reform, as it was conceived, would have been the subject of a great deal of debate, but this is natural, especially in those countries which preferred to consolidate their position by avoiding the opening up of the market and the consequences of competition. as i said, the scope of the reform is truly historic, since it touches on all the aspects that remained to be discovered in order to achieve a genuine liberalization of the market. one of the most controversial points in parliament was the separation between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking. finally, after many interventions on the text, parliament and council agreed that there should be no complete separation and that existing models can continue to coexist, but that it is important to put safeguards in place to ensure that infrastructure managers are impartial and can operate independently. i would also remind you that, in order to clarify the philosophy of the reform on a point which is also the subject of incomprehensible controversy, the network remains public. the network and maintenance remain public and not just because of the costs that are impossible for any private individual to bear, but as a recognition of a public good that we are committed to protecting. it's the service that's going to the race. and in connection with the structure of the railway undertaking there is a sensitive issue of financial transparency, which is a matter for the european parliament. we have always been thinking at european level about the whole text and we have decided that the distribution of dividends made with public money should not go to the holding companies to avoid private use of public funds, but should go directly to the state. the social repercussions of liberalization, as you will understand, are considerable. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i would like to emphasize, and i apologize if i take a few more seconds, that the european parliament's text has for the first time proposed a wording designed to protect railway workers. i would like to thank the house for its support of the railway package and i would like to thank all those who have worked on this reform over the past few months.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. unfortunately, the data says the exact opposite happened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fourth railway package is a continuation of this path, which is wrong and which is why we shall vote against it. it is true, as mr van de camp says, that there was a good debate in the committees, but in the end downward compromises were accepted and social clauses disappeared everywhere, for example the clause on the transfer of workers, the maintenance of employment levels. we will vote against this fourth railway package which, under the rhetoric of modernisation and liberalisation, actually conceals a decades-long backward step in the field of workers' rights, the quality of services, the safety of citizens, which is very important, and also the protection of the disabled. that's why we're saying no. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. this is exactly what we intend to do, also in contact with the trade unions in the sector. the rights acquired have been abolished and parliament at first reading, this parliament, had more to do with protecting the rights of workers. all this has been lost in the search for a compromise, provided that it is a compromise, and in our opinion it is a wrong compromise.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak today on behalf of mrs daniela aiuto, who was unable to be here but who wanted to take part in the debate, and i therefore read her message to you. we have supported the three reports on the technical pillar, but we could not do the same for the governance part of the package, because we are disappointed with the result achieved which exposes european services to risks that we have already seen in other sectors, and i am thinking of the airline sector and the alitalia case. while we are in favour of the creation of a single market and the harmonization of rules, we cannot forget that excessive liberalization without proper safeguards can have a negative impact on the european market. we have tried to include internal and external reciprocity clauses, but it has been decided not to do so. we are thus running the risk that, in order to dismantle established state monopolies, we will open up new public and private funds over which, however, we have far less control. the same applies to the protection of workers, who are increasingly exposed to occupational risks linked to new changes of operator and for whom no additional protection has been envisaged. for these and other reasons we cannot support the reports on which we are voting this week.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sassoli, and all the other rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. the adoption of the fourth railway package will complete the single european railway area, bringing to a conclusion a process begun ten years ago but which is twenty years behind the liberalisation of the european aviation market. the railway sector has never been able to respond to consumer demands, and has consequently lost more and more market share. the gradual opening of the market, through the introduction of european transparency rules and the limitation of the use of public funding for commercial activities, will improve the performance of rail services and open up new investment opportunities, fostering job creation. the opening up of the high-speed rail market was a necessary step towards making a sector which is struggling to compete with other modes of transport competitive. the increased use of rail transport by european citizens will ultimately contribute to the achievement of the european decarbonisation targets.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for a very frank and dynamic debate. it clearly shows the importance you attach to the railway sector. allow me now to reply to some of your comments and hopefully provide some clarification on what this package delivers. first, let me clarify some of the comments that were made by mr liberadzki and some other members of parliament. on pso, the text clarifies that all existing binding provisions at eu and member state level remain applicable after market opening, as does their scope of application. the provisions on staff transfer of the directive on transfer of enterprises apply to the situation of a change of freight public service contracts if the conditions of the directive are complied with. this would essentially have to be a transfer of assets and rolling stock to the new public service operator. it is also stated that member states can go beyond the level of staff protection, defined at eu level by directive 2001/23/ec, for instance by requiring a transfer of staff and social rights even if directive 2001/23/ec would not apply. moreover, member states are encouraged to assess the need for additional social safeguards in the case of market opening – of course in a reasonable manner. experience shows that they do take action with mandatory measures. the new pso regulation also spells out more clearly the transparency requirements on social rights and obligations, where a change of public service operator contributed to better staff protection. in no way does the fourth railway package lead to less social rights and protection for workers. on the contrary. the original commission proposals were even more ambitious, that is for sure, than what you have on your table today. i know that some of you, including all my liberal colleagues, would have liked to go further in reforming the regulatory framework for rail, but there were also many who were not ready to take bolder steps immediately. in the negotiations, we took into account the diversity of railway systems and structures across the eu, as well as the calls for flexibility and gradual change for the benefit of a single market. the text ready for the vote is what i believe eu stakeholders can absorb and implement at this stage. however, i am also confident that we very largely shared the same ambition for the future of rail and i am convinced that when the package is implemented, it will bring the railway sector into a brighter 21st century. let me now make a few other comments. rail will only be able to contribute decisively to the decarbonisation of transport – and i wish ms deli were still here – if it becomes more attractive, also from a service—offering point of view. this requires new investments, more efficiency and more innovation, and this is what the fourth railway package is about. other transport modes don’t sleep. they are picking up on decarbonisation and i believe in the long run, the differences will be in the amount of investments and in the amount of attractive services offered, so i hope railway will pick up on that and use this advantage, which it still has. let me also be very clear. the package does not address the issue of railway ownership. this is a very important message. there is absolutely no obligation to privatise railway operators. what we are establishing is an equal level playing field and competitive market conditions for the benefit of our citizens and businesses. this is what the fourth railway package is about. in the same manner, national and local authorities will still have the possibility to determine what are the needs for public service. with this package we ensure that the public services are improved and that value for taxpayers’ money is increased. this is why i would really like to encourage you to adopt the three texts by a very large majority being approved in the committee on transport and tourism, and i am really looking forward to your support and positive vote and to really together make this important step forward to finally give the railways a push to be back as a full player in the single transport area arena.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all the speakers, including those who criticised certain aspects of the reform. but i must say that it is a little bit incredible, and i say this with sympathy, that after three years and two months of work and seven months of trilogue, you come to this house to argue that the fourth package calls for privatization: i have to say, this is a little unbearable. i am sorry that there are no colleagues who have spoken on this point, because, as i say to the public, no national or european trade union has ever argued that the fourth package leads to privatisation. there are some comments, for example on transfer, as the rapporteur, mr van de camp, knows very well, but we are not talking about processes leading to the privatisation of anything. we talk about opening up the market, liberalizing services, and, tell that to your people, here the network and maintenance will remain public. that's the philosophy and the outline of this fourth package. we will open the market from 2019, which is why some remarks, such as that made by mr d'amato, are, let us say, out of place, because reciprocity would have been in place during a transitional period, but since we have decided to open from 2019, until 2019 everyone behaves as he has decided to behave. then as regards mr bilbao, who has kindly and diligently followed the whole debate, we have discussed the question of unbundling - because your criticism, the criticism of the liberal democrats is on this aspect - but the economic incompatibility was really very great. and so what we have done is we have given powers to the national regulators and the novelty of the fourth package compared to the previous ones is precisely the power of the national regulators, their centrality in the system and this should make you say that it is a step forward, it is certainly not a step back or to stand still, as mr riquet knows very well who has followed all our work also with great competence, availability and with great experience. i would like to say, mr president, and i would like to thank everyone who has spoken, really, because we have a great opportunity, and i apologize for the time taken. we have the possibility for our companies in a european market to give jobs, to give jobs, not to take jobs away, because we need to make sure that our companies participate in a larger market, because our companies, even the strongest, in their domestic and national markets can no longer do it. that is why this reform is important and why it opens up great possibilities for the european railway sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the adoption of this regulation by the plenary is a milestone that is not to be taken for granted. as we know, previous attempts to approve the proposal have failed, which is a sign that this is a very complex and delicate matter which requires great care and caution. the 1 200 european seaports handle more than 70% of imported and exported goods and account for almost 40% of intra-eu trade. that is why the vote in favour of the agreement reached, the result of our parliamentary work with the contribution of all the stakeholders, is all the more important. i thank the rapporteur for his determination and for his acceptance of my request for greater transparency in the customs services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port infrastructure is properly managed. i also believe that the choice of legislation for the regulation was decisive, because to have a real impact it is necessary to have the same rules for all member states, which are immediately applicable, and it is necessary to have a certain flexibility in order to achieve the goal commensurate with the needs of the individual port. these factors of financial transparency, liberalisation of services and incentives to competitiveness will enable maritime transport to grow, to the benefit not only of trade but also of its sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with more than 1 200 ports in europe, port activities represent 3 million jobs. 96% of goods and 93% of passengers transit through 319 ports on the ten-t network. the proposal for a regulation by mr fleckenstein is in this context, albeit somewhat lighter than the commission's initial objectives. we do not support the full liberalisation of port services, given the inevitable negative consequences on such a heterogeneous sector in europe, but the regulation is nevertheless a step forward. collective actions shall not be considered as interruptions of services justifying emergency measures; the right to strike and minimum services are both protected. the reference to the 2001 directive reiterates the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of an undertaking, as well as the obligations of the transferor and the transferee. the right to training and the provision of minimum professional requirements guarantee the safety and proper performance of services. finally, transparency on the use of public funds, achieved by a clear separation in budgets between public and private funds, will make it possible to trace the use of taxpayers' money and understand the activities for which it is used.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the new regulation on access to the market for port services will make european ports more efficient and provide fair competition in a sector which employs three million people in europe. the strengthening of the competitiveness of ports will create the conditions for promoting short sea shipping as an alternative to road transport, with a consequent reduction in user costs. the introduction of general rules for greater financial transparency of ports, legislation which has so far been required of individual member states, is important. the reform will make the costs of port services and infrastructure more transparent, especially in the financial relations between the state, ports and operators. it should be noted that there are some important derogations, such as for drainage services, and some flexibility, such as for piloting services, but the introduction of greater transparency, regulatory simplification, market opening and internationalisation in an intermodal european framework within the ten-t can really be a driver for the recovery and economic growth of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached a final vote on this matter after years of negotiations. the troubled path of this proposal arises from the conflict between two very broad interests: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the strenuous negotiating effort was, as far as i am concerned, aimed at this. we therefore welcome the limit of 800 metres below which no trawling can take place, and the limit of 400 metres in the case of areas with particularly sensitive ecosystems. these are largely unexplored and poorly understood environments, ecosystems yet to be understood that we know to be very fragile and fragile: and that's why we have to be very careful about treating them as a resource to be exploited. we should never use the precautionary principle more than in this case, and i am not just talking about fishing. we think that in this case, thanks to the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, a good compromise has been reached and we will therefore support this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mrs isabelle thomas, on her successful handling of a very difficult matter. the main objective was to protect, through sustainable fishing, a particularly fragile habitat where fish stocks are depleted and where species are present that reproduce very slowly. the new rules include a ban on trawling below 800 metres and a limit of 400 metres in the most vulnerable marine environments. fishermen will also have to report the number of sponges and corals caught, as they will be required to move to other fishing areas when a certain quantity is reached. finally, new transparency rules have been introduced, including the obligation to make public the information collected and not only: 20% of vessels will be required to have an observer on board to enable scientific data to be collected. the new rules will apply mainly to vessels operating in the north-east atlantic. it is true that we can always do better, but after more than four years of work we have finally struck the right balance between the needs of fishermen and the need to safeguard marine habitats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is essential to ensure, as far as possible, the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea stocks, reducing the environmental impact and implementing the information base necessary for scientific evaluation. it is essential to set a bathymetric limit in order to better protect the vulnerable marine ecosystems of the seabed, just as i think it is necessary to introduce strict transparency rules, rules, for example, which may include the obligation to take on board scientific observers and to record catches. another key measure concerns the collection of data and, in particular, the obligation for member states to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems and on european vessels fishing in deep waters, information which should enable the european commission to assess and, accordingly, adjust the fishing zones authorised: it is better to have this evaluation annually. the agreement reached can therefore ensure conditions to avoid negative impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems and to establish better conditions for more effective data collection. i congratulate mrs thomas on her excellent work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr nagy for the work he has done and for the space he has given to the rights of children in his report. in 2015, in fact, in the european union, numerous events shook our consciences, showing that fundamental rights are trampled on and human dignity is mortified, and this also with regard to minors, whose rights should, on the contrary, always be protected. we have repeatedly stressed in this house that reception policies in the field of migration must always take account of the principle of the best interests of the child and we have stressed in particular that foreign minors cannot be subjected to any form of detention linked to their migrant status, as has unfortunately happened in some member states. it is necessary to protect minors who are alone in the territory of the union: the lack of adequate protection in reception facilities often leads to a large number of children, more than ten thousand according to europol data, leaving the country, exposing them to serious risks such as recruitment into criminal groups, sexual exploitation and exploitation by human traffickers. but more generally, poverty, lack of access to education, marginalization, exposure of children to violence against women in the family, which is extremely traumatic for children, are just some of the serious violations of children's rights that are unfortunately still perpetrated in europe. the union must act on all this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we have seen an increase in hate speech and an increase in xenophobia and other forms of prejudice in important sectors of society. the migration emergency, the arrival of large numbers of asylum seekers and immigrants, but also terrorist attacks, have accentuated racist and xenophobic hate and discrimination. the call for help has been met, in some cases, by the erection of barbed wire walls, but europe has also shown great solidarity and a capacity for acceptance. the situation remains difficult, however, and requires an effort on the part of the european union to reiterate that we are a community based on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the member states of the european union should complement their efforts with proactive policy initiatives, developing plans specifically aimed at promoting and raising awareness of rights.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr ehler for his excellent cooperation, the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the two committees. the report which is being put to the vote in parliament is not a mere npi, but a proposal for a work programme for an industrial sector which must become strategic. it is no accident that it has aroused great interest and anticipation. we've reached a turning point. the era of siloed policies is over: culture, industry and creativity can and must be the pillars on which to plan a new coherent and long-term industrial policy for the cultural and creative industries, as they create a bridge between art, culture, creativity, quality production and economic and social development. and not only that: the project will also support the development of the following areas: the figures are well known, mr ehler has just mentioned them, but i would add that young people between the ages of 15 and 29 are employed in more sectors than any other, that these sectors have withstood the economic crisis better and, of course, that they are also 95% small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises. the numbers are important, and the studies confirm it, but if you want empirical confirmation, just look around. culture, art, creativity and beauty are the face of europe in the world, their specificity stems from europe's roots, the uniqueness of european culture and the arts, three thousand years of history and a shared cultural heritage. given that they will be even more crucial in the 21st century, it should be stressed that they are characterised by their inherent dual value: on the one hand, play an essential role in preserving europe's cultural and linguistic diversity and in strengthening the sense of belonging to the common european identity; they are the vehicles through which to contribute to the transmission of knowledge and values and, at the same time, to safeguard the tangible and intangible heritage for present and future generations. they are also a real instrument for social cohesion, as they make an important contribution to the european union's economy in terms of employment, investment, growth, innovation and competitiveness on the world stage. if we are to respond positively to the dramatic scourge of unemployment, especially among young people, the development, promotion, financing and protection of these industries must be included in the union's strategic objectives, starting with education and training. disciplines such as art, music, theatre, cinema, knowledge of cultural heritage, artistic expression practices, the development of school-work pathways, increased intra-eu student mobility, centres of excellence should be strengthened in school curricula and study programmes. policies are also needed to safeguard and promote traditional european know-how and artisan crafts, and to strengthen the training of highly skilled workers through awareness campaigns on career and employment opportunities in this industry and the need for a match between demand and supply of work. it is obviously not possible to imagine all this happening without adequate funding: synergies between european programmes and funding should be developed as a matter of urgency, such as the full use of the creative europe guarantee facility, including in combination with the european fund for strategic investments. in the future, the cultural and creative industries will need to be considered as a horizontal strategic priority in the new financial framework and the architecture of the new programmes after 2020. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial instruments. most of these industries are small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, and their wealth lies in their creations: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's intellectual property rights are not used as collateral for investment loans. this must be done either by means of protocols for the evaluation of the real value of these rights or by means of a more in-depth knowledge of the sector by the banking system, which is currently inadequate. i conclude: it is necessary to make a qualitative leap and to become aware of the fundamental role of the cultural and creative industries in the reindustrialisation of europe and to encourage policies in support of our most precious asset, which is our european culture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am very pleased with this report which we have been very keen to see in the committee on culture and in the committee on industry. i would like to thank mr morgano and mr ehler for the excellent work they have done. what would europe be without art, music, publishing, museums, architecture, design, crafts, cinema and fashion? it simply would not be europe. i think that this is the deepest meaning of this initiative, of this important report, that after programmes such as creative europe and after the policies that have been made in certain areas, we really ask that there finally be a coherent and effective european strategy for the cultural and creative industries, which together enhance the cultural heritage, represent european identity and diversity and are also the most recognizable wealth of our continent, creating a bridge between art, culture, economic activity, talent and technology. as has been said, this sector generates social and economic value, and is based on knowledge and creativity, two intangible assets which must be protected and enhanced by copyright and intellectual property, but which must also be protected through training, skills innovation and creative clusters. i would like to conclude by saying that it is very important that there should be an integrated strategy for resources in this area and that the european fund for strategic investments should also take note of this sector.
in writing. i have often said that the european union must put culture at the heart of its foreign policy. focusing on cultural cooperation with its internal and external partners helps to enhance the union's image and to promote a world order based on peace, respect for human rights and mutual understanding. in this context, ccis are a useful link in the strategy for international cultural relations between the constantly evolving ict environment and the enhancement of a stronger european consciousness, creating a sense of belonging and mutual understanding among citizens of the various member states. it should be noted that ccis have the potential to create wealth and jobs with a turnover of over 500 billion and with over 7 million employees. this potential must be developed and not degraded. they create stability and development. the legal framework for copyright and intellectual property must be coherent and harmonised, with measures to stimulate the use of new technologies, which are strategic objectives for promoting the fundamental european values.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress made by the eastern partnership countries, there are still deep-seated criticisms in the field of equal rights for men and women. prolonged conflict is hampering the development of the region, with profound effects on people's lives and human rights. one of the most thorny issues is the scourge of trafficking, involving thousands of women from eastern europe, lured by the illusion of gainful employment and taken into prostitution by criminal organizations. there is also the difficult situation of roma women, who find it difficult to react to violence, discrimination and coercion. the participation of women in political life is weak. the eastern partnership countries need to do more to curb all forms of violence against women, and deep institutional changes are needed. in this regard, the efforts of the euronest parliamentary assembly in promoting the political participation and visibility of women in the eastern partnership countries are welcome.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a recent oecd study has ruthlessly pushed italy back to 34th and penultimate place in the special ranking for training skills. the worrying fact for italy is the unbridgeable gap between the north and the south. students from bolzano, trento and lombardy score up to 35 points above average in science; in campania, unfortunately, the 35 points are negative, below average. this paints an actual school delay of almost two years. although the member states are responsible for their own education and training systems, the european union has a supporting role, sets common objectives and promotes the exchange of good practice. i therefore ask the commission not to leave any pupils on the street, to take account of the evidence in the monitoring report on education and training and to present measures to make education systems more relevant, particularly in the member states below the average. we must ensure that young people receive an education which will enable them to find satisfactory employment and develop their professional careers: education is perhaps the only way to escape a degraded environment.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, five hundred, six hundred... that 600 euros, ladies and gentlemen, is effectively buried on page 12 of the second annex to the communication on clean energy for all. it is true that inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, i quote, are in the main text, but as the penultimate argument of the penultimate paragraph, en passant, and without quantification. we almost missed them. i refer to the figures from the international monetary fund and to the direct and indirect subsidies in the eu to fossil fuels, in the year of our lord 2015, amounting to three hundred billion euros per year, a figure which you yourself have quoted, and i am sure that you have given your authoritative endorsement. what's the count? yes, we are 500 million citizens, and i do not know for how long, but the annual per capita allowance for children and the elderly is therefore equal to 600 euros. in the face of this scandal everything else pales, it is a shame, a shame five hundred million times over. i genuinely appreciate the work of those who have written over four thousand pages of professional, accurate and interlinked documents, but there is one capital thing missing: the dirty and deadly fossil energy, climatically, health and geopolitically, should not be subsidized any more than what you call clean energy: i find it immoral, obscene and anachronistic, in fact suicidal. stability, balance of payments, denial of the real conditions and laws that govern the planet, life, the universe. climate stability, circularity, thermodynamic balance, the only rules as certain and eternal as death, to which we must respond. so for the sake of justice and science, if you don't want to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies, at least put them on the plate, print at least 300 billion green money a year, real green energy money. enough with the mocking of the ragged libertarian, let's put order in the common house. it's the economy!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before i get into the substance of the matter, i would like to thank the commission and the commissioners for this great effort of legislative proposal. it is a commitment that has come a long way, announced a few months ago and that we have been following very closely as a group ever since, and which today, in time, is becoming an articulated proposal for the government of the energy challenges. in this spirit, and therefore with a positive eye, i have examined the package, and i fully understand the general direction proposed: the commission's proposal is to open up energy markets to the challenges of modernity, to monitor and manage the profound changes already under way, and to focus on clean energy at competitive costs. it is still too early, i think, to grasp all the implications of this package, and i agree with what mr van brempt has said on this point, but some aspects are already clear to me: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. on the other hand, the package also gives us another message, which we cannot underestimate: the commission proposes a path of decarbonisation that is too gradual, we have to invent new systems to accelerate this process. the work of these months and years has been the work of the gróbarczyk, griffin, langen and others reports, and they tell us that more advanced balances can be achieved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to do something good in these luxurious buildings, which, i recall, cost 166 billion euros a year, we need to do one simple thing, which is to listen and do what our people ask us to do. and with this logic of listening to act, i have been presenting the energy package to families, businesses, young people, the elderly, and during this listening phase, what emerges? the need to reduce energy costs. the cry of pain of many families who cannot afford a basic necessity, namely the use of energy, the cry of pain that also comes from citizens who present me with bills of one hundred euros a month just to afford the light, that is, electricity. it is crazy that it costs our households 100 euros a month, 25 euros to produce electricity, 25 euros to transport it and 50 euros are additional costs and burdens. if we think that italy has gone to the madness of including the rai fee, let us add this. i conclude by saying that we must fight hard to prevent the inclusion of additional costs in electricity bills.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as your communication says, the cheapest energy is the energy we do not consume. the key to this apparent paradox is energy efficiency, which i consider to be an absolute priority alongside renewables. it is an opportunity for citizens, for the energy bill, for the improvement of the environment, for the health of citizens, yes, i mean clean air as you say, if i think about what is happening in some european cities, where the air is now unbreathable. and this is a great opportunity, a tremendous opportunity for industry as well, but we need to act in a collegial and integrated way. i therefore formally invite the commission to work more closely with the commissioners on industry, innovation and the budget, because energy efficiency means, first of all, support for research in the field of environmental technology, for housing, transport and industry itself. support new enterprises, start-ups that are born from these innovative projects; to have more flexible and smarter finance for these products, for their creation and distribution in the market; to prepare the necessary skills and professions. we are all aware that in europe, in this sector, europe could have strong competitive capacity and industrial leadership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals put forward are, on the whole, in line with the desire to achieve a transition to a sustainable system that combines low carbon emissions, security of supply, the active role of consumers, environmental benefits, public health and, it should be said, the competitiveness of our system. a fact: in 2015 alone, renewable energy attracted more than eur 300 billion of investment worldwide and stimulates new technologies in which europe enjoys a competitive advantage. while i welcome the priorities assigned to energy efficiency, i would like to stress the concern with regard to the measures planned for renewable energy. the target remains at 27%, and a number of pro-renewable measures are being eliminated, while we still have subsidies for fossil fuels, and in particular for coal. so, figuring out where we want to go and where we put our resources is a critical indicator of the way forward. i 'll make this clear: we cannot afford to be timid now, we must not only avoid not moving forward, but we must also avoid slowing down from what we have done so far.
in writing. the commission's proposal seems to put europe at the forefront of a transition process that can lead to a rapid break from dependence on fossil fuels. this is done by focusing on energy efficiency, renewables, research and innovation, connected and automated mobility, low impact, but also - and finally stated in clear letters - on the new role attributed to the citizen for self-production and self-consumption. there are still some concerns about the use of financial instruments which may prove to be too risky and i admit a strong disappointment at the poor support for fossil fuels. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the environment. but it will become even more so when not a penny of european money goes to supporting oil, coal and fossil fuels, or to financing the incineration of waste (or nuclear). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is important in many ways, since the corbett report regulates the democratic life of this institution, which is the home of the european citizens. i am speaking as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection about the contribution of the committee on the environment to this dossier. as you know, we in envi have a long and extensive legislative experience, we have had hundreds of trilogues and therefore we have intervened, on the basis of this experience, on the aspects relating to the second reading of parliament, finding an excellent rapport with the afco committee, with the rapporteur corbett, whom i thank for the long work done in these months. our intervention, contained in amendment no 88 to rule 73c, concerns the case where the council's position contains elements which are not covered by parliament's position at first reading: we have provided in this text that the committee responsible may adopt guidelines for the negotiating team. i would of course like to thank those who will support this amendment and i would ask them to approve the report as a whole.
the s&d group has been represented. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, real change is usually made in small steps, and the proposals for the revision of the rules of procedure by richard corbett and the whole working party which has worked with him and mr wieland over this long period are of this kind, they propose a series of ambitious changes which are necessary for our democracy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the keywords that make up the work produced by richard corbett and, as the afco coordinator of our s&d group, i agree with the aim of rationalising the activities of the chamber and a regulation of written statements, questions to the commission, for example, are necessary measures. i think it is time to put an end to this absurd competition between members to write more than others, and that is the direction in which this report and these amendments are moving. i ask you to vote in favour.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr corbett, and all the other members for the work they have done. we have spent almost two years revising what is the fundamental democratic act of this institution. i would have expected the reform of the rules of procedure to have been carried out through the widest possible debate and not through the usual consensus of the broadest possible consensus, which is a dead end for the democratic life of this parliament. there are too many unresolved issues: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also surreal that parliament should ask the commission for new rules to limit the conflicts of interest of commissioners and refuse to change its own. those who vote in favour of this reform will take full responsibility for the case, including in front of the citizens, explaining why they have decided to defend the privileges of the caste. we of the five star movement will always be here to remind you that to bring european citizens closer to the institutions, a radical change of course is needed, starting with ethics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must be aware of the importance of the report we are voting on today, because depending on the rules we adopt, a concept of democracy will emerge. in the name of efficiency and speed, these new rules restrict the individual rights of members, their ability to control, intervene and scrutinise legislative activity, as well as limiting the powers of minor groups, raising and creating new barriers. i believe that the freedom to be protected is first and foremost the freedom of those who think differently and i believe that this parliament has not learned the lesson of the italian referendum. the peoples of europe say no to those who see the parliamentary institutions only as a place of ratification of the executives or the great coalitions, that is, of the majority of this parliament which has written the austerity policies. we need more democracy, not less democracy, to open the windows of our parliament, to be able to listen to the questions of citizens and society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. first of all, i would like to point out that if we are having a debate here in the plenary, it is thanks to a minority group which has asked for a debate in the plenary, it is thanks to my group in this parliament, the gue/ngl group, which has asked for a debate in the plenary because, let us say, the majority of the european parliament did not foresee that there would be a parliamentary debate on such an important element, namely, what common rules we give ourselves to decide. i remember that we had difficulty in having parliamentary debates here: the european parliament has been denied the right to appeal to the european court of justice over ceta until a few weeks ago. what's the point? that the rules of the european parliament cannot be decided by a majority, the rules of the european parliament are democratic if they protect first of all the individual rights of members and the rights of minorities, which is something this report does not do at all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate mr corbett on his excellent work. the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament is based on the need to ensure a better functioning of parliament and to clarify the interpretation of certain rules, with particular attention to not restricting the scope of action of members. i fully agree with the rigorousness and transparency introduced, for example by requiring former members to inform parliament if they undertake new lobbying activities and by providing for the withdrawal of the access cards of registered lobbyists who do not comply with the rules of procedure. i believe that the introduction of the right of a committee to speed up a legislative procedure and the obligation for the committee to reply within three months to requests for initiatives from parliament and, if no reply is given, the obligation for the committee to appear before the committee responsible will make legislative work more efficient. finally, the provision that, in the event of the withdrawal of legislative proposals, the commission is obliged to discuss them first with the competent committee of the european parliament and then, in the absence of agreement, with the plenary.
in writing. during the work leading up to the text tabled in plenary, which introduces amendments to parliament's rules of procedure, the major groups did not adopt a collaborative attitude towards the smaller groups. the requests of the latter to have their rights in the various bodies and agencies safeguarded were not granted and, on the contrary, rules were inserted which restricted the autonomy of individual members and groups. in addition, the issue of transparency was completely ignored during the reform process, which should have been addressed in an ad hoc report that was blocked in committee, so that the amendments it introduced could not affect the revision of the current regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will do so.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
mr ferreira, are you asking the house to vote for or against your proposal, or is it merely an invitation? you want a vote? all right, then, we'll take the floor, please.
i am grateful to mr andersson for answering his question immediately, and then we shall vote on mr ferreira's proposal. as regards the president's decision to declare the amendment to which you refer inadmissible, it is a final decision because, under article 232 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, parliament has the power to establish its own rules of procedure on the basis of case law; this means that it can decide on its internal organisation and take appropriate measures to ensure the proper functioning and conduct of its procedures. in this context, parliament may regulate, in its rules of procedure, certain matters concerning its members where this is necessary to ensure the proper functioning and conduct of its proceedings. however, the rules of procedure cannot be used to regulate the activities of former members. hence the president's decision. as regards mr ferreira's proposal, i would like to know whether there are any members who wish to speak in favour of it, or against it. (parliament rejected the request for an update)
that concludes the voting.
in writing. ‒ the following report proposes to lay down certain technical and financial rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes. although the report is very general and does not indicate which specific programmes algeria will be able to participate in, i believe it is important to involve the geographically neighbouring countries in order to cooperate in order to encourage development and growth. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i find the panzeri report analysing the framework agreement between the european union and algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in the union's programmes unbalanced and not to be shared, and therefore did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in return for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the republic of algeria, in particular, is one of the few countries in north africa where the social and political system holds up despite the enormous problems it faces: an exceptional case of welcoming and tenacity that looks to the west and the development of the rule of law despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems, the difficult relationship with minorities and the jihadist militias still active in many areas of the country. europe as a whole can look to algeria as a friendly entity in a key area which we must support, ensuring its territorial integrity and political survival, and allowing it to stabilise under appropriate conditions and to gradually enter the area of joint cooperation and joint management of the middle east crisis.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation in question, which sets out the conditions for cooperation between the european union and algeria in the political, economic, social and cultural fields. i think that respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights is an essential element of this agreement. furthermore, i believe that the eu-algeria agreement should promote: regular dialogue on political and security matters; economic, commercial and financial cooperation, aimed in particular at the progressive liberalisation of trade, sustainable development of the mediterranean region and investment; social, cultural and educational cooperation, in particular through intercultural dialogue, control of migration, skills development, promotion of labour law and equality between women and men. finally, i believe that this agreement can enable algeria, a partner country in the european neighbourhood policy, to participate in community programmes, and thus serve as a basis for the gradual liberalization of trade in the mediterranean area.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr panzeri sets out certain technical and financial rules which allow algeria to participate in certain european union programmes. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was drawn up in 2004 to avoid the emergence of economic and cultural rifts between the european union and its neighbouring states with the aim of promoting stability and security throughout the region. the resolution, for which i voted in favour, approves a euro-mediterranean framework agreement laying down the general principles for algeria's participation in the european union programmes under the european neighbourhood policy (enp). i think it is appropriate to give algeria access to financial assistance programmes but not only in order to reaffirm the european union's support for the country's delicate political and democratic transition. i am firmly convinced that a stable and democratic algeria can be a key ally in the fight against terrorism in north africa and an important trading partner for the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the agreement concerns algeria's participation in certain european programmes such as economic, financial and technical cooperation. the report does not go into the content of the programmes mentioned.
in writing. ‒ in the current dustbin of north african countries, i can only give my approval to the conclusion of the protocol, since algeria is the only successful case of the arab spring. there is no doubt that the former french colony is embarking on a path of reform in all areas of state, but in pursuing these objectives it is facing hostility, primarily from neighbouring countries and from extremist cells. in addition to external pressures, there are the difficulties encountered by a country which is beginning to adopt western systems of democracy and the rule of law. the commission will therefore be able to provide financial assistance for the implementation of the union's programmes, which are aimed in particular at the progressive liberalization of trade, the sustainable development of the region and investment. in addition, there is a regular dialogue on political and security matters to promote mutual understanding, cooperation and joint initiatives, as well as social, cultural and educational cooperation, in particular through intercultural dialogue, migration control, skills development, the promotion of labour law or gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that algeria's participation in eu programmes is an important measure to promote the reform and modernisation of this country within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the conclusion of the eu-algeria memorandum of understanding. the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and algeria on the participation of algeria in community programmes under the european neighbourhood policy. i believe that the conclusion of this protocol represents not only an important opportunity for economic, financial and technical cooperation between the eu and algeria, but also a strengthening of the euro-mediterranean partnership framework.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it represents a potential danger to the italian economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and algeria on the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in union programmes, because i believe that algeria is a key country for maintaining peace and stability in the north african region. this is an important decision and i invite the commission and the algerian authorities to define together the specific terms and conditions for the participation of algeria in each of the union's programmes, on the basis of the criteria laid down in the programmes concerned and on the basis of conditions which are the same for all member states. participation in community programmes is a bridge to europe, enabling civil society, young students, researchers and workers, the business system and humanitarian organisations to make a leap forward towards democratic and liberal development, which i consider to be the main weapon against religious fundamentalism and extremism. the eu should take action to support democracy and the rule of law in algeria.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this protocol is the positive conclusion of a process of continuous dialogue, supported also by the crucial contribution of the members of the two parliaments, and for whose adoption i voted in favour. the political dialogue is open to many perspectives and today's framework agreement is further confirmation of this. the rule of law and the role of civil society will only improve and foster better euro-mediterranean and regional relations, without taking into account good governance practices that can mutually benefit from exchanges in sectoral programmes. it is a strategic cooperation with economic and political foundations, but which is aimed at promoting regional stability and security, paving the way and laying the foundations for increased coordination also on more complex issues such as migration and mobility or security policies and the fight against terrorism, with an eye always turned to development. finally, public diplomacy and cultural diplomacy are fertile fields in which much can still be done, among the many measures of the european neighbourhood policy with algeria as well as with the other euro-mediterranean partners.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal under consideration concerns the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. opening up certain eu programmes or agencies to the participation of neighbourhood partner countries is a further step in promoting reform, modernisation and transition in the area surrounding the eu. in 2007, directives were issued to negotiate framework agreements with several countries, including algeria. the latter expressed its interest in 2013 to participate in several programmes that have been opened to the partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in union programmes is intended to pursue objectives previously set both by the council and by the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, which establishes an association between the member states of the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria, encouraging the development of beneficial and growing cooperation between the countries which are members of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the community and its member states, of the one part, and the algerian republic, of the other part, should be concluded. the aim of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes and it is part of the more ambitious objective of building strong economic, political, strategic and cultural relations with a number of mediterranean countries in accordance with the logic of the european neighbourhood policy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that the debate on deep sea has been going on for a long time, the vote has only just taken place. the dossier proposes lowering the limit within which trawling can be practised, intensifying controls on board vessels and increasing transparency regulations. it is very important that the institutions commit themselves to protecting and preserving our seas, and i therefore voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ technological development has radically changed the methods and forms of fishing, an activity which today can involve areas that were unthinkable just a few years ago and have a strong impact on the environment and biodiversity. the thomas report, which i have supported today, sets out specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic to protect particularly vulnerable marine ecosystems, characterised by long-lived species, slow growth and very long reproductive periods. with this in mind, member states will be asked to provide data on the location of vulnerable ecosystems, which the commission will then have to assess in order to define the fishing zones authorised. the report focuses on transparency and data collection, the obligation to have scientific observers on board vessels and the recording of catches. several penalties are established and a new bathymetric limit of 800 metres is set. deep-sea fishing shall be authorised only in the area exploited by the vessels in the period 2009-2011.
in writing. ‒ the measure is very technical and although it may be generally acceptable, it contains some requirements that could open up future criticisms in the implementation phase. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. it is essential to ensure the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea stocks by reducing the environmental impact of deep-sea fishing and to improve the information base necessary for scientific evaluation. the regulation we have adopted is going in that direction. the european union will freeze the fishing footprint by defining the area in which deep-sea fishing activities will be allowed. that area includes that in which directed fisheries were carried out between 2009 and 2011 in european waters of the north-west atlantic. in addition, specific sanctions have been introduced for vessels that violate the deep-sea fisheries regulation and no derogations have been made for the control rules.
in writing. ‒ the text, which is being adopted at second reading after three years of negotiations, contains important and positive elements. these include a ban on trawling below 800 metres (up to 400 metres in areas with particularly sensitive ecosystems), increased controls and environmental protection, and stricter transparency rules. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ deep-sea ecosystems and species are highly vulnerable to fishing and increasingly at risk: deep-sea species are characterised by low biological productivity, which means that they can only support low levels of exploitation. there are clear european obligations for the protection of these species and for the protection of the seabed, obligations which the member states are called upon to respect strictly. the report, for which i think i am voting in favour, has the merit of introducing specific sanctions for vessels which violate the regulation on deep-sea fishing and of having laid down new provisions with a view to better protecting the seabed. i believe that the new rules for the recording of all deep-sea catches can be a guarantee of transparency in fishing vessel operations and that the involvement of scientific observers on board can not only ensure a profitable collection of scientific data but also strengthen the link between research and fishing enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of a new regulation as it is all the more necessary to put in place effective measures to address the vulnerability of stocks and to establish a sustainable level of fishing that protects habitats and reduces unwanted by-catches throughout the north-east atlantic. in particular, i fully support the introduction of an absolute ban on fishing beyond the 800 metre limit because deep-sea fishing involves the scraping of the seabed. it is also aimed primarily at slow-growing and highly vulnerable fish species, and i hope that this provision will prove decisive. i also welcome the introduction of the obligation to publish information for deep-sea fishing vessels, i.e. those vessels whose deep-sea fishing activity represents more than 8% of their total catches on at least one trip during the year. it is therefore essential not only to establish a catch register but also to commit member states to geographically delimiting the areas where deep-sea fishing is permitted and to provide data and impact studies on the vulnerability of the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure, as the main purpose of the proposal is to establish specific conditions for fishing for stocks in the deep waters of the north-east atlantic and to regulate fishing in the international waters of the north-east atlantic through specific provisions. this new provision will help protect vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems, ensure more sustainable fisheries and reduce unwanted catches.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets clear and stringent limits to limit the damage of trawling by prohibiting it below 800 metres deep, a limit which rises to 400 metres in the case of areas with particularly sensitive ecosystems. the protection of marine environments, because of their fragility and sensitivity, is of particular importance, especially for environments that are still poorly understood, such as the seabed and deep water.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this compromise solution because i am concerned that the european parliament's intervention should not be to the detriment of those who work in this sector and those who benefit from and live from the fisheries industry, especially small-scale fishing. as i have said many times, together with the trade associations, we must try to find solutions that are less burdensome for the operators, such as the remodulation of fishing gear, spatial-temporal closures and traceability systems. applying the principles of the blue economy to our actions goes hand in hand with countering the illegal practices of those who take vital resources from our seas. the depletion of the wealth of our seas and the limitation of marine resources must not always and necessarily result in limitations without taking account of the economic nature of the sector, on which many families depend. the protection of marine resources is not incompatible with these priorities.
in writing. with this agreement, the eu defines the area where deep-sea fishing activities will be allowed. the demarcated area provides for the application of a bathymetric limit, such as 800 metres, to vessels fishing directly for deep-sea species, or at least one fishing trip during the year, with the aim of better protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems of the seabed. the ep also called for the introduction of specific sanctions for vessels that violate the rules on deep-sea fishing. it has been provided that above 400 metres and in case of catches in vulnerable ecosystems, fishing vessels engaged in deep-sea fishing activities will have to cease their activities and move at least 5 miles away from the catch zone of the ecosystem. the ep therefore called for the introduction of strict transparency rules, including the obligation to provide data on deep-sea fishing vessels and the obligation for member states to provide all data relevant to the location of these vulnerable ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation of my colleague concerning the adoption of the regulation establishing specific conditions for fishing and deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters in the north-east atlantic area, because, while i share the principle of safeguarding the marine ecosystem, with particular reference to the most vulnerable species, i believe that the introduction of stricter rules in the regulation itself could have a negative socioeconomic impact. i am thinking of the ban on all deep-sea dredging, including exploratory dredging, over 800 metres, which has no scientific basis, and the difficulty of explaining to a bona fide operator in the sector that this formerly legal activity is now unworkable; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i appreciate the progress made in the drafting of the new regulation, but i think that more flexibility is needed. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ deep-sea stocks and marine ecosystems have unique characteristics that make them particularly vulnerable to human activities. many species are slow-growing, long-lived, and late reproducers. the new regulation will introduce a number of specific measures to ensure sustainable deep-sea fishing and to prevent damage to the seabed and its life forms, such as cold-water coral reefs, sponge gardens and seamount ecosystems. a ban on trawling at depths of more than 800 metres or more than 400 metres in the presence of a vulnerable marine ecosystem will be introduced, and a 'geographical footprint' will be defined so that fishing vessels can only fish in areas already affected by fishing activities. finally, some control measures such as the presence of observers on board will help to ensure compliance with the rules. i have decided to vote in favour of this regulation because the new proposal strikes the right balance between protecting the environment and responsible management of this fishery.
thank you, mr corbett, and congratulations on your success.
in writing. ‒ the richard corbett report is about reforming the european parliament's rules of procedure. the whole procedure was longer and more complicated than usual, just think that the working group in charge has been working on this dossier for a year and a half. i have always felt that the rules of procedure of the european parliament should be changed, particularly as regards the rules on transparency. i myself have always fought to make the institutions of glass buildings such that citizens can follow with complete confidence what is going on inside. we should be the ones to make this happen. unfortunately, the reality is quite different and this report is a testament to that. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ throughout its history, the european parliament has carried out several periodic revisions of its rules of procedure in order to adapt its internal working arrangements to changes in the institutional and political system. the corbett report, which i supported with my vote today, is the result of 18 months of collective work, the aim of which was to draw up a general revision of the regulation to meet the new needs of the institution and to optimise the use of internal resources. the text, which is highly articulated and technical in nature, introduces important innovations aimed at making parliament even more transparent and efficient, strengthening its institutional image and its capacity to listen to the citizens. the following measures are to be taken: increased penalties for members who use defamatory, xenophobic and racist language; the drawing up of more detailed and regular declarations of members' financial interests; the commission has also proposed a strengthening of the code of conduct and an explicit ban on members working as paid lobbyists. written questions, motions for resolutions and calls for a rollcall vote are also more limited. the regulation will enter into force on 16 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree with the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, because they severely restrict the work of us members of the smaller groups. as i feared, the strong pressure exerted by the big groups has prevailed and this text represents a missed opportunity: instead of improving the parliamentary system so that all the representatives of the people can make their voices heard, this text penalizes our work in opposing the crazy policies of brussels. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has periodically revised its rules of procedure, often following the adoption of new treaties that have strengthened its powers. improving the efficiency of parliament's work, devoting periodically some sittings to topical debates of great interest to european union policy, allowing each political group to request at least one debate a year, and involving the femm committee more closely in matters relating to gender equality are all elements that will make our institution more active, closer to the citizens and more useful to europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure because it introduces rules which will make the parliamentary institution more democratic, more transparent and more efficient. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report also offers important improvements in terms of efficiency and participation. for example, the plenary will always have a say in authorising or refusing the opening of negotiations with the other institutions in order to reach agreements at first reading. rules were then introduced to tighten sanctions against members who make inappropriate statements or attempt to disrupt parliamentary activity. in the event of serious misconduct, a member may be banned from representing parliament abroad (for example, in external delegations or interinstitutional meetings) for up to one year.
in writing. ‒ the amendments do not take into account the need to give adequate representation and autonomy to small groups and the text is also very lacking in transparency. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i vote against it. the proposal to revise the regulation further penalises small political groups and restricts all kinds of opposition activities.
in writing. ‒ few totems can match the revision of the regulation in terms of complexity and regulatory acumen, as well as diplomatic skill in dealing with colleagues, but i express my support and full confidence in the result achieved. firstly, the freedom and independence of members is reaffirmed. i have particularly shared some of the amendments, and one of them is the simplification of the ordinary legislative procedure, since parliament will first vote on any proposal for an immediate report on the draft legislative act submitted in writing. if this is accepted, the project will be abandoned, otherwise the procedure will be declared closed. as regards the bureaucratic simplifications, i appreciate the ease with which the commission's work programme has been drawn up. the latter, which is the result of cooperation between parliament and the commission as provided for in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, is then analysed by the council and sets out the main objectives and priorities of the institutions. in addition, the documentation reflecting the outcome of the trilogies will be made public. in addition to these facilities designed to speed up the whole eu decision-making process, there are limitations in the submission of written questions, a tool which some colleagues tend to abuse for purely statistical purposes. i hope that such a review will provide more timely and effective answers to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament as i agree with the amendments proposed by the afco committee, which include the simplification of the voting thresholds in plenary and in committee, the composition of committees and delegations, the simplification of the procedure for electing the bureau, as well as a number of other measures concerning the functioning of parliament.
in writing. ‒ today's vote approved the reform of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which aims to improve the functioning and ensure greater rationalisation of the work of the only european institution directly elected by its citizens. the changes that have been made and which i have strongly supported are reasonable and balanced. i am convinced that these changes will help to make parliament's work not only more efficient and transparent but also more resistant to possible interference by anti-european political groups, which often try to prevent the smooth running of the work. the new regulation, which will enter into force as early as january 2017, will no longer tolerate any discriminatory or racist language or conduct that undermines the credibility of the european institutions. in addition, specific provisions will be made to avoid conflicts of interest or opaque and unclear relations between members and lobbies. this was achieved thanks to the political commitment and the will of the socialist and democratic group.
in writing. the revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which is both desirable and disappointing in its final outcome, is yet another example of the concentration of power and rule in the hands of the large political groups with the usual agreement of the broad public at the expense of minorities. the possibilities for expression and intervention by smaller political groups and individual members are reduced, there is no update of the code of conduct and the rules on conflict of interest, no formal recognition of the d'hondt method which will continue to be used in an instrumental way for the use and consumption of the large political groups, as has happened in a number of cases during these two and a half years of the legislature. finally, the demands of citizens for greater transparency are completely ignored, further fuelling the enormous distance that separates them from the institutions and feeds the sense of mistrust. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, as it clarifies and simplifies a number of rules in an appropriate way, in particular as regards the subsidiarity clause and the election of the president of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it penalizes small groups and severely restricts all kinds of opposition activities.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on constitutional affairs for the impressive drafting and negotiating work that led to the adoption of parliament's new rules of procedure. we are now equipped with a tool which will enable us to respond better to the political challenges of the union and to make our legislative process more effective and democratic.
in writing. ‒ after two years of hard work, parliament has succeeded in reforming its rules of procedure by a large majority. the reform is a major step towards clarifying the existing rules and allows for greater transparency within parliament. i have supported this report not only because i believe it is a positive step towards making parliament's work more effective, but also because it sends a clear signal from parliament to those members who use defamatory, racist and xenophobic language. the sanctions against members who use such language, thus compromising the proper conduct of parliament's business, have been strengthened in the most serious cases and doubled in the event of a repeat offence, with the loss of the right to represent parliament externally. parliament has today taken a step further by making it clear that the use of such language is incompatible with the exercise of public office.
in writing. the report for the vote concerns the rules of procedure of the european parliament. it achieves several objectives, such as simplifying the current thresholds in plenary and committee, the composition of committees whose members are appointed by the political groups, the composition of the members of interparliamentary delegations, the speeding up of the election of the ep's presidency, interinstitutional negotiations, voting procedures and the verification of compliance with the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and gender equality, among other points. i think that the proposal is clearly intended to simplify and make things more transparent, and to ensure that the ep functions better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the changes provided for in this proposal, which take into account the provisions of the 2016 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, aim at improving important apparatus for parliamentary procedures, such as it. this proposal for a decision may also prove useful in the pursuit of greater clarity and transparency in the rules of procedure of the european parliament and its members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the honourable member's proposal because the new regulation will make parliament's work more consistent and accountable, by establishing an organic and innovative body of rules. it is a question of fulfilling the duty of responsibility towards the citizens of the european union by supporting a reform which is the happy end to a long and painstaking work. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure will make it possible to see real improvements in the management of the daily work of our institution in the short term. significant changes will be made to clarify the powers, define the limits and scope of committees and individual members and increase the transparency of parliamentary activities. secondly, parliament's work will be able to proceed more rapidly, thanks to a more streamlined and punctual regulation. these changes will make it possible to respond in a timely manner to the challenges facing european society, with a renewed focus on the charter of fundamental rights. among the issues that need to be tackled most urgently are immigration through partnership with africa to manage the phenomenon, economic recovery and the fight against unemployment through, for example, the new digital agenda, the european fund for strategic investments, energy policy.
in writing. the new rules of procedure of the european parliament as they have been designed reduce the freedoms of meps. i would have expected that the reform of such an important document for the life of parliament would have been carried out by the widest possible debate and not by the usual agreement of the broadest possible understanding. instead, we are faced with a text which concentrates power in the hands of the large political groups and even limits the power of individual members to intervene. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the possibility of requesting so-called roll call votes, i.e. the publication of how individual members of parliament voted, is reduced. we in m5s are fighting for the institutions to respond to the citizens' demand for greater transparency. a radical change of course is needed to bring european citizens closer to the institutions. the commission has also proposed a change of course which should include new rules to limit the conflicts of interest of members themselves and to prevent them from concealing their votes. i therefore voted against this regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, which for thousands of people fleeing war and hunger represents a promised land of prosperity and civilization, is unfortunately still hiding many skeletons in the closet. we cannot deny that some member states are not exactly the champions of respect for human rights. this house has often been confronted with situations of violence within the union itself, and it is here that we have heard the cry of alarm from citizens who have been abused by their governments. as long as we have to convince some states that closing down television and newspapers, that erecting walls and shooting at borders has nothing to do with the principles on which the european union is founded, as long as all this is still on the agenda of the plenary, it will be necessary to monitor the human rights situation and make amends. it is not violence, repression and the denial of rights that are the support, the pillar of a project which has given us and still guarantees us, fortunately, more than sixty years of peace. and we should remind this to the many, many political movements that incite hatred and violence. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ contrary to the common opinion on fundamental rights, the institutions and some non-governmental organisations report that there are many violations of fundamental rights within the eu. i strongly believe that every citizen of the european union should have his or her rights respected, regardless of sex, religion, sexual orientation or race. the protection of rights also includes a highly topical issue such as migrants, for whom the european union needs to make a greater effort to ensure adequate protection. the importance of the subject and the way in which the report deals with some extremely topical and sensitive points have led me to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the protection of human rights is one of the principles on which the european union is founded, a constant objective guiding the action of the institutions which are committed each year to monitoring the level of respect for fundamental rights and the soundness of the rule of law in the continent. the nagy report, which i supported with my vote today, provides a comprehensive picture of the situation in the european union in 2015, highlighting the problems that have emerged in the various countries in these areas. the text focuses, among the many issues it touches upon, on two particularly sensitive issues, those of integration and immigration. there is a growing incitement to hatred against migrants and refugees, an alarming reality that is developing in a context of political parties and movements that are prone to exploit xenophobic impulses to increase their electoral support. the report also mentions a very worrying fact: at least 10 000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children went missing in the eu in 2015. the union and the member states must act as soon as possible with the existing tools to trace missing children. keeping migrant families together and registering and identifying children can help prevent their disappearance.
in writing. - i voted against this text which i consider to be biased. the report deals mainly with the rights of illegal aliens and lgbti people, without doing anything about the disastrous situation of the rights of european citizens, who are increasingly ignored and trampled. i will continue to fight against this wrong european union, which hides behind political correctness in order not to face reality. that reality shows how this union is the real cause of the deterioration of the living conditions of our people.
in writing. ‒ faced with today's challenges, the european union must ensure the protection of fundamental rights in all its actions, as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. that is why i welcome a report which draws attention to the various cases in which, during 2015, human rights have been relegated to the background, leaving room for discrimination and xenophobia. the migration crisis, as well as acts of terrorism in some member states, have exacerbated the manifestations of these phenomena, putting the most vulnerable at risk. so many member states have responded to calls for help by erecting walls. this report, which i support, calls for the inalienability of the fundamental principles on which the eu is founded, such as human rights, the rule of law and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a world leader in respecting, promoting and protecting human and civil rights. they are a pillar of european culture, not just of law, but also the fundamental building block of the eu's architecture and the guiding principle of its action in the world. the wide-ranging socioeconomic and political implications of this vision can be seen in all community legislation which protects individual rights, promotes the value of the individual and makes the plurality of languages, ideas, beliefs, opinions and customs a strength rather than a weakness of the great european common home. europe is one of the few places in the world that has been able to protect minorities and avoid forced recognition, while maintaining peace and diversity within its borders. however, we must be vigilant and always do our best to ensure that there are no exceptions or shortcomings in the implementation of our values. some states which have more recently embarked on the path of integration have within them prominent political formations which are indifferent, if not openly hostile, to the promotion and application of fundamental rights to all persons. the return of nationalism threatens many of the civil and social gains made in 70 years of walking together: we work to avoid falling into the shadows of the past.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 because incitement to hatred by certain political forces is increasing and sentiments such as xenophobia and other forms of prejudice are increasing in important sectors of the population. a situation accentuated by the migration emergency, but also by terrorist attacks. the situation remains difficult and requires an effort by the european union to reiterate that we are a community founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the european union needs to be more proactive in its policies, with plans specifically aimed at promoting rights and awareness.
in writing. ‒ this year's report refers to the parliament's legislative ini, which calls for the establishment of an eu strategy and mechanism for the protection of fundamental rights, without, as has been the case over the years, delving into institutional issues. we welcome the introduction of a paragraph on corruption, the protection of migrants and the need to prevent abuse of reception funds and their fundamental rights, as well as the part on the rights of minors.
in writing. ‒ the annual own-initiative report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union fails to address the critical issues of the socioeconomic model that this european union supports and represents. the report also explicitly attacks those who do not share the "politically correct" thinking on migrants and refugees. for these reasons, my vote is against.
in writing. ‒ as a primary european citizen, i welcome the report and confirm the full awareness that the union not only protects but also safeguards and guarantees human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. this is a matter of principle, but it requires a greater awareness on the part of europeans, which, in my view, can only be achieved by raising awareness of the deep sense of dignity from the beginning to the end of life. it is also necessary to strike a fair balance between the rights of the individual and the interests and duties of the community. strengthening social inclusion and integration mechanisms is therefore a dynamic and multidimensional challenge that can be achieved through better access to basic education, in order to allow the emergence of a more humane and open society, while remaining firm in its values. the development of a conscious citizenship will help to ensure that fundamental values are upheld and, consequently, that the gaps in freedom and security are closed. the most serious shortcomings today are found in the prison situation, in human trafficking, but more worryingly in child poverty which increases the vicious circle of social disadvantage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which deals with important issues on fundamental rights in the european union, including the protection of human rights, social integration and inclusion, trafficking in human beings, violence against women and children's rights.
in writing. ‒ in addressing current challenges, the eu and its member states should act in full accordance with the fundamental principles and values enshrined in the treaties. the european union is a community founded on the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. respect for these values must go hand in hand with external action, not eu action. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls that, both in dealing with internal crises and in relations with the rest of the world, the union must contribute to the protection of fundamental rights. in particular, i am thinking of issues that are essential to the lives of citizens, such as freedom of information, anti-corruption and anti-terrorism strategies, interreligious and intercultural dialogue and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that fundamental rights and civil liberties are important for social well-being and political and economic progress. i am against all forms of discrimination against sex, religion, gender and disability and i believe in a tolerant and free society.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes up some of the views of the committee on petitions, to which i contributed as a shadow rapporteur. the cynical and continuous application at eu and national level of austerity measures, still adopted as the economic approach of reference, prevents effective institutional responses from being provided. eight years after the start of the economic crisis, we continue to see rising levels of poverty, exponential rates of unemployment and precariousness, with very high peaks among young people in the countries most affected. this results in the impossibility of enjoying a truly free and dignified existence and in the violation of fundamental rights, such as access to health care, the protection of the rights of minors, the disabled, migrants and asylum seekers. the text makes clear reference to the responsibility of austerity policies. i hope that this awareness will soon lead to a decisive change of course.
in writing. i welcome the report on the situation of fundamental rights for 2015, in particular the introduction of a paragraph on corruption, on the protection of migrants, on the need to prevent abuse of reception funds. the report's section on children's rights is equally acceptable.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it does not once again denounce the socioeconomic model of this european union, which is the real cause of the deterioration of fundamental rights. the negative vote was furthered by the excessive number of paragraphs devoted to lgbti people.
in writing. ‒ in the context of this plenary session, the european parliament officially awarded the 2016 sakharov prize for freedom of thought to nadia murad and lamiya aji bashar, two yazidi survivors of sexual slavery by isis. the horror of the two women's words and looks has highlighted how the commitment to safeguard human rights in the world must be a top priority for europe and for each of us. in approving this report, we reaffirm our rejection of and opposition to all forms of discrimination, all forms of violence against the most vulnerable, all forms of physical, mental and sexual mortification. we deplore the atrocities that result from any lack of respect for human rights and dignity. as s&d members in particular, we will continue to promote equality and social inclusion as inalienable rights of every human being.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's annual report on fundamental rights in the eu 2015 addresses key challenges in the field of human rights, and this year in particular in the areas of migration, child protection and hate speech. in this report we have stated the need for member states to intensify their efforts to promote european values, tolerance and a sense of community without any stigmatisation of minorities. we called on member states to refrain from inciting fear and hatred of migrants and asylum seekers among their citizens for political gain, and instead to carry out positive campaigns to encourage a better approach to integration by citizens. concerned about the increasing levels of hate speech by some political parties, media and institutions, we also called on the european union to set an example in combating hate speech within its institutions. i am glad that parliament has already supplemented this recommendation by reforming its rules of procedure. these are issues which are very close to my heart and which i have fought for for a long time and which is why i have welcomed this report and supported it in the house.
in writing. the european union was founded on the principles of freedom, equality and democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. despite the charter of fundamental rights being integrated into the eu treaties, there are still some situations of rights violations in some member states. parliament called for measures to be taken to protect fundamental rights and human dignity, the rule of law, social integration and inclusion, freedom and security, the rights of minors, minorities, disabled people and the elderly, and for a focus on combating discrimination, xenophobia, hate crime and incitement to hatred and violence against women. with the eu's goal of a more inclusive and cohesive society in mind, i vote in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 reflects the european parliament's continued commitment to the protection of fundamental rights and human dignity, as well as the european union's firm will to uphold these rights in its external relations. finally, the proposal touches on important and sensitive issues, encouraging discussion and debate on the rule of law, migration processes and the situation of women. in order to advance these fundamental causes and values, i have accepted the proposal with a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because i believe it has done a good job of rebuilding the eu's fundamental rights framework in 2015. the last year has been particularly difficult in respect of fundamental rights because of the radicalisation of violence, including terrorist violence, xenophobia and forms of discrimination which are expressed in the rhetoric of incitement to hatred.
in writing. ‒ i would like to focus my speech on the human rights situation of the saharawi people. as the european union we must demand that the fundamental rights of the people of western sahara, including freedom of association, freedom of expression and the right to assemble, be respected. we must also demand the release of all sahrawi political prisoners and access to the territories of western sahara for members of our parliament, independent observers, ngos and the press. the un minurso mission should be fully re-established in accordance with the relevant un resolutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that this report has been dealt with by two committees, the committee on culture and the committee on industry. this is, in my view, a good approach, because the cultural and recreational industry is recognised as having the dual role of preserving cultural diversity and driving development and, above all, employment. we all remember the unhappy statement of a former italian minister, that culture is not food. today, if ever there was a need, it is europe that is denying that concept. the arts and creativity are a source of wealth, not only cultural but also economic, deeply rooted in the territorial fabric in which they operate and from which the cultural and recreational industries draw inspiration, allowing traditions to be kept alive through innovation and to create profit. i would like to give the example of the fashion industry, where large industrial groups cooperate with small and mediumsized enterprises and with the craftsmen, who make their products valuable. a productive world that would not survive on its own.
in writing. ‒ the strong digitalisation of the present is increasingly widening its scope of involvement. the arts and culture are among the sectors that are experiencing this aspect most, with all the advantages and disadvantages that come with it. the aim of this report should be to provide policy guidance for the development of european creative industries in the light of the digitisation process. personally, i think the right way forward is to experiment with new, innovative business models that don't already exist, that focus more on the creators of the works, the authors and performers and less on the rights holders. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ in the 21st century, the commitment to smart and sustainable growth cannot be without the valuable contribution that the cultural and creative industries can make to the creation of a more competitive and at the same time more inclusive economic system. the ehler-morgano report, which i supported with my vote, aims to show the way to unlocking the potential of the creative and cultural industries in europe once and for all. the text identifies some measures to be taken, such as: collect reliable statistics and data on the sector; fostering innovation and entrepreneurship by facilitating crossover; improving access to finance; supporting new business models and, above all, developing skills, such as commercial skills, to meet the changing needs of an environment increasingly affected by the transition to the digital economy and the disruption of traditional value chains. the report calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative package, addressing precarious contractual situations and ensuring compliance with basic social and labour standards. appropriate measures are needed to reduce the value gap and ensure that authors, artists and rights holders are fairly remunerated for their creations.
in writing. ‒ despite some welcome progress, i do not support the proposal to put the decision-making process on cultural issues in the hands of the commission, because it would mean not respecting the cultural diversity of the various member states, and instead imposing a model that has been brought down from above. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ european culture and art represent 3000 years of common cultural heritage. in a time of sluggish economic recovery, the cultural and creative industries are a potential 'to be unlocked', by exploiting their significant impact in terms of sustainable growth and employment. it is a dense network of innovative smes and start-ups directly linked to art, culture and creativity, which not only promote the safeguarding of our cultural heritage, but also generate value from intellectual property. i support this report, which stresses that concerted action at community level is needed to realise the full potential of the sector. facilitating access to the market and to the european funds available to the cultural industry means supporting a sector which provides jobs for over 7% of the european union's working population.
in writing. ‒ in 21st century europe, with the transition to the digital economy, ccis (cultural and creative industries) are gradually replacing traditional production processes and traditional value chains. today, the production of quality content and the ability to innovate, to tell stories, to imagine, to evoke emotions have become our most valuable raw material: it is a matter to be nurtured, supported, promoted and defended. they preserve and promote europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, contribute to the transmission of knowledge and values and to the safeguarding of the tangible and intangible heritage for present and future generations, and at the same time, as the evidence clearly shows, are instruments of social cohesion, employment and growth. an organic approach to ccis is essential to support the recovery of many european businesses, in italy, spain, greece, france and other countries that have suffered from the crisis.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, which offers valuable suggestions to the commission for building a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries (ccis). as i have said on many occasions, the european union must change course and put culture at the heart of its foreign policy. focusing on cultural cooperation with its internal and external partners helps to enhance the union's image and to promote a world order based on peace, respect for human rights and mutual understanding. in this context, ccis are a useful link in the strategy for international cultural relations between the constantly evolving ict environment and the development of a stronger european consciousness, creating a sense of belonging and mutual understanding among citizens of the various member countries. the legal framework for copyright and intellectual property must be made consistent and harmonised in such a way as to encourage the use of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to provide policy guidance for the development of europe's cultural and creative industries, particularly in the light of the trend towards strong digitisation, related initiatives (e.g. content portability) and the announced modernisation of the legal framework for intellectual property rights (copyright). the approach is rather conventional, focusing on the preservation of existing business models, strongly oriented towards the protection of rights holders, where necessary through mainly restrictive and sanctioning measures; it is based on a model of mass culture, essentially consumerist, where the processing of the cultural product requires its commodification. i voted against it, along with the m5s europe delegation.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries (ccis) in the european union generate €547 billion a year, or about 4% of the nominal gdp of the entire union. i believe that the legal framework governing copyright and intellectual property should be revised and adapted to the challenges of the digital age. in particular, the report, for which i voted in favour, stresses that the european institutions should define rules which provide for fair remuneration and adequate legal protection for all those involved in the creative process. i believe that this reform is particularly urgent in certain sectors, such as high fashion, because counterfeiting causes a considerable reduction in the income of firms, resulting in job losses, as well as risks to the health of consumers. i also believe that the commission should develop tailor-made funding and funds for the cultural and creative industries in order to stimulate development and innovation in these areas. finally, i am convinced that the european union must increase the protection of workers in the cultural and creative industries in the areas of contracts, collective representation, social security, health insurance and taxation in order to combat existing forms of precariat and facilitate the mobility of artists throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to outline an industrial policy for the cultural and creative industries sector, but concentrates the decision-making powers of the cultural sector on the european commission. the report also contains points which are acceptable, but which are clouded by a centralization of decision-making which does not respect cultural diversity. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ our civilization has made a significant contribution to the world's cultural heritage and, in order to continue on the path taken thousands of years ago, i strongly support the report. in addition to the undeniable cultural value, there is a strong emphasis on inclusion and social cohesion, and these essential elements lead to a prominent consideration of the cultural and creative industries as a stimulus to innovation in other sectors. promoting creativity today therefore implies a general increase in the psychological, social and economic well-being of the human being and therefore the establishment of a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for ccis is a priority in order to collect data on them, increase their competitiveness and their capacity to create new quality jobs. this will be achieved through cross-sectoral cooperation to integrate creativity with effective entrepreneurship education. in addition, new forms of financing for ccis, which are predominantly smes, should be introduced through public-private partnerships. i have great confidence in the role and work of the ccis and look forward to the adoption of policies to promote their development, as they are full of positive effects in priority areas to get out of the crisis affecting the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because i believe that the creative and cultural industries play a key role in the reindustrialisation of europe and are a driver of growth by being strategically placed to stimulate innovative spill-overs in other industrial sectors, such as those related to tourism, retail and digital technologies. on these issues the eu could take a leading role in further promoting the important positive effects that the creative sectors are generating across europe, including by increasingly incentivising policies in support of european culture.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries are sectors that rely on cultural values, creativity, skills and individual talent, which have the potential to create wealth and employment by generating value from intellectual property. it therefore becomes strategically important to support innovative and research-oriented european kics, as they are able to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity, pluralism and the provision of innovative and high-quality services, especially in the context of the converging and globalised market. while the consumption of creative content has never been higher, today the value gap at the expense of creators has created an inefficient and unfair market and poses a threat to the long-term health of the eu's creative and cultural sectors and to the success of the digital single market. i therefore welcome this resolution, which calls on the commission to identify legal solutions for online services that will overcome the distortion of the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the european cultural and creative industries (ccis) are innovative and research-oriented. in a globalised market, ccis have the potential to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity and thus safeguard cultural heritage for future generations. in addition, ccis are drivers of economic growth and employment with 3 million businesses and 12 million employees in the eu.
in writing. cultural and creative enterprises need a clear policy framework to guide their development in the great process of digitalisation we are experiencing. the report was intended to give impetus to new business models and new models of culture and innovation, by providing more protection for creators of works, authors and performers and less for rights holders. on the contrary, the conventional approach of preserving existing business models, strongly oriented towards the protection of rights holders, and mass culture models, consumerist and commodified, goes in the completely opposite direction. i voted no.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it examines the definition, potential and social and economic value of cultural and creative industries. in particular, i share the call on the commission to develop a coherent industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors, including the development and protection of cics in the strategic and priority objectives of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because the issue of the commission's focus on cultural decision-making cannot be reconciled with respect for the cultural diversity of the industries.
in writing. ‒ the european cultural and creative industry is a very important sector that provides more than 12 million full-time jobs eu-wide and creates approximately eur 509 billion in value for the eu gdp. i support the report in calling on the commission to develop and propose a comprehensive and coherent policy framework for the sector, to foster innovation and enable sufficient funding. an important part of this should be to increase the market access for smes and start-up businesses and to foster interaction between different market actors. the commission should create a legal copyright framework that works for smes, creators, and right holders as piracy and counterfeiting is a serious concern for the innovation sector. the european cultural and creative industry has great potential in combating youth unemployment and promoting reindustrialisation and the commission and member states should include the ccis in the eu youth employment initiative and provide ways to facilitate entrepreneurship and training in this sector. to this end, the completion of the digital single market should be a priority in order to fully seize the potential for growth and new jobs in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate mr morgano for his excellent translation of the s&d group's objectives and lines on the protection and development of one of the most strategic sectors for growth, employment and digital innovation in european enterprises in his own-initiative report 'a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries'. with our vote today, we intend to support our commitment to safeguarding and promoting the development of the cultural and creative industries, betting on the enormous wealth of europe's cultural heritage, on the extraordinary resources that small and medium-sized enterprises represent, and on the greater clarity and fairness that the social framework for workers in the sector has long called for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries (ccis) because i believe that businesses in this sector are a european asset and can foster growth and employment in the eu and can therefore make a decisive contribution to the social and economic development of the eu and its member states. europe must be able to fully exploit the new sources of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that are inherent in the cultural and creative industries. investing in them could both unlock their still largely unexplored potential and have a formidable impact in terms of creating growth and jobs, because of their social and economic impact in areas such as new business models, creativity and innovation, digitalisation and skills creation. in the eu, the cultural and creative industries employ over 12 million full-time workers, representing 5.3% of the total eu gdp val, with much higher peaks in certain regions, where ccis contribute more than other sectors to youth employment and have proven particularly resilient to the impact of the economic crisis. for all these reasons, the icc needs to be adequately supported.
in writing. ‒ in approving the own-initiative report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries (ccis), parliament reiterated an important principle: culture, art, creativity have the potential to create wealth and employment and are an important and growing part of the global economy, generating value from intellectual property. i think it is crucial to underline the economic contribution that cultural and creative industries generate, but it is even more important to remember that cultural and creative industries are industries that are based on cultural values, cultural diversity, individual and/or collective creativity, skills and talent and also play an essential role in the social development of the eu and its member states. with this own-initiative report, which i supported in the house, we asked the european commission to develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for ccis, and the european union to include the development, promotion and effective protection, and adequate funding of ccis among its strategic objectives and overall priorities, in order to stimulate the competitiveness of these industries and enable them to realise their potential in terms of quality job creation and growth.
in writing. cultural and creative industries (ccis) which are based on cultural values, creativity and talent are strategically and importantly positioned to create new jobs. in europe, ccis represent the uniqueness of culture and the arts, promoting cultural and linguistic diversity, strengthening european identity, and transmitting the principles of heritage preservation. but they also have the potential to become a tool for promoting social cohesion. the report therefore calls on the commission to create a comprehensive policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors, to increase the competitiveness of ccis by providing adequate funding and to find a single definition. i am sure that these policies will help to promote and protect our cultural heritage, and i am voting in favour of the report on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a coherent eu policy for the cultural and creative industries. this proposal can be decisive not only in promoting a european identity but also in respecting the cultural and linguistic diversity which contributes to maintaining good relations with third countries. furthermore, the cultural and creative industries are a key development factor for the european union and its member states, both socially and economically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the colleagues' proposal as i share the assumption that the cultural and creative industries (ccis) are a significant and growing part of the global economy, involving a wide range of segments, from architecture to arts and crafts, from audiovisual to entertainment, from design to high-end industry, from music and radio to publishing. in this sense, they act as a generator of employment and wealth with a positive impact on the economic system in terms of growth, employment, investment and innovation (aspects that strengthen social cohesion). they ensure the safeguarding and promotion of cultural and linguistic peculiarities within the eu, while reinforcing the sense of belonging to the european and regional identity. they are thus a vehicle for european values such as creativity, excellence, craftsmanship and culture in the world. in view of these considerations, they agree on the need to arrive at a standardised definition of ccis in order to monitor constantly the output and the desirability of adequate training of workers in the sector, on the need for copyright protection in order to prevent the cci market from deteriorating and on the need to remove barriers to access to finance for the cultural and creative industries. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the commission to draw up an ambitious legislative package on the cultural and creative industries, providing for funding to promote their development and precise measures to ensure that basic social and labour standards are met. the cultural and creative industries are a strategic sector for job creation and sustainable development. they shall protect and promote cultural heritage and encourage innovation. the member states and the european union, and in particular the commission, must aim to develop the full potential of these enterprises by promoting education, training and skills. equally important will be ensuring that value-creators in the sector such as authors, creatives and actors receive fair remuneration for their work and that their contracts comply with european standards on social and health contributions and tax rules. finally, in addition to direct funding from the institutions, the new legislative framework will have to promote other forms of funding, such as microcredit or crowdfunding. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries (ccis) provide more than 12 million full-time jobs, corresponding to 7.5% of the eu's workforce. they represent a fast-growing sector that promotes innovation and helps to alleviate the current economic and employment difficulties in the eu. however, there are still many challenges facing the cultural and creative industries: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. i have decided to vote in favour of the own-initiative report, which is intended to highlight not only the great value and economic and social potential of this sector, but also the need for a coherent long-term european framework for its development.
in writing. ‒ creative industries put human creativity at the heart of their activities and represent the new frontier of contemporary economic development. it is a productive dimension that generates innovation and is also permeated by it. according to the latest figures from the european commission, cultural and creative industries account for around 3% of the eu's gross domestic product and jobs. despite these important figures, this type of company is still too largely undervalued, especially in terms of access to funds. i believe that in this respect it is necessary for member states to coordinate their efforts to reform the legislative framework in which the cultural and creative industries operate and to define policies and initiatives to promote market access and investment. it is also essential to recognise the high economic value of european excellence, such as design and fashion, which make our businesses famous throughout the world.
in writing. the own-initiative report aims to provide policy guidance for the development of europe's cultural and creative industries. this is a response to the strong trend towards digitisation of the market and related legislative initiatives, such as the one on content portability, and also in view of the announced modernisation of the legal framework for intellectual property rights (copyright). the document, however, aims to preserve existing business models, which are strongly oriented towards the protection of rights holders, through mainly restrictive and sanctioning measures. it relies on a model of mass culture, essentially consumerist. the rights of creators, performers and performers are not given the attention we in the five star movement have proposed in our amendments. the needs of small and medium-sized market players are not taken into account and no attempt is made to open up intellectual property rights to developments so that the model of cultural production does not depend exclusively on such revenues. in the light of all these considerations, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the eastern partnership (eap) is based on respect for international law, the fundamental values of democracy and human rights, so the importance of gender equality and women's rights must not be forgotten. even today, the weight of social discrimination and gender stereotypes is felt. the report aims to stabilise relations between the european union and its eastern neighbourhood and the empowerment of women and their active participation in social, political and economic life is key to the achievement of the changes under way. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus are six eastern european countries that have been cooperating with the european union for many years in various fields within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the mariya gabriel report, which i supported today, analyses the status of women's rights in these countries, highlighting the discrepancies between the declarations of principle enshrined in constitutional charters and the actual level of equality guaranteed there. the text, while adopting a general approach, effectively underlines the persistence of severe economic and social obstacles which not only prevent women from participating in decision-making and political processes but also create significant obstacles to their free entry into the labour market. the persistence of stereotypes, discrimination and gender-based violence is also linked to the lack of protection of women's reproductive health and rights. the european union has a duty to step up its action in this area, making the most of the tools made available by the enp to call for a change of policies in the eastern partnership countries. the development of a culture that is more attentive to promoting women's rights and exploiting their potential as an investment in the future is a priority.
in writing. ‒ while i share the importance of the issue of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries and the need to put an end to violence against women, the report in question presents objective criticisms which have led me to prefer an abstention vote.
in writing. ‒ stabilising its neighbourhood is one of the main objectives of the eu's foreign policy and the european neighbourhood policy (enp) to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all. a crucial role in achieving this objective is played by women. the eastern partnership is based on respect for the principles of international law, the fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights; the importance of gender equality and women's rights should not be forgotten. despite both being recognised in the constitutions and legal systems of all eastern partnership countries, social discrimination and gender stereotypes are still present, which prevent women from being more involved in the labour market and in political life and contribute to the persistence of social acceptance of domestic violence. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement, and will continue to support the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries because there are still deep concerns about equal rights for men and women. there are still thorny and unresolved issues, such as the scourge of trafficking, which involves thousands of women, or the plight of roma women. women's participation in political life is also low in the eastern partnership countries. deep institutional changes are still needed to combat discrimination and violence and to promote the political participation and visibility of women in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ the empowerment of women and their active participation in social, political and economic life is crucial to the achievement of the changes under way, but the burden of social discrimination and gender stereotypes is still felt. in the op countries, women's presence in the political power structures (executive and legislative) is still very low, and the same is true in the business sector. in addition, these countries are identified as countries of origin or transit for trafficking in human beings, where the majority of victims are women and children. the report contains examples of good practice, relevant and successful projects for the promotion of women's rights and gender equality in the op states and i voted in favour of it without any doubt.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation of the countries of eastern europe and their economic and social well-being are inextricably linked to the role of women and to respect for their rights and dignity. despite the fact that women are on average more educated than men, their presence in national representative bodies and in leadership roles remains extremely limited in the eastern partnership states. discrimination against women in the workplace, the persistence of stereotypes about their social roles and the gender pay gap continue to be a cause for concern. in addition, the persistence of child labour as reported in the report is particularly alarming in countries such as georgia, moldova and azerbaijan. and the current economic crisis risks making the situation worse and perpetuating the cycle of poverty and child exploitation. europe can do much to stop this tragic phenomenon, especially through an effective neighbourhood policy and appropriate cooperation instruments. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the delegations to the euronest parliamentary assembly and the eu-moldova parliamentary association committee, this report can only make me proud of the work done and give me the impetus for what is still needed. in fact, in the year that is coming to an end, the first meeting of the euronest women's forum was held in march because of the need to implement the presence of women in decision-making processes, since we know how women are often excluded and hindered. it is therefore essential to introduce rules on equal access to power through the exchange of best practices with the partner countries, not only in the light of their different cultural backgrounds but also in the light of the profound economic transformations undergone, which make it a priority to strengthen economic participation through national plans. the role of women is undoubtedly crucial to ensuring peace given their involvement in humanitarian assistance; the decisive role it plays in ensuring security, stability and prosperity must also be recognised. for this to happen, it is essential to review existing legislation to eradicate abuse and violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as its main purpose is to highlight the obstacles to women's empowerment and how greater gender equality could contribute to the achievement of the eastern partnership and enp objectives. the report also includes examples of good practice and successful projects for the promotion of women's rights and gender equality in the eastern partnership states. the eu's support in the context of the european neighbourhood policy is also analysed and some recommendations are made in this regard. the report also assesses the situation of women in several areas which are of fundamental importance to the epp group: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: women's participation in decision-making, women's economic participation, violence against women, the role of women in peaceful conflict resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, as a woman, i believe that gender equality should be one of the main objectives of the european union's foreign policy in the eastern partnership countries - in eastern europe and the south caucasus. it is necessary to promote the role of women in the private and public sectors of civil society, with zero tolerance for domestic violence and support for equal opportunities in working life, eliminating all forms of discrimination against women.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report because, despite many positive points and a more than agreeable purpose, there are still some overly detailed passages and the report tries to insert itself unnecessarily into the russian-ukrainian affair.
in writing. ‒ in the eastern partnership, gender issues are fully integrated into the european legal heritage, which we all need to work on and continuously seek to improve. i have recently dealt with a particular aspect of this continuing political and social battle, namely the full and equal inclusion of women in the agricultural labour market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it correctly addresses the problem of gender stereotypes, which still block women from accessing the managerial positions they deserve and from being paid in line with men. we are thus depriving the whole of european society of a fundamental contribution to the innovation of our enterprises and we are forgetting the promise of social equality and non-discrimination which underlies the eastern partnership and the european union itself.
in writing. ‒ since 2009, the eastern partnership has aimed to stabilise the european union's neighbourhood in order to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all. i believe that gender equality and the recognition of women's rights play a crucial role in achieving this objective and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report. we have unfortunately found that the situation in the area of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries needs to be improved: women are significantly absent from power structures and, although they have higher levels of education, are mainly employed in low-paid sectors. we therefore emphasised the role of education in breaking down stereotypes about women's roles and eliminating discriminatory practices, and highlighted the need for targeted support and mentoring for women entrepreneurs, who often lack access to credit or business networks. we also reiterated that the fight against violence against women is a shared challenge for the eu and its eastern neighbourhood countries, with particular attention to the need to create effective protection mechanisms for women involved in defending human rights.
in writing. gender equality is one of our strategic priorities for the period 2014-2020. statistics show that women still have a small percentage of presence in the political power structures; in the economic sphere, despite being more educated than men, women represent 10% of the members of the governing bodies of business associations and 15% of the members of trade unions; the pay gap remains very wide; and between 7 and 25 percent of women have been victims of domestic violence at least once. the european union now aims to create a stable situation in the neighbouring countries by promoting security and peace, and women are an essential part of this process, which will only be achieved by making their emancipation possible. women's rights and gender equality are recognised in the political and legal systems of the eastern partnership states, yet there are clear signs of serious discrimination and stereotypes that prevent women's inclusion in society and encourage domestic violence. for these reasons, the purpose of the report is to list the obstacles to women's empowerment and to present a set of recommendations and good examples that are essential to achieving the objectives of the eastern partnership.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on women's rights in the eastern partnership states aims to highlight the need to consolidate equality between men and women in today's society. in the eastern partnership area, the situation of women is particularly sensitive, mainly due to major changes in society and the uncertain economic situation. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls for greater use of legislation to combat discrimination and gender inequality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of your proposal because, in addition to highlighting the obstacles to women's empowerment in the eastern partnership countries, it provides examples of good practice that, in some of those countries, have led to the strengthening of gender equality. without women's rights, the eu's security, peace, stability and prosperity, which are the cornerstones of the stabilisation of its eastern neighbourhood, are undermined.
in writing. ‒ stabilising its neighbourhood is one of the european union's priorities. the eastern partnership, launched in 2009, is a joint initiative between the eu and six countries in eastern europe and the south caucasus. the gender dimension, as a principle of international law and a fundamental value of democracy, is of course also part of the commitments made by this partnership. with this resolution we wanted to highlight how greater gender equality and support for women could contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the partnership itself. it is essential that the partnership countries do more to strengthen equality between women and men, for example by raising awareness of the stereotypes that still largely affect public life, or by overcoming the many gaps in their legal systems on the prevention of violence against women or gender discrimination. there is also a need for increased attention to lgbti people who are often discriminated against in public and official settings with no consequences for those who commit such discriminatory actions. much remains to be done and the eu can improve the situation of women in these countries through the many useful instruments in its neighbourhood policy, and for these reasons i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ parliament's action must be to draw attention to the fact that gender-based crimes and sexual violence are classified in the rome statute as war crimes and crimes against humanity. one of the objectives of the european institutions must be to devote more resources to combating all forms of violence against women (physical, sexual, psychological, economic) and among these must be the modification of legal instruments to provide assistance to victims of violence. it is about effectively preventing and, in time, eliminating violence against women and girls, with appropriate sanctions for those responsible. parliament called for effective protection of women to be ensured by training legal professionals, police officers and other staff involved in reporting and reporting acts of violence. finally, we encourage the eastern partnership countries to sign and ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women as soon as possible, as none of the countries concerned has yet ratified it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. in particular, this report aims to highlight the obstacles to women's empowerment and how greater gender equality could contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the eastern partnership and the enp. examples of good practice, relevant and successful projects for the promotion of women's rights and gender equality in the eastern partnership states are also included.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you and the leftwing prime minister of slovakia, who is a socialist and who is president-in-office of the council, who has come here to lecture us, and who is not listening to me, a few questions. first, why does italy have to take in hundreds of thousands of illegal, fake refugees every year and slovakia does not? why would you do that? secondly, why does slovakia receive much more money from europe than it pays, and why does italy send much more money to brussels each year than it receives back? over the last ten years the italians have given europe 60 billion euros more than they have received from brussels. so i make a proposal to you, which is my proposal but also the proposal of millions of italians. you take the illegal immigrants who landed in italy because of the renzi government and the european union and we take back our money, because that money is needed for our earthquake victims, for our businesses, for our elderly who do not make it to the end of the month. italians are tired of the sermons and lies of this europe, tired of being invaded by hordes of illegals, tired of having to pay for you. we don't want any more illegal immigrants in our country and most importantly we want our money back, all of our money, now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen this morning, with the award of the sakharov prize, how much work we still have to do. i thank mr weidenholzer for the excellent work he has done and i also join in the applause for the commitment to the special representative stavros lambrinidis. this report must be seen as an important tool for evaluating european action in support of human rights and democracy and it must help us to improve our approach and adapt it to the specific areas of intervention. the annual report, because of the breadth of topics covered, must necessarily use a thematic approach, without focusing on individual cases of newspapers but, at the same time, must be able to provide clear indicators that can highlight where european action has improved compared to the previous year and where the objectives set were not achieved. with this report we must be able to take a serious look at what we have done, particularly in certain areas, i am thinking of trade agreements, and we must use the benchmarks and actions in this direction to build new visions of human rights. i think we have a lot to do, to do, to accomplish, and we have to do it by raising, in essence, the political level of our human rights intervention. our response must be to make the european citizens understand that less rights mean less democracy and that cooperation with third countries in this field is also indispensable for us and for our future. we must be consistent and ensure respect for human rights both inside and outside the european union and we must do this with great energy, we must fundamentally understand that the question of human rights is an essential question of all european union policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. this year's annual report deals in a concise but organic way with topics of considerable importance: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the sustainable development of the mediterranean, in particular the implementation of the new strategy for the mediterranean, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new strategy for the mediterranean, in particular the implementation of the new strategy for the mediterranean. i particularly appreciated the parts concerning the defence and guarantee of the rights of indigenous peoples, the support for human rights defenders, the renewed commitment to the fight for freedom for everyone, in an atmosphere of peace and solidarity. i would also like to stress the part devoted to migrants, refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons (idps), because this is an issue which, in my view, represents the greatest challenge of our times and on which the entire credibility of the european union is at stake. finally, i welcome the part on trade, business and human rights, which is dealt with in depth in the report on corporate liability, for which i was rapporteur, because i believe that more attention should be paid to the policies adopted by multinationals in respect of human rights. of course, focusing more on some issues does not mean neglecting those that have already been studied or giving less importance to others. when it comes to the protection of human rights, we can distinguish between different areas and aspects, but in the end, the common thread that binds them all and that we must defend and promote remains the same: acting with humanity. it remains to be seen whether what we have promoted with words will be translated into equally praiseworthy and effective action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning parliament gave its highest recognition to the struggle for human rights by awarding two extraordinary young women. their stories and testimonies have touched our hearts and confirmed how much violence and discrimination against women and girls have increased in recent years, especially in war zones and under authoritarian regimes: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. europe must remain a model for the coexistence of peoples and cultures in the world, nadia and lamiya reminded us in their address. it is unacceptable that in many countries of the world today women still do not enjoy the same basic freedoms and economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights as men. europe has the tools to promote democratic values in the world. what we are asking for is greater ambition in policies to protect the rights and dignity of millions of women around the world who are victims of all forms of violence and to pursue our commitment to denounce and punish those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, including crimes related to sexual violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2015 was also a difficult year, with numerous human rights violations and democracy suffering in many parts of the world. restrictions on ngos, serious human rights violations against activists, and attacks against journalists and bloggers have been reported in many countries. the lisbon treaty has strengthened the european union's commitment on the international stage, but much more needs to be done to guarantee fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, and the principles of equality and solidarity. the terrorist threat, which hit europe hard first in paris and then in brussels, also put our system to the test. the annual report stresses the need to balance security needs with respect for civil liberties. today more than ever, the building of a european area of rights that is genuinely inclusive in its complexity and not just geographical must be a priority on the agenda of the community institutions and the member states.
on behalf of the enf group. the enthusiastic tone with which the situation of a europe which, according to this report, has decided to play a leading role, i would say to dictate world policy, is described is in conflict with a somewhat different reality. a reality which sees, for example, a totally changed situation in the international relationship between the great powers, at a time when even a simple real estate investor, a self-made person, who has always been involved in business, real estate, but who obviously has a great deal of common sense, has understood that the fight against terrorism, because here we are told that a strong, muscular, european defence policy is needed to combat terrorism and pretends not to know that the golden way to combat terrorism and defeat terrorism aleppo teaches is to seek a policy of agreement, of coexistence with that other world military power which is able to fight terrorism, which fights terrorism and above all which defeats terrorism, while europe is good at making denunciations, especially in defending human rights, so weak that it cannot even succeed in suppressing the trafficking of poor people through the mediterranean, as we have had to do many times. but let's get to the defense policy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but is prepared to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the question then arises as to what the real aims of this european army are. the first is to complete the disarmament of individual states and to complete the robbery of sovereignty and also an economic robbery, given the high cost: 500 million a year is not for something that is useless, it is not a small amount. the second, the second look, the second target is even worse. the original text of the resolution of 22 november on european defence policy reads, verbatim, that 'the army entrusted to the european defence agency should work in concert with nato on various operations, including those relating to immigration'. it is easy to assume that the european military could, for example, be used to rescue migrants arriving by sea on our shores, to help the big traffickers. since the policy of the european union has been to turn us into open-air refugee camps, we italians, greece, and so on, the soldiers would be reduced to completing the job. that is not what europe needs, to fight terrorism seriously, to put an end to this idiotic and irresponsible policy of cold war against russia, which is indispensable for us to eradicate terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the situation of instability and uncertainty facing the european union, characterised by recent events which have highlighted the signs of an ongoing political crisis, deserves an articulated and structured response, commensurate with the global challenges to be faced in the near future, over a long period. the report on the implementation of the foreign and security policy, also recalling the report on the global strategy presented in this house in july by the high representative, aims to relaunch and strengthen in operational terms those principles and values which are specific to the european union and which have enabled us to build a peaceful society. moreover, the behaviour of russia, which has repeatedly and deliberately violated international law, and the uncertainty surrounding the election of the new president of the united states give europe a central role in managing and intervening in the respect of international law and humanitarian law. the european union is at the forefront of multilateral diplomacy worldwide, but today, with the deepening of the crisis and the obvious difficulty of action by the united nations, caused by cross-cutting veins, we must become aware of the need to strengthen the european role, laying the foundations for a proactive impulse, combining soft power with hard power. stronger and common military capabilities and therefore a more active and effective role in conflict resolution and peacebuilding are key elements in enabling the european union to respond fully to today's crises and i am convinced that you, mrs mogherini, and we with you can, today more than yesterday, achieve a great result for the european union in this field.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is currently surrounded by an arc of instability, as large parts of the middle east and north africa are engulfed in ethnic-religious conflicts, conflicts which have direct and serious consequences for the security and well-being of european citizens. this internal and external crisis must also be an opportunity for the union to improve its functioning and its cooperation. the union's foreign and defence policy must be strengthened. the member states must have more ambition in the field of common security, and the long process leading to a single european defence system, in which cooperation between member states must become the norm, must begin immediately. and i agree with president juncker's proposal to create a european defence fund to boost research and innovation. the ongoing defence research activities are to constitute an important preparatory action for a european programme funded by the european union under the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. the brok reports on the implementation of the union's common foreign and security policy represent the first substantial step towards genuine european integration in a sensitive area such as foreign affairs. article 36 of the teu gives us the tools to act with a strong implementation of the common security policy. and that is precisely what we wanted to do, to lay the foundations today for the council to approve the initiative of the high representative and, with the support of parliament, to adopt our resolution next thursday. this is a chance you don't want to miss. i believe that the recovery of european sovereignty, which the member states no longer have the strength to grasp, is inevitable. we need to be able to speak with one voice at last, also in foreign policy. the challenges ahead call for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the end of the long work carried out in recent years by the european parliament, in close cooperation with the international labour organisation, to extend the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan to cover trade in textile products. i am proud to have followed for the s&d group in the committee on foreign affairs what we can regard as a positive case of cooperation between the european union and a third country, as regards the assertion of human rights through our trade policy. in fact, thanks to the pressure of the european parliament, with the gradual opening up of the uzbek authorities since 2013, the serious problem of child labour has been substantially eliminated in a relatively short time, while significant, though still insufficient, progress has been made against the use of forced labour. we are talking about a strategic country in the region, where important changes are taking place. i am referring in particular to the presidential elections held on 4 december last, the first in the history of the young republic, which were won by former prime minister mirziyoyev, which is not surprising. we wish him well and hope that he will continue on the path towards greater openness and cooperation with the ilo and the european union in the agricultural sector and beyond. in fact, much remains to be done in various fundamental areas, from respect for human rights to the rule of law, from pluralism to freedom of the press, issues on which we will remain vigilant. however, with the consent we will vote on tomorrow, parliament wants to give a positive signal, an encouragement to the uzbek government to show that the european union intends to work with third countries in a partnership rather than to impose its own rules, but remembering that if we take steps backwards on child or forced labour we will reserve the right to suspend the agreement.
thank you, mr president, for giving me the floor. in my capacity as a member of the central asian delegation, i have travelled to uzbekistan many times and have only been back in the last few weeks. yes, of course, it is true that this country, in its difficult path to independence, has had to look to the future. of course, every hand was needed there - including the hands of children. but i think uzbekistan has come a very, very significant way in recent years, has really fought child labour in an unprecedented way and is very, very good in this context today. i think we should give this country a chance now. the opportunity to sell cotton on the market, but above all to sell finished textile products, so to get a decent value added from cotton. this chance is deserved by the country, and if i look around a bit, where else clothes are produced in the world, and unfortunately also under what conditions, then uzbekistan has the chance to be a country that now leads by example to others. so i think that's a good protocol, and we should agree to it tomorrow.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the free trade agreement we signed with colombia and peru in 2012 will be extended to ecuador after the vote in this parliament. 2016 was a very tough year for this small south american country, the collapse of the oil price by more than 60 percent, the revaluation of the dollar, the devaluation of other south american currencies had a strong impact on the economy and exports, which fell by 29 percent. adding to this crisis was the april 16 earthquake, which caused $3 billion in damage. the agreement with ecuador provides for a gradual and asymmetrical reduction of customs duties and, in my view, is a good measure to help this country in a difficult time and to strengthen its economic structure. my only concerns remain two: i am pleased, on the one hand, that today agreement was reached on the question of competition between ecuadorian banana producers and european producers, particularly those from the canary islands, who were in danger of being crushed by ecuadorian production, which, we recall, in some cases does not meet european quality standards. the question now is whether the agreement reached today will sufficiently protect european farmers. secondly, my concern is about the respect of ilo conventions and freedom of association in ecuador, because although the paper treaty claims to promote these rights, in reality an ituc report denounces many obstacles to freedom of association and organisation, in particular barriers to the establishment of trade union organisations, the system of the single trade union in certain sectors and the limits of collective agreements. if the commission is able to resolve these problems, this agreement could become a good example of how the union's trade policy can work for the benefit of all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ecuador is facing a serious crisis in which the collapse in the price of oil by more than 60% has produced a 30% drop in imports, but more importantly, the country has yet to rebuild from the damage of a terrible earthquake, in which more than 360 people died and $3 billion in damage was caused. we need to strengthen an economic system at a time of real instability. accession to the trade agreement which the union has already signed with colombia and peru would be a vital development opportunity for ecuador, a sustainable and economic development which must, however, be necessarily linked to social and democratic development. the opening of the trade agreement must be an opportunity for negotiated dialogue and monitoring, including on sensitive issues such as freedom of the press, a sore point in a country which has launched more than 900 prosecutions against opposition journalists in three years. the european parliament should therefore support the agreement, but bind it absolutely to respect for workers' rights, as well as freedom of expression and information.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru is certainly an important milestone in our relations and for the future of the country, but i must stress that it could make the serious situation of ecuadorian banana growers working on small farms, who are denied the right to free association at sectoral level, even worse. i myself was recently in quito and met some of the representatives of the astac union, the same ones that many of us had already met in brussels and who explained to me the situation on the ground in ecuador. thousands of banana farmers working in hundreds of small farms in ecuador are threatened with death for the simple fact that they have called for respect for human rights and better working conditions. we can't afford another blank check and hope for a miracle, but we have to be careful. commissioner, the european union must demand freedom of association for ecuadorian banana growers before the trade agreement is active.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish first of all to thank ms delahaye and the shadow rapporteurs for all the work that they have done in producing this report, as well as mr ali for the opinion provided on behalf of the committee on budgets. i would like to congratulate you, ms delahaye, on achieving your first parliamentary report. this report comes at a very good time, when the commission is preparing a communication for adoption next year on the modernisation and simplification of the cap, as announced by president juncker at the agricultural outlook conference last week. i have identified three principles which i believe should guide the new cap: market resilience, more sustainable agricultural production and progress on generational renewal. the issues that are raised in this report go to the heart of the debate about the future of the cap by asking how best to deal with risks and crises in agriculture and reflecting on the whole range of public policy instruments that are currently available. i want to assure ms delahaye that we will fight together for farmers’ livelihoods and that we are on the same political page in this regard. i fully agree with the central thesis of this report that we need to maintain sustainable agricultural production in europe, and for this we need to seek efficient ways to ensure farmers can cope with risks and crises. we all know that risks and crises are inherent in agricultural production, and farmers have consistently demonstrated resilience in the face of adversity. despite this resilience in the market orientation of the cap, there continues to be clear justification for a formal public intervention, either at the level of the member states or of the european union, in order to support our farmers. several interventions by farmers and stakeholders at last week’s european union agricultural outlook conference demonstrated the importance of this message. the report quite rightly acknowledges that the cap has evolved over time and in line with the needs of european farmers and society, and in response to the challenges of the day. however, during the past two years we have experienced particular difficulties in the dairy, pig—meat and fruit and vegetable sectors in particular. thankfully, we are now seeing a recovery in those markets, not least as a consequence of the robust actions that have been taken by the european commission. in response to the crisis in various sectors, we have deployed virtually the full toolkit that is available under the common market organisation and mobilised in excess of eur 1.5 billion extra resources. if we take the example of the mill sector, as many as 24 regulations have been adopted between september 2014 and september 2016. these measures adopted included the opening, extension and enhancement of private storage aid schemes, the extension of public intervention periods and fixed price ceilings, the granting of targeted aid for our livestock farmers, the authorisation of collective agreements on the planning of milk production, and even the introduction of a milk production reduction scheme. we will also remember that we managed to find synergies between the migration and agricultural policies to make sure that milk is distributed to school children in syria. there are also other instruments available to help market actors to become more resilient and sustainable by their own means. i am referring here to the significant progress in market transparency that has been made over the past two years, with dashboards being developed for the main agricultural products, and observatories being established for milk, pigmeat, beef and veal to give market signals to our farmers and our agribusinesses. building on the work of the milk market observatory, these have been a good success in terms of providing accurate and timely information to all of our operators so that they can make market-led and good decisions. the experience has also raised some questions, of course, about the effectiveness of the toolkit available. our responsibility as policymakers is to create an adequate framework to help the farming sector to successfully deal with risks and crises by enhancing its resilience. in my view, there are a number of questions we need to ask ourselves: do the existing tools allow us to act where needed, and to do so quickly enough? should farmers have greater built-in measures to help them in times of crisis on the basis of a risk management approach? and do producers and processors have the ability to diversify their markets, or to find new markets in times of market loss? these are questions, perhaps, that indicate to us the existing tools are not perfect. so we have to continually look at the variety of instruments at our disposal in order to try and improve them. one of those ways is through the provision of a basic income support in order to help farmers within an effective safety net. this will continue as an essential element of any new cap through a system of direct payments, something which ms delahaye’s report calls for. you will by now be familiar with report of the agri-market taskforce whose recommendations have been well received. several of these recommendations, for instance those on market transparency, the improved functioning of producer organisations, as well as risk management, go hand in hand with the concerns that have been expressed in this report. i welcome and look forward to the hearing which the committee on agriculture and rural development will hold next month on the agri-market taskforce report. the recommendations contained in ms delahaye’s report will form part of the debate on the future of the cap, particularly in relation to the adequacy of the existing risk and crisis management tools. in addressing the adequacy and use of these tools, we should consider any obstacles which prevent or discourage their use. this report, then, is a valuable contribution to the debate and i acknowledge the emphasis which the report places on the importance of a common policy. in this context of preparing a new cap which aims to modernise and simplify the policy, i can assure the house that my services will examine this report very carefully and ensure that appropriate account is taken of it and its recommendations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in fact, price volatility is one of the most fundamental problems facing farmers and the more we remove market instruments from the cap, such as quotas, the greater the risk of volatility. we have seen this clearly in the last few months and years. looking ahead, it is relatively easy to see that volatility in the markets will not decrease but increase. i therefore agree with you, commissioner, that we need instruments to combat this volatility. one instrument - you also mentioned it - could be insurance and mutual funds. and indeed, we have instruments in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy today. i come from a country and a region which probably has the highest density of insurance contracts in the european union. when i look at the complexity, the difficulty of the rules we've created, the bureaucracy we've created, i sometimes get sick of it. we spend hundreds of millions a year to support insurance contracts, and at the same time very often reap a rejection from the farmers. i agree with you, commissioner, that we must look at the instruments we have and see where they can be improved, where they can be de-bureaucratized and where they can be made more accessible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his availability and also thank mr delahaye for his availability to discuss the matter with us during these weeks of work. the volatility of agricultural prices is one of the main causes of the dire situation facing european agriculture and the forecasts are not reassuring. globalisation, the instability and sophistication of agricultural markets, the increasing variability of supply due to climate instability, the increase of health risks and the fragile balance of the food chain will continue to have a negative impact on farmers' exposure to price volatility. a more effective policy is needed, with targeted instruments to ensure sustainable agricultural production, accompanied by fair and remunerative prices that mitigate the negative effects on farmers of exposure to price volatility. it is worth noting that while the european union is reducing strategic support to agriculture, its global market competitors, the united states, brazil and china, are introducing significant and growing public financial support to develop new risk policy models and to provide tools to protect their farmers from the negative effects of price volatility. if we want to protect our agriculture, we have to change the traditional approach. the negotiating power of producers in the food chain should be strengthened through standardised, transparent, balanced and collectively negotiated written contracts, with the aim of combating unfair trading practices, promoting competitiveness and ensuring income stability. to protect agricultural enterprises in a market-oriented cap, it is necessary to further develop climate, health and economic risk management tools, income stabilisation tools, individual provisioning mechanisms, mutual funds and income stabilisation tools. more needs to be done in terms of awareness and training, as well, in relation to existing risk management tools. i call on the commission to adopt, in close cooperation with the national authorities and farmers' associations, a plan to raise awareness of the risk management tools available under the second pillar of the cap. the countercyclical aid is a real novelty of the motion for a resolution we are discussing, it is intended to support farmers' incomes when unfavourable years are depressing their incomes and it is a key and innovative instrument for european policy which i hope the european commission will be able to evaluate properly, providing for greater flexibility in annual budgets or financial mechanisms which will enable the european farmer to receive the difference between a target price and the price actually received from the market. the access of farmers to credit must also be facilitated, and greater use must be made of financial instruments, possibly with the involvement of the eib, which could help to develop a credit guarantee mechanism for european farmers. european farmers can no longer wait, nor can they continue to pay the price of prolonged periods of low prices. it is time to protect european farmers from price volatility by strengthening their role in the food chain to ensure that they receive fair compensation for their products.
on behalf of the enf group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the respect for agricultural activity cannot and must not be an electoral slogan, but must be reflected in the acts of these european palaces, it must be reflected in the cap, it must be reflected in the rules on the internal market. in the name of the free market, you have unfortunately dismantled our agriculture. the fact that we are not governing imports, but rather the invasion of low-cost, low-quality products, is undermining the efforts of our farmers, the efforts of heroic farmers who protect the environment, sow the produce, irrigate it, treat it, harvest it, store it and try to market it. you think that in the end they have to do the math. it's absurd, if we think that this year to grow one hectare of rice means to get four quintals of rice, it means to get two hundred euros and to have spent one hundred and ninety, it means to have a presumed margin, potential of two euros, two euros and fifty, three euros per quintal. let us think, let us think, colleagues, and above all let us act before it is too late.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fall in the prices of many agricultural products, together with the extreme volatility which has in recent years led to ever wider, unpredictable and unfortunately often downward price fluctuations, is putting the sustainability of a sector as vital to the european economy as the agri-food sector at serious risk. if price volatility has always been a feature of agricultural markets, the present size, and even more so the size that may be reached in the future, require a common effort to ensure agricultural production capable of meeting the global challenge of food security, while ensuring stable and adequate incomes for our farmers. the measures provided for in the last reform of the common agricultural policy to counter market volatility have proved to be insufficient, as the crisis in the dairy sector has shown. the introduction of a complex system of red tape has, in fact, killed the potential that these instruments could have had in protecting european agricultural enterprises from market risks. the fact that the income stabilisation tool, considered one of the most innovative instruments introduced by the last reform, has been applied in only three countries of the union confirms the need to act as soon as possible in order to make the current measures simpler, more effective, more efficient and more usable by all member states. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, angélique delahaye, for the text we are about to vote on, a text which represents an excellent starting point, offering important insights not only in the short term, with measures which can be included in the omnibus package, but also in the long term, opening up a more articulated reflection on the use of countercyclical aid to protect farmers' incomes, with a view to complementarity between initiatives aimed at managing risks on the one hand and market crises on the other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of recent years has shown all the limitations of the common agricultural policy and, in particular, its inability to deal with price volatility in an effective way, allowing farmers to cope with price fluctuations. the result was that many businesses, too many businesses, were forced to close. we now know what the priorities are that need to be changed, emergency measures are no longer sufficient, one-off measures, we must create a stable system to protect our farmers, we must encourage aggregation in order to have greater contractual power vis-à-vis large-scale distribution. it is not enough to favour producer organizations; we must also help the size of the producer groups to grow. to cope with price volatility and to achieve greater income stability, farmers need access to facilitated financial instruments, and the eib should play a key role in this. the agricultural credit system must be facilitated, farmers must be able to rely on a banking system that grants loans, gives value to land, so that investment, structural reforms and technological innovation can be launched, enabling farmers to finally face the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too have a thought for aleppo. we have said it before, we say it again with determination and pain: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. i think that the european council tomorrow will unfortunately be disappointing and give us inadequate answers. president juncker is right to point out the achievements we have made, thanks in particular to this parliament, the whole parliament and the european commission. i am also grateful for the commitment that president juncker has reiterated to italy, but the knots remain firmly in the council's quagmire. we are in danger of being confronted yet again with vague words on the european asylum system, without any commitment to the redistribution of refugees. the council merely takes note of the commission's proposal on investment, but it does not go ahead and any delay affects people's lives. as president juncker has said, there are stories, there are people, and if the council does not take a decision, those decisions have repercussions on people's lives and on the lives of businesses. disappointing words about the youth guarantee. the commission has made a proposal, the socialists have made an even more ambitious proposal, including on the financial front, but nothing, i fear, will come from the council tomorrow. we also ask the council to decide on the civil service. the lack of answers from this council with a conservative majority must lead us to a common conclusion. we need a new phase, i say it very clearly, a europe based on conservative forces alone is no longer working, a new cycle must be opened. in the last six months, brexit, the us elections, the latest election results have revolutionized the landscape, and it is up to us to take up the demand for change that comes from citizens. first of all, we must start with a clear and diverse position, which is the richness of a democratic institution, which does not mean that we should not and cannot cooperate on individual dossiers. this is our duty when our positions are reflected, but what is certain is that after a deep reflection, not just of the last hour, by my group, structured cooperation as it has been for the last two and a half years has come to an end, and it has come to an end for political reasons. we want an open debate, not limited to the groups that formed the old coalition. we want a new polarization between the centre-right and the centre-left, which must lead to the untying of the knots that remain suspended and to which the council of tomorrow cannot give answers. the economy; a more ambitious investment plan focusing on the energy transition; a more substantial youth guarantee to respond to the real tragedy of europe today, which is youth unemployment; a real investment plan for and with africa, as we socialists have long called for; a more moral economy, fighting fraud and tax evasion; the sustainable development; a more ambitious climate and energy package; a 40% renewable energy target; a great deal of attention to food safety. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that the european parliament has spoken out on this subject many times and with great clarity of position. and we reiterate, in this form too, our disapproval and condemnation of the soviet bombs, the massacres, the barbarities that are taking place. we call for immediate humanitarian aid and an immediate ceasefire.
i think that the council of ministers will have to take note of the result of the referendum held in italy on 4 december. a referendum that said no to a draft amendment to the italian constitution that went in the directions that the j.p. morgan investment fund suggested for the constitutions of southern europe. we are very pleased that the 'no' vote has won, that the defence of the italian constitution, which was born of the anti-fascist resistance, has won, and i think that the council will also have to take note of the change of government in italy, due to the failure of matteo renzi also in this project of constitutional reform. matteo renzi is also one of the architects of the migration compact, which will be discussed at the next council. what are you proposing? in fact, cooperation with african states is being proposed, subject to border controls, with five countries of origin and transit, as was mentioned earlier. the consequences of this are already beginning to be seen in the draft agreement itself. in sudan eritreans are being arrested on an increasingly massive scale, and many ngos are already talking about a shameful agreement, a shameful agreement because it extends the process of externalizing borders which has already been tried and is still being tried in the agreement with turkey. a deal that's being called a success. i wonder how a successful agreement can be defined when the fundamental rights agency is talking about sensitive and significant human rights violations. how can an agreement with an authoritarian regime such as erdogan be considered a success, while hdp parliamentarians are in prison, without even being able to receive medical care, while many kurdish mayors are currently prevented from carrying out their duties. what does success mean? so we are talking about standardizing the standards for asylum here too, and of course standardizing means "lowering". we are told not to leave italy alone, and we certainly agree, but i would like to try to say that it is not enough to leave the funds outside the stability pact. i would like to invite those who say they should not leave italy alone to visit, as i did, the cara di bari, the cara di crotone, the cara di mineo and to look into the eyes of women and men who have been suspended for months in limbo, women and men who have entered the relocation programme without knowing where they will be sent. i want you to look into the eyes of those mediterranean hope volunteers who are working on projects to build humanitarian corridors from below. this, to welcome, to show solidarity means not leaving italy alone, because i want not only to avoid death and shipwreck of men and women in the mediterranean, but also to avoid the shipwreck of an idea of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. if the ventotene manifesto were to be taken as a programme and a project for this europe, we might all agree.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has responded to its inability to cope with a large but not unsustainable number of migrants by reforming the common european asylum system and by giving money to those who agree to keep migrants outside european borders. we have heard president juncker say that italy cannot be left alone, we have heard that more must be done. as a citizen of italy, a member state which is under particular migratory pressure, i would have liked the proposal for the new dublin regulation, around which the whole of the common european asylum system revolves, to distribute responsibilities among all the member states and not merely to identify and penalise the countries at the forefront. in ignoring the need expressed by this parliament to establish a centralised european system for the examination of asylum applications, the will of the only institution elected by the citizens has been ignored. no permanent and automatic mechanism for redistributing applicants between member states has been provided for, irrespective of emergency situations, because the dublin reform proposal provides for a country to collapse. well, let's acknowledge this disunity before it's truly too late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate is surreal, it confirms that those who govern this europe, the european commission, are a few powerful powers and a few dangerous individuals. not a word about islamic extremism, not about isis, we have discovered that the enemy of europe and the world is russia, putin, the ongoing clandestine invasion must continue to be financed, turkey can safely continue to dialogue with europe and with the billions that the italians and europeans are giving it. i remind president juncker that, as he is talking, over 800 citizens have committed suicide in italy in recent years for economic reasons, and then to the right-wing and left-wing fanatics who are looking for populists, extremists and fascists everywhere and who believe that putin has blood on his hands, i reply with the words of the vicar of pope francis, monsignor khazen, who says that, with regard to syria and aleppo, this christmas will have another scent for the liberation of the city, people are joyful, optimistic and hopeful. so you are back on your feet, not least because you have little left to govern this european union which has become a madhouse.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the optimism of the president of the council and the president of the commission about the outcome of the next european council, nor do i congratulate myself on the results achieved on the redistribution of migrants on european soil, nor on the way in which the eu-turkey agreement has been implemented. i would remind you that the meagre results achieved so far on migration issues have been made possible by the european parliament's role as co-legislator, a role which we will defend against any attempt at an underground agreement. the voice of parliament cannot be ignored, and the resolution of this house on the holistic approach to migration must be the basis for discussion on the sustainable management of migration. solidarity is a fundamental principle of our system of government and not a mechanism to be triggered when a member state is overwhelmed. solidarity can never be flexible. finally, aleppo. this is the first time. we are waiting for a unanimous condemnation, followed by a final political solution to the massacres and a strategy for reconstruction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this parliament sends a clear message to the heads of state and government. the citizens want concrete and immediate answers. i should like to focus on the subject of investment, in particular the efsi which will be discussed tomorrow. europe has been waiting for a recovery worthy of the name for too many years, and it is precisely the lack of investment that is one of the main obstacles to its realization. the juncker plan implicitly recognises that in a global world where all the major players are supporting their economies, the european union must do so too, even if the figures on the ground are not sufficient to ensure the flow of investment needed to make the european union strong and competitive. the efsi was a good investment which brought some benefits to the territories. we must insist, increase the funds available and go to correct those aspects that have not worked. two main points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the geographical coverage, which needs to be extended, and to ensure synergy and coordination with the structural funds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of migration remains at the heart of the european council's discussions. european leaders should carefully reassess the implementation of the eu-turkey deal, which seems to me to have failed as a preventive measure, given the number of deaths in the mediterranean which has become the main channel for reaching europe again. i think it is also necessary to assess the progress made on the agreements signed with african countries. the issue of strengthening the european union's cooperation in the field of external security and defence must be addressed. it is essential to speed up the establishment of a european defence fund and the implementation of the european defence action plan. leaders need to tackle the pressing problem of youth unemployment by putting in place measures to improve the implementation of the youth guarantee and develop youth mobility. finally, i hope that the european union will condemn in no uncertain terms the indiscriminate bombing of aleppo. impunity for such crimes can no longer be tolerated and european leaders must act swiftly.
in writing. ‒ the report is a formal procedure which aims to enable poland to apply the insolvency procedure regulation. the commission notes that the restructuring plan for the bank of poland was approved by the council on 14 june 2015. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that poland also applies the european union's insolvency regulation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the zwiefka report on insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. this is a technical text which does not involve any substantial changes; it follows a request by poland to amend the lists in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 in order to adapt them to changes in its national law as a result of a substantial restructuring reform. the text approved today contains only three minor amendments, also of a technical nature, to the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote contains some unclear passages which i do not entirely agree with. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings includes annexes containing lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a substantial reform of its national restructuring law and requested to amend the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation. national procedures fall within the definition of 'insolvency proceedings' only if they are listed in annex a. the annexes may be amended only by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission has examined whether the application submitted by poland complies with the requirements of the regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and to the council to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is adapted to the current legal framework of the polish insolvency law. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not involve any substantial amendment of the regulation. however, it is felt that it needs three amendments of a technical nature. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aligns the date of entry into force of regulation (eu) 2015/848.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the amendment to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings, which replaces the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b. in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a substantial reform of its national law on restructuring, which would take effect from 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. according to the regulation, national procedures fall within the definition of 'insolvency proceedings' in the context of the regulation only if they are listed in annex a to the regulation. the commission has therefore submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council in order to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is adapted to the current legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation, as of its entry into force. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not involve any substantial amendment of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ mr zwiefka's report is not critical, since it is merely a recasting procedure which, however, requires the ordinary legislative procedure by virtue of the legal basis on which the original regulation was adopted, namely article 81 teu. the amendment will apply to annexes a and b of the insolvency procedure regulation adopted in 2015 and which will apply from 26 june 2017. the amendment of those annexes became necessary as poland launched a restructuring reform at national level in 2015: the commission has therefore requested the amendment of the annexes containing the definitions of insolvency proceedings to allow the application of the regulation in poland after the reform. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ abstention for this report which does not make any substantial amendment to the rules of procedure.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical measure which will not make substantial changes to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings, so i can only give my consent. following the entry into force of the regulation on 29 june 2015, poland has undertaken legal reforms as a whole which have led to a request to the commission for amendments to the lists in annexes a and b. this procedure is only possible by adopting a regulation under the ordinary legislative procedure, such as the one which has been introduced. this regulation aims to introduce important new and clarified rules on the determination of the court having jurisdiction to hear insolvency proceedings and, consequently, on the determination of the national law applicable to insolvency proceedings, and to extend the scope of the regulation to all insolvency proceedings. however, three new amendments were necessary: the first concerns the united kingdom, which has adopted the regulation since 1 september 2016. the second, on the other hand, allows ireland not to participate in the adoption, nor to be bound by it or subject to its application. thirdly, the application of the regulation is postponed from 26 june 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it is in line with the measures provided for in regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings which entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017, with the exception of the part concerning the system of interconnection of national insolvency registers, which will apply from 26 june 2019.
in writing. ‒ this regulation mainly contains two annexes for insolvency proceedings and for insolvency practitioners. in addition to purely technical issues, the question of poland is particular, which has requested an amendment of the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation in the light of a substantial reform of its national law on restructuring. under the regulation, a national procedure qualifies as 'insolvency proceedings' in the context of the regulation only if it is listed in annex a to the regulation. therefore, the commission has examined the request of poland as regards compliance with the requirements of the regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council in order to ensure that the scope of the revised regulation is adapted to the current legal framework of polish insolvency law. i am voting in favour of this text because the work done by the european institutions has shown itself to be attentive to european and national authorities in relation to insolvency proceedings, and therefore a step forward towards greater harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from the report on insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ mr zwiefka's work on the annexes to the insolvency procedure regulation makes it possible to introduce some technical changes which now make the implementation of the measure more effective. as with other texts drawn up by the committee on legal affairs, these measures can be of great help in advancing european integration and simplifying the economic and commercial possibilities for citizens, businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings, in view of the commission's proposal and the positive opinion of the rapporteur and the relevant parliamentary committees. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in particular, the two annexes to the regulation which list all the different insolvency procedures of the various member states falling within the scope of eu law will be amended. today's vote will ensure that european and national legislation is in perfect sync with the new polish legislation, which is essential for the functioning of the single market.
in writing. poland has announced a substantial reform of its national law on restructuring. on the basis of its statement, the commission examined the application for compliance with the requirements of the regulation and submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the recasting regulation will be adapted to the current legal framework of the polish insolvency legislation. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not involve any substantial amendment of the regulation. it is considered that it requires three technical amendments, the first two of which should reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal on the area of freedom, security and justice; the third amendment is based on the date of entry into force of the regulation amending regulation 848/2015. i think that the rapporteur's proposal at first reading should be supported and re-examined if the commission decides to amend or replace the proposal with a new text.
in writing. ‒ following a reform of polish national law in the field of restructuring, poland has requested the commission to amend annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings. since the commission has verified the conformity of the request from poland, which does not imply any substantial change in the regulation, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the colleague's proposal on the replacement of the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency administrators (annexes a and b to eu regulation 2015/848) and the technical amendments that this replacement entailed, as i take note of the change in restructuring law that affected poland in 2015 and understand the need for the polish state to have its national procedures included in the list of 'insolvency proceedings' provided for by the above-mentioned regulation. on the basis of the legislation in force, the amendment of the annexes to the regulation must be effected by the adoption of a regulation to be adopted under the ordinary procedure; in this case, the aim is not to amend the existing content of the regulation but only to make additions following the change in polish legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. i agree with the aim of the proposal and its content in general terms. i think it needs the three technical amendments. the first two amendments reflect the position of the united kingdom and ireland on the commission proposal under protocol (no 21) on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice. the third amendment aligns the date of entry into force of the amending regulation with that of regulation (eu) 2015/848.
in writing. ‒ the eu-uzbekistan agreement on textiles was opened a long time ago, but has been blocked for a long time because of the widespread use of child labour in uzbekistan. i think that the fact that children and adults were mobilized en masse during the cotton harvest season is an inhuman practice. it should be said in this sense that, although the uzbek authorities were reluctant to discuss the problem, the eu has been very committed over the years to combat this phenomenon and in fact in recent years the situation has improved a lot, as the country has decided to open up and cooperate with international institutions. the fact that the situation has improved considerably and that cooperation and dialogue have been established between uzbekistan and the european institutions are the reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i strongly supported the arena report approving the extension of the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement to the textile trade dimension. this is an important vote, which i have followed previously in the foreign affairs committee, and marks a crucial milestone in the process that since 2013 has seen the parliament and the international labour organization monitor the cotton harvest, with the permission of the uzbek authorities. the systematic use of child and forced labour has long been the condition that prevented the extension of the agreement in this area, but the joint work has allowed to establish, since october 2015, a substantial elimination of child labour and the presence of some progress, although still not sufficient, on the forced labour front. this is undoubtedly a success of european trade policy, an instrument which has been able to strengthen human rights in the central asian republic and to generate concrete progress in the agricultural labour market. but we must remain vigilant, carefully checking that the direction the new president will give the country is consistent with the path we have started.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement on bilateral trade in textile products is well structured and shareable, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ economic aid in exchange for democratic reforms and civil progress is one of the eu's most widely used instruments in its neighbourhood and partnership relations with third countries. this has often produced positive results for the citizens of both sides and has increased the range of influence of the european union's soft power. the republic of uzbekistan is a country which has embarked on the road which will lead it in the future to a modern form of democracy, which looks to the west and to the development of the rule of law, despite the still serious structural deficiencies, its own internal social problems, and the difficult relationship with some countries in the asian region. europe as a whole can look to the republic of uzbekistan as a potentially friendly country which we must support by enabling it to develop under appropriate conditions, gradually, and to gradually enter the area of free trade and common cooperation, in a manner consistent with the provisions of international agreements whose main aim remains the reduction and ultimately the elimination of poverty.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation in question, which approves the extension of the (already existing) economic partnership agreement with uzbekistan to the textile sector, recognising the considerable progress made in recent years by the former soviet union on the issue of child labour. the inclusion of another economic sector in the agreement provides further incentive for the uzbek authorities to engage in a nationwide awareness-raising campaign to eradicate child labour completely. in this sense, the uzbek government has shown openness in allowing the international labour organization to monitor the cotton harvest and in committing itself to the implementation of a national programme for decent work. i believe, however, that the union's assistance to uzbekistan should be more ambitious, including the liberation of the country from the cotton monoculture and the reduction of its dependence on exports by diversifying its economy.
in writing. ‒ until a few years ago, the "mass mobilization" of children and adults during the cotton harvest season, a key export commodity for the country, was a sad reality that the uzbek authorities were reluctant to discuss. in recent years, however, the country has decided to open up, to cooperate with international institutions and has initiated a strong policy of deterrence against the use of forced labour, especially child labour. the situation in uzbekistan has improved considerably, with forced labour now rare and child labour considered to be eradicated. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ while welcoming the conclusion of a pca protocol with the republic of uzbekistan, i agree with what has emerged and highlighted in the report. i have great respect for uzbekistan, which has the great confidence of the whole union, and it is for this very reason that the shortcomings it has raised in regard to working conditions must be addressed as soon as possible through cooperation to achieve more dignified conditions. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the cotonou agreement, including on the implementation of the cotonou agreement, and to provide information on the implementation of the cotonou agreement. the results obtained give hope of a near total elimination of such abuse within a few years, but the need to eradicate forced labour remains despite encouraging efforts being made in this direction. in line with this, the future uzbek president is invited to establish a new paradigm of human rights, while the commission and the european delegations in tashkent are also required to cooperate in the implementation of structural reforms such as the increase of the minimum wage and greater budget transparency in the textile sector, which is the one most taken into account by our companies to date.
in writing. ‒ i gave my favourable opinion to an amendment to the partnership agreement which aims to include certain tariff guarantees for the european textile industry. in the text approved, uzbekistan commits not to increase customs tariffs. it should also be noted that the country's working conditions have improved today, although not yet optimally, as confirmed by the international labour organization. the resolution also recognises the efforts of the uzbek government to pursue the elimination of forced child labour and hopes that this will be a positive signal of encouragement for further improvement actions and for the strengthening of cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the textiles protocol entails amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, by extending the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. i would remind you that the european parliament has approved an interim report, conditional on its approval on improving the human rights situation in uzbekistan, particularly in relation to child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. therefore, while welcoming the inclusion of textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) concluded between the country and the eu in 1999, i hope that the uzbek authorities will continue to commit themselves to ensuring human rights at work.
in writing. ‒ the inclusion of textiles in the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement is important as it promotes trade and competitiveness. it also strengthens the monitoring of forced labour in uzbekistan by international institutions. following ilo monitoring, the uzbek government has made several commitments to abolish forced labour. but i urge the eu not to let its guard down because forced labour is an unacceptable practice and contrary to european values of democracy and civil rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as the scourge of child labour has been largely eradicated as a result of the considerable efforts of the uzbek government. it is therefore desirable to encourage the efforts of the uzbek authorities by approving the textile protocol with uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank mrs marie arena for her excellent mediation work in following up the trade negotiations with uzbekistan. the final text can certainly be seen with satisfaction by the s&d group: i would like to stress in particular the inclusion of the requirement of compulsory respect for certain fundamental rights and labour, such as in the case of children. following the recent presidential elections in the country, this agreement can lay the foundations for a stronger eu role in calling for a significant opening-up in uzbekistan on the rule of law and the involvement of civil society; we will be vigilant as a parliament to ensure that this important partner for the eu keeps its commitments.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is extremely delicate and i find the debate we can have today extremely useful. the eu is certainly ready and able to open up the partnership to the textile sector as well. however, we must not forget that as the union we have committed ourselves to supporting political reforms first and foremost, in accordance with mutual determination and choice, just as we have repeatedly supported socioeconomic and educational improvements in uzbekistan. i shall vote in favour of the report because it rightly takes account of this complexity and commits the european parliament to request a suspension of the application of the agreement if the criteria we have jointly established on labour rights are not respected.
in writing. the european parliament hereby gives its consent to the amendment of the partnership agreement which aims to include tariff guarantees for european industry. in practical terms, uzbekistan is committed not to increase customs tariffs. the agreement was originally blocked due to some labour law deficiencies, and in the case of child labour, but in 2016, following a monitoring mission to monitor forced labour by the ilo, it was found that child labour was eliminated completely in the cotton harvest. the authorities have intervened through various measures, including after-school care, fines for offenders, and increased accountability of parents, teachers and farmers
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by my colleague on the draft council decision on the extension of the eu-republic of uzbekistan partnership agreement to the provisions on bilateral textile trade, as i believe that the efforts made by the uzbek authorities to abolish forced labour in uzbekistan can be considered relevant and sufficient to justify the conclusion of the agreement. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu-uzbekistan agreement on textiles was opened a long time ago, but has been blocked for a long time because of the widespread use of child labour in uzbekistan. i think that the fact that children and adults were mobilized en masse during the cotton harvest season is an inhuman practice. it should be said in this sense that, although the uzbek authorities were reluctant to discuss the problem, the eu has been very committed over the years to combat this phenomenon and in fact in recent years the situation has improved a lot, as the country has decided to open up and cooperate with international institutions. the fact that the situation has improved considerably and that cooperation and dialogue have been established between uzbekistan and the european institutions are the reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the non-legislative motion for a resolution on the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles. the text underlines the importance of the action taken in recent years by the uzbek government to authorize the ilo to monitor the cotton harvest and welcomes the country's commitment to the definition of the national programme for decent work. the vote by parliament in favour of the protocol to the partnership agreement is a direct consequence of these assessments. the central asian republic, however, has many problems, particularly those related to subtle forms of involuntary work, which would require profound changes in employment policies if they were to be eradicated. in the textile sector too, strong action is needed to ensure an increase in the wages of cotton pickers, mechanisation and greater budgetary transparency as regards the revenue from the harvest. these are revolutionary measures which the european union should encourage and contribute to the implementation of the structural reforms needed by uzbekistan through political dialogue and assistance programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution of the committee on international trade (inta) which accompanies the approval of the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol, as this agreement does not present any problems for our territories.
in writing. ‒ today's vote on the partnership and cooperation agreement is an important step forward in relations between the european union and uzbekistan. in recent years, thanks also to the support of international organisations such as the ilo, important progress has been made in combating and eradicating the scourge of forced labour, especially child labour. these developments in the country must necessarily continue until the complete end of this odious practice: i will continue to monitor the situation in the inta committee very closely. by voting in favour of this dossier we hope to send a concrete message of confidence to uzbekistan, hoping that we will soon be able to speak only of the past of the scourge of forced labour in this country.
in writing. ‒ the updating and renewal of the agreement with the republic of uzbekistan is a formal act of due diligence, which ensures its full implementation and which is expected to develop positively for both contracting parties in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report accompanying the economic partnership agreement with uzbekistan (extended to the textile sector) because it provides the commission with valuable ideas for improving the economic and social situation in the country of the former soviet union. cooperation between the international labour organization (ilo) and the uzbek government has gradually expanded, and in 2014 uzbekistan became the first central asian country to agree with the ilo on a national programme for decent work. awareness of forced labour in uzbekistan is still in its infancy, but ilo surveys indicate that workers mostly participate in cotton harvesting voluntarily and have the option to refuse to do so. the report calls on the commission and the european external action service to monitor the political transition in uzbekistan, informing parliament regularly, and encourages the uzbek government to work towards ratifying and effectively implementing all 27 core international conventions of the gsp+ trade incentive system, in order to be able to apply for gsp+ generalised tariff preferences.
in writing. ‒ until a few years ago, the "mass mobilization" of children and adults during the cotton harvest season, a key export commodity for the country, was a sad reality that the uzbek authorities were reluctant to discuss. in recent years, however, the country has decided to open up, to cooperate with international institutions and has initiated a strong policy of deterrence against the use of forced labour, especially child labour. the situation in uzbekistan has improved considerably, with forced labour now rare and child labour considered to be eradicated. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ cotton production is an important sector of trade between the union and uzbekistan. in this area, the european institutions have initiated political dialogue on sensitive issues such as human rights. the protocol represents the consolidation of a long process that began in 2011, when parliament made its approval of the protocol conditional on improving the human rights situation in uzbekistan, especially with regard to child labour and forced labour in cotton harvesting. thanks to the positive cooperation between the uzbek authorities, the eu and the international labour organisation (ilo), the country has made great progress in eradicating child labour through concrete reforms and the national decent work programme. the direction we have taken is the right one, but we still have a long way to go. the continuation of forced labour in the cotton harvest requires urgent reform of employment policies and continued commitment by the new government. in conclusion, i believe that this protocol confirms the eu's support for the democratic path the country has embarked upon. i hope that the new government of the republic of uzbekistan will take this important achievement as a starting point for its further fight against forced labour. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision to consolidate our trade relations with uzbekistan in an increasingly decisive manner, given the considerable potential it enjoys. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european community and the european free trade association. the commission will therefore endeavour to make trade free from quantitative restrictions, to allow the free transit of goods at market prices with a safeguard clause, and to prohibit or restrict imports, exports and transit where justified on grounds of public morality, public order or security. uzbekistan has a centuries-old tradition of cotton processing and is one of the main producers and exporters of this raw material, so european machine-fabrication companies will find new business opportunities in a textile market of certain long-term interest. in addition, the uzbek market could offer interesting opportunities to foreign companies producing high-tech equipment and machinery in the agri-food, metal-mechanical, automotive, agricultural machinery, steel and railway sectors. urban planning, environmental protection and the marketing of biodegradable and environmentally friendly consumer goods should not be underestimated. at present, although the uzbek market has considerable potential, it has a sporadic domestic presence in terms of foreign direct investment, which will nevertheless grow significantly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution accompanying the assent on the same subject.
in writing. ‒ the european trade policy has a twofold value: the first is purely economic, i.e. aimed at increasing opportunities for european enterprises. the second is purely social, that is to say, it is concerned with the promotion and protection of human rights in third countries. the agreement with uzbekistan is a clear example of this. in the light of the dramatic phenomenon of child labour in uzbekistan, in 2011 the european parliament at the instigation of our group refused to give its consent to the cotton protocol in the cooperation agreement with the country. this denial was a strong political signal for uzbekistan, with significant economic consequences since cotton is one of the country's major export products. uzbekistan has started to cooperate with the eu and the international labour organisation (ilo) as a result of this decision. although respect for human rights in uzbekistan still needs to be strengthened, the ilo has noted considerable progress in recent years, with the first being the definitive abolition of child labour. the priorities set by our group have therefore led the european union to achieve two extraordinary results: the opening of a new trade channel and, above all, respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, as a result of the considerable efforts of the uzbek government, the scourge of child labour has been largely eradicated. it is therefore desirable to encourage the efforts of the uzbek authorities by approving the textile protocol with uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because with this agreement the european parliament has demanded a lot from uzbekistan in terms of respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution tabled to the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement, because, after five years of postponement of the decision on the approval of the protocol, the uzbek government has finally shown that it has adopted action plans to change recruitment for cotton harvesting and has promoted major awareness-raising operations against child exploitation in cotton harvesting. i am very pleased with the measures taken by uzbekistan to try to ensure access to non-forced labour and the significant support that the eu and the international labour organisation have shown towards a government now ready to resolve this age-old issue. i am convinced that today we will be able to talk about new conditions for opening up new scenarios of close cooperation with uzbekistan and we will work together with the objective of building a civil society based on full respect for fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution but, as i have repeatedly stressed in the resolution, i remain of the opinion that this consent is to be linked to the constant monitoring of the effective eradication of the scourge of child labour and of efforts to combat forced labour. it is not enough to say that the textile sector, and in particular cotton production, is the main area of trade between the eu and uzbekistan. we must remain vigilant and not endorse practices that undermine the rights of workers. only then can we give our full support to what remains for now an agreement which expresses our will to support and encourage the steps already taken in this direction. this encouragement is all the more appropriate when we consider that it comes after the celebration of the 22nd anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between uzbekistan and the european union, which took place on 16 november 1994. however, in order for relations to continue with a steady improvement in political and social terms and increased trade, cooperation with the ilo remains essential for the achievement of the eu's common commercial policy objectives and the respect of european values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution tabled by my colleague as i take note of the cooperation between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation (ilo) which started in 2013 on monitoring the cotton harvesting sector in order to prevent the exploitation of child labour and to prevent the continuation of forced labour; this cooperation was underpinned in 2014 by the agreement reached by the ilo and the government of uzbekistan on a national programme for decent work and the gradual adoption by uzbekistan of work plans for the modification of the cotton harvesting recruitment rules. the policies implemented to date indicate that the objective of eradicating child labour has been achieved and that considerable progress has been made towards the prohibition of forced labour. i welcome the idea that the eu should maintain a high level of human rights monitoring in the country; i share the rapporteur's view that uzbekistan needs to move away from monoculture cotton and reduce its dependence on imports by diversifying domestic production, also with the support of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement referred to in the report was signed in 2012 by colombia and peru. the agreement includes an article allowing other andean community countries to join. in 2014, negotiations for the accession of ecuador were concluded. since i consider it to be a major help to include ecuador in the agreement as it is experiencing a very difficult economic situation, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the scholz report approving the protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, to take account of the accession of ecuador. the original agreement, signed in 2012, provides for the possibility for other andean community member countries to join in order to fully exploit the economic benefits derived from it. this is a very important opportunity, especially for a country like ecuador, which is facing a complex situation, with a 60% drop in oil prices, a revaluation of the dollar and the simultaneous devaluation of the currencies of other countries in the area, such as colombia. the general collapse in exports, which fell by 6.1%, has led to a sharp fall in revenues, which is likely to undermine the financial stability of the state itself. accession to the trade agreement will allow the latin american country to strengthen its economy by encouraging the adoption of more progressive social and environmental policies, while allowing the eu to regain its position in a region that is increasingly influenced by the asian and pacific states.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the proposal to extend to ecuador the existing agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, because this could damage our production system, already badly tested by the economic crisis and the crazy policies of the european union, which should instead do much more to protect our companies. for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which extends to ecuador the trade agreement concluded in 2012 with colombia and peru. the aim is to integrate the andean community into the global trading system by increasing trade and investment with the european union. economically, ecuador is facing a difficult situation. the commission notes that the ecuadorian authorities have not provided any evidence that the export of the product concerned to the union has been affected by the measures taken. the agreement will enable ecuador to pursue the new policy guidelines for the economic and social development of the country in a complex regional and international context. the obligation for the commission to inform parliament about its activities related to the implementation and monitoring of this agreement, in particular as regards the obligations of sustainable development, will contribute to the monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of european trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru was concluded in june 2012 and article 329 of the agreement provides for the possibility of accession by other andean community member countries. the european union and ecuador concluded accession negotiations on 17 july 2014. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the alleged violations of the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). on april 16, a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck the country, killing at least 673 people and injuring 27,732. the ecuadorian government estimates the cost of reconstruction at us$3 billion, or about 3.0% of gdp. a scenario in which ecuador does not enjoy the benefits of the trade agreement could have a strong negative impact on the country's economy. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru with a progressive and flexible implementation of the agreement, assisted by a preparatory approach from the commission, is therefore a positive step.
in writing. ‒ the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru represents a further step forward in relations between the union and the andean community member countries. ecuador is facing a difficult situation in the face of the collapse in oil prices, the devaluation of the currencies of the andean countries and, last but not least, the tragic earthquake that hit the country in april 2016. i believe that the rapid and complete entry into force and implementation of this agreement will enable ecuador to restart its economy and to pursue the new policy guidelines for incentives for sustainable economic and social development. i also believe that ecuador's accession to the agreement will give a new impetus to political and economic integration in the andean region and, more generally, to the strengthening of political dialogue with the eu. in particular, i hope that such dialogue can also extend to more sensitive issues, such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press, which have been severely restricted following the adoption of the communication law in june 2013. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the accession of ecuador is not only a step towards closer bilateral relations through greater political and economic integration, but also a further opening for the union to strengthen ties with further countries in the andean region. in principle, there was the agreement concluded between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, signed on 26 june 2012, which explicitly provides in article 326 for the accession of other south american states. the negotiations concluded with ecuador are therefore not surprising but encourage the promotion of policies for sustainable economic and social development along the lines of the plans adopted by colombia and peru for structural reforms. i hope that my vote in favour will lead to a brighter future for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ecuador's accession to the existing trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, as this is very important for the ecuadorian economy, whose products will be placed on the european market on an equal footing with those from colombia and peru. the agreement also extends the regional dimension between the andean countries with undeniable positive effects on their economies. for the european union, ecuador's accession also consolidates the european union's presence in latin america with clear economic and political advantages.
in writing. ‒ the rapid and full entry into force and implementation of this agreement will enable ecuador to pursue the new policy incentive orientations for the sustainable economic and social development of the country in a complex regional and international context. i therefore welcomed the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador and i hope that the monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of existing agreements will be a key priority of the common commercial policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted unanimously in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of the protocol of accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. the agreement will be provisionally applied from 1 january 2017, pending ratification by the national parliaments of each eu member state as well as ecuador, colombia and peru. an asymmetrical agreement, which provides for the liberalisation of 60% of tariff lines by ecuador and 95% by the european union, with a gradual reduction of duties over a period of 17 years, and which has the merit of aligning ecuador's situation with that of colombia and peru, also with regard to the preferences granted by the eu to the latter for banana exports, by removing the competitive disadvantage that has been occurring in this sector until now. the conclusion of the protocol, which will also remain available to bolivia if it wishes to join the agreement in the future, is an important step towards consolidating the regional integration of the andean community countries and a fundamental step forward in the wider context of strengthening trade and non-trade links between the eu and latin america.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal because i believe it is necessary to facilitate the early accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. i share the aim of the agreement which would allow ecuador to maintain preferential access to the european union market and would allow the two parties to develop even closer bilateral relations, giving further impetus to political and economic integration in the andean region and strengthening political dialogue based on respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i am against, extending the agreement to ecuador could increase exports of agricultural and textile products to europe which could penalise our production system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador, because this is a legal act necessary to enable the south american country to benefit from important trade advantages, such as a progressive opening of the markets for goods, services, public procurement, the abolition of most tariffs, a chapter on trade and sustainable development with ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection. this is a necessary support for a country which is suffering from a major crisis and which has recently experienced a terrible earthquake, which claimed more than 600 lives. i am convinced that this agreement will enable the two parties to develop even closer relations, facilitating the social and economic development of the country, but also the political dialogue between the eu and ecuador on important issues, first and foremost the protection of individual and social freedoms. i am therefore proud of the important contribution which parliament has made, by its official visit to ecuador, to the acceleration of the negotiations between the parties.
in writing. the report on the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement expresses the european parliament's favourable opinion on the accession of ecuador. this is a major step forward for the ecuadorian economy, which will see its products enter the european market alongside products from colombia and peru. it also aims at the gradual opening up of the markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment, and above all the abolition of most tariffs. the agreement also includes trade and sustainable development, including ambitious labour and environmental protection frameworks. it will enable the two sides to develop closer bilateral relations, giving a boost to political and economic integration in the region, and will offer the possibility of strengthening the political dialogue between the eu and ecuador. in view of the economic, political and social benefits of ecuador's accession to the free trade agreement, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-colombia and peru trade agreement (accession of ecuador). such agreement is crucial in strengthening the eu’s relations with strategic south american partners such as colombia, peru and ecuador. at the same time, the agreement proves beneficial to all people and countries involved, as it opens up to a progressive market of goods, services, government investment and abolition of most tariffs. most importantly, the agreement will further allow economic and political integration in the andean region, as well as enhancing cooperation in terms of democratic principles and fundamental rights. hence, the report is worth supporting, as all the actors involved will benefit from the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the entry into force of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia, peru and ecuador, on the other, will bring great economic benefits. in fact, ecuador is facing a difficult situation due to both the collapse in oil prices, by more than 60%, and the revaluation of the dollar and the devaluation of the currencies of other countries. in addition, the ecuadorian people were severely damaged by a 7.8% earthquake which killed 673 people and injured 27 732. i am therefore of the opinion that, as a politician, the entry into force of this trade agreement is very important for ecuador in the light of the above facts. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ ecuador is currently facing a very difficult economic situation due to many factors, including the devaluation of other neighbouring countries' currencies, the collapse in oil prices, the revaluation of the dollar and the reconstruction costs of around 3.0% of gdp following the earthquake that killed at least 673 people and injured nearly 28 000 people last april. the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru will enable ecuador to pursue further reforms in order to integrate into the world economy, consolidate growth, increase prosperity and consequently improve the living conditions of its citizens. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement which is the subject of the following report allows access to the fishing zones in the skagerrak for both swedish and danish vessels, as well as norwegian vessels. as it is a very important agreement, almost a historic event, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ many european maritime zones retain a tradition dating back to before the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and eezs, whereby fishermen operate in the waters where certain fish stocks and species are found, and follow them during migrations. the kattegat and skagerrak are typical examples of this condition; the european union is not a mere fishing community, but a community of fishermen who have been fishing together for centuries in the same waters. on 15 january 2015, a new agreement between the eu and norway was signed, replacing an earlier international treaty of 1966 between denmark, sweden and norway on access to the skagerrak fishing zones. it is of the utmost importance that these historical fishing rights are respected; i therefore decided to vote in favour of the recommendation presented to parliament today. the agreement guarantees the support of historical fishing rights in this area, is in line with the united nations convention on the law of the sea and related provisions, and is above all a useful instrument for the implementation of the reformed cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ the skagerrak and kattegat are two natural channels linking the north sea with the baltic sea. in these two arms of the sea, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together since the middle ages. i think it is important that these historical fishing rights are respected, even though norway is not a member state of the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this agreement, which is in line with the 1980 bilateral fisheries agreement, the un convention on the law of the sea and the objectives of the cfp. the agreement ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden comply with the laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources in the skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation approving the renewal of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing zones in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. in fact, an agreement between denmark, norway and sweden on reciprocal access to fishing zones in the skagerrak and kattegat has been in force since 1967. however, in the light of the most recent developments in international fisheries law and, in particular, following the adoption of the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, that agreement no longer complies with the current provisions of the law of the sea and therefore a new agreement has become necessary. the new agreement will continue to grant vessels from denmark, norway and sweden exclusive access to their respective waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of denmark (1973) and sweden (1995) to the eu, the european commission became responsible for managing the agreement on behalf of these two member states. this is a truly historic fisheries agreement: swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same fish stocks since at least the middle ages. norway has held formal negotiations with the european commission. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement, which guarantees sweden, denmark and norway continued reciprocal access to their respective waters in the skagerrak and kattegat, has the merit of regulating fisheries in the area through certain conservation measures and effective instruments for joint management. the agreement will also make it possible to have control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of coastal states, as is already the case for fisheries in the north sea. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters since at least the middle ages. the fact that two of the countries have become member states of the european union has not changed the principle that their fishermen should enjoy historical fishing rights in the skagerrak and kattegat. i think it is important that these historical fishing rights be respected: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore believe that the agreement under consideration is in line with these principles and useful for the implementation of the eu's common fisheries policy. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and norway to define as clearly as possible the mutual access to fishing zones in the skagerrak and kattegat. these are areas where the north sea waters mix with the less saline waters of the baltic sea, thus producing a favourable habitat for many marine species and making it a very fishery area. it is therefore essential to ensure exclusive access for danish, swedish and norwegian vessels to their respective waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. in addition, the continuity of mutual access to the other parties' respective waters in the skagerrak and kattegat must be affirmed and respected, while fully respecting the historical fishing rights in the above-mentioned areas (the first agreement between the three states sharing this area dates back to 1966 and comprised only three articles, the first of which defined the area in question, while the second defined the access rights and the desire to harmonise technical regulations).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement defining mutual access to fishing zones in the skagerrak and kattegat as it contributes to the shared regulation of this important sector in the territorial waters of denmark, sweden and norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the new agreement grants the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden exclusive access to their respective waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. it also guarantees the two member states and norway continued reciprocal access to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat, while allowing the fisheries in the area to be regulated by certain conservation and management measures.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour, it is important that certain historical fishing rights are respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing zones in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, because it is a vote that allows a secular practice of fisheries cooperation in force in the scandinavian countries long before the creation of the european community to continue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore wholeheartedly support the position unanimously expressed by the committee on fisheries and maritime affairs.
in writing. the emerging eu-norway agreement aims to define mutual access to fishing zones in the skagerrak and kattegat. the agreement guarantees that vessels from denmark, norway and sweden will have exclusive access to waters beyond 4 nautical miles and that the two member states and norway will continue to have reciprocal access to their respective waters, while respecting historical fishing rights in this area. fishermen do not usually fish in these waters, but they fish for certain fish stocks or species in the waters where these stocks or species are found. this is a tradition which predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and exclusive economic zones. in the light of the above, i think that this report should be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted positively on the report on the eu—norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak. on one hand, the report further enhances the relationship between flag and coastal states. at the same time, supporting the agreement represents ensuring reciprocal access by the scandinavian countries while procuring fishery conservation and efficient management. from the early years, fishermen have been able to enjoy fishing in kattegat and skagerrak. therefore, supporting the agreement represents respect for the historical rights to fish that fishermen have been enjoying since medieval times.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the replacement agreement on mutual access to fishing zones in the skagerrak and kattegat, signed on 15 january 2015, is in line with the united nations convention on the law of the sea and subsequent related provisions contained in other agreements. in addition, this agreement will, however, continue to grant vessels from denmark, norway and sweden access to their respective waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. the approval of this agreement allows denmark, sweden and norway reciprocal access to the skagerrak and kattegat and allows fisheries in the areas concerned to be regulated by applying certain conservation and management measures. in conclusion, this agreement between the eu and norway allows for control measures that are in line with those principles of jurisdiction of the coastal states, as already applied to fisheries in the north sea. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing zones in the skagerrak. the new agreement not only continues to guarantee sweden, denmark and norway the reciprocal exercise of fishing activities up to a distance of 4 nautical miles from their respective baselines, but also promotes fisheries conservation and management measures in the area and allows for control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of coastal states. this agreement is necessary following the accession of denmark and sweden to the european union in order to reflect new developments in international fisheries law.
in writing. ‒ the agreement which is the subject of the following report allows access to the fishing zones in the skagerrak for both swedish and danish vessels, as well as norwegian vessels. as it is a very important agreement, almost a historic event, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the dohrmann report, a text closely linked to parliament's recommendation on the approval of the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing zones in the skagerrak. the resolution reiterates the positive assessment of the agreement, which mutually guarantees continuity of access to the skagerrak fishing zones for vessels from denmark, sweden and norway, while allowing the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources. the text calls on the commission to submit to parliament and the council a full report on the implementation of the agreement and to keep parliament informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing zones in the skagerrak consistently stresses the 'reciprocity' of customs duties vis-à-vis norway. i am in favour of granting norway the historic right to fish in the baltic waters, where swedish and danish vessels also fish. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this agreement which guarantees reciprocal access for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources in the skagerrak. the resolution supports calls for full accountability and stresses the obligation of the commission and the council to keep the european parliament immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal, as required by the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report accompanying the council decision on a new agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing zones in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden. the report calls on the commission to submit to parliament and the council a comprehensive report on the implementation of the existing agreement before the opening of negotiations for its renewal. it also called on the commission to keep parliament immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal, recalling that its task is to ensure that customs duties on food and fishery products from the eu are not imposed in a way that contravenes the principles of free trade in food products, including fishery products.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of denmark (1973) and sweden (1995) to the eu, the european commission became responsible for managing the agreement on behalf of these two member states. this is a truly historic fisheries agreement: swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same fish stocks since at least the middle ages. norway has held formal negotiations with the european commission. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i share the view of the non-legislative resolution, since fishermen from denmark, sweden and norway have been fishing together in the skagerrak and kattegat for centuries. i am also firmly convinced that the agreement in question not only takes this into account by guaranteeing the aforementioned historical fishing rights but also ensures that appropriate measures are taken to manage the fishery in question. i therefore call on the commission to provide relevant information and data on the implementation of the agreement as soon as possible, especially in the light of the difficulties encountered as a result of the customs duties applied by the kingdom of norway on food products from the eu. they must be as much as possible in line with the agreement on the european economic area and certainly not in conflict with the principles of the free market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution (ini) accompanying the report on this subject adopted by the pech committee.
in writing. the eu's common fisheries policy provides a system for managing fish stocks in its waters, thereby supporting the historical rights of fishermen. i believe that the fact that two of the countries which signed the agreement have become member states has not changed the principle that the fishermen of the three countries, namely sweden, denmark and norway, should enjoy historical fishing rights in the skagerrak and kattegat. it is of the utmost importance that these historic fishing rights be respected. i therefore welcome this resolution which guarantees the three states continued reciprocal access to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat and at the same time allows fisheries in the area to be regulated by certain conservation and management measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the new agreement grants the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden exclusive access to their respective waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. it also guarantees the two member states and norway continued reciprocal access to each other's waters in the skagerrak and kattegat, while allowing the fisheries in the area to be regulated by certain conservation and management measures.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution to guarantee historic fishing rights and to confirm the 'reciprocal' nature of customs duties vis-à-vis norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu—norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak (resolution). voting positively means supporting the role of the commission to ensure that custom duties on food and fisheries products from the eu do not contradict the principles of free trade in terms of food and fishery products. at the same time, the agreement will ensure that suitable measures are taken for the purpose of both fishery management and conservation of the waters in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway protects the historical fishing rights of danish, norwegian and swedish fishermen in the waters of the kattegat and skagerrak and allows for the application of appropriate measures for the proper management of fisheries and conservation in those waters. a further reason why i voted in favour of this agreement is that it fully supports the implementation of the reformed system of fisheries management in the eu, which has been developed in accordance with the basic principles of the new fisheries policy (nfp). in conclusion, as a member of parliament, i would ask the commission and the council to keep parliament informed of the continuation of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing zones in the skagerrak. the report rightly stresses the importance of respect for historical fishing rights. for centuries, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in this area. finally, it stresses that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity and that, in the case of norway, customs duties on food products from the eu, including fishery products, must be in accordance with the agreement on the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns possible strategic cooperation between europol and georgia, including on the exchange of personal data. it should be noted that this year parliament approved the new europol regulation and also new regulations concerning the protection and exchange of personal data. when these regulations come into force in 2017, parliament will have a strengthened role, with the possibility of expressing an opinion and not just consent as is currently the case. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ georgia is a key partner of the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership. the moraes report, which i have supported today, endorses the agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and georgia, further strengthening ties with the country and enhancing the joint commitment to security and the fight against organised crime. the agreed text will in particular allow for a wider exchange of information on expertise, reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and training activities. cooperation will be strengthened on issues such as the fight against terrorism and organised crime, taking particular account of the fact that the former soviet republic is now a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against organised criminal groups. the agreement will also provide for the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol, which concerns the exchange of operational information but excludes the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol is a welcome step, which will help to strengthen cooperation in a difficult period in the history of the republic of georgia, in the context of improved strategic and operational cooperation between the member states of the european union and allied countries with a view to combating terrorism, mafias, smuggling and international crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which approves the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, particularly as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia will help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime. the terms of cooperation shall provide for the exchange of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods as well as support for individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation of the agency for the conclusion of international strategic cooperation agreements between europol and third countries, which will enter into force in 2017, provides for a new procedure in which the role of the parliament is strengthened. the new procedure provides for parliament to express an opinion and not simply give its consent as is the case at present. we are fully convinced of the importance of parliament's full involvement and have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ europol has taken on a key role in the fight against crossborder crime and terrorist organisations. it is therefore our duty to facilitate any strategic agreement which will help to increase its investigative effectiveness and its operational capabilities. i believe that strategic cooperation with georgia will be an essential resource for jointly addressing common challenges to security in europe, including terrorism, through the exchange of information, the establishment of contact points and training programmes. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the report, although i regret that the european parliament was not given a more decisive role in the negotiation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ on 26 january, the existence of an isis training camp was confirmed in the pankisi gorge, 160 km from tbilisi, an area considered a hotbed of instability and a recruitment centre for daesh itself. in fact, with the dissolution of the union of soviet socialist republics, pankisi in particular became ungovernable, and thus became a transit area for arms and chechen rebel groups adhering to a radical vision of islam. in the face of urgently needed action, i can only welcome and fully share the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and georgia, since it provides for the exchange of information on the forms of know-how and best practices to be used to develop effective strategies in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. it is intended to share strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of preventing crime. this is also accompanied by joint support in individual criminal investigations and the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement as the measure under consideration provides for important aspects of operational cooperation between georgia and the eu such as: the exchange of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods as well as support for individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol is crucial to preventing cross-border crime and supporting individual criminal investigations. in fact, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, more specifically because it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. the terms of cooperation shall provide for the exchange of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol, as it helps and strengthens the fight against terrorism and organised crime. georgia is becoming increasingly important in countering these phenomena, particularly as a transit country for foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organized crime groups.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i believe that it is useful to exchange operational, strategic and technical information between countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol in view of the need to accelerate judicial and police cooperation with this country, which has a key role in the fight against organised crime inside and outside the eu. in this vote parliament has expressed its willingness to move forward, but we have set precise conditions to the council and the commission, given the procedure adopted for the signing of the agreement which limits parliamentary scrutiny to simple consultation. we therefore call on the european commission to reassess the provisions of the agreement when the new europol legislation comes into force, and to submit a full assessment to the other institutions, allowing parliament to exercise the new powers that will come into force on 1 may 2017. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's anti-fraud strategy and to provide the necessary information to the georgian authorities.
in writing. the above mentioned agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol focuses on personal data, i.e. the exchange of information including expertise, general reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, forms of crime prevention and also support for individual criminal investigations. europol considers that georgia has an important role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as it is a transit country for so-called foreign fighters, but also a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in view of the reasons given in this report, i believe that the conclusion of the strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia is essential to help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. georgia is a fundamental partner of europol in terms of tackling terrorism and organised crime. for that reason, it is crucial to support the agreement in order to enhance operational cooperation in terms of exchange of personal data, information on crime-prevention methods, results of strategic analysis, and information on criminal investigation procedures. only by implementing these measures will europol be able to assist georgia in its fight against organised criminal groups and foreign fighters that use georgia as a transit country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i welcome the strengthening of strategic operational cooperation between georgia and europol. such cooperation shall cover the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information and, not least, the exchange of personal data. the flow of information above, if analyzed, may give an indication of possible terrorist activities or organized crime as georgia is configured as a country where the transit of foreign fighters is recorded and organized criminal groups proliferate. the international dimension of the fight against terrorism and organised crime makes me think that cooperation between the eu and georgia in this area of reference is valuable, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ georgia, in addition to being a country with which the european union has numerous links and exchanges, is one of the transit countries for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in order to increase effectiveness in preventing and combating terrorism and serious crime, the new agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol contains provisions on the provision of advice and support to individual criminal investigations and on the exchange of information which may include, for example, expertise, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods. i believe that europol can play a decisive role in supporting and strengthening the action of the competent authorities of the member states and mutual cooperation. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. in particular, it seems necessary for europol to deepen its relationship with georgia as it is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which by definition is a problem of international concern.
in writing. ‒ the following report concerns the mobilisation of the egf in respect of redundancies due to the serious economic situation of bosal s.a. the following company is active in the automotive, trailer and semi-trailer sector. as a result of the economic crisis in europe, the sector has been one of the most affected, mainly due to the increase in the production of motor vehicles in china and other asian countries. the comunidad valenciana in particular is one of the spanish autonomous communities which has suffered most from this situation. although i believe that the mobilisation of egf funds cannot be the solution to the many crises in enterprises, i voted in favour because it is right that the european union should provide its aid to enterprises and workers in particularly critical sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the economic crisis and the subsequent contraction in domestic demand in the member states had a severe impact on the union automotive market, which has witnessed a sharp decline in vehicle production in recent years. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the company. my vote in favour of the gonzález pons report is based on my agreement with the need to mobilise the egf, to the tune of eur 856 800, to provide assistance to the 250 workers laid off by bosal s.a. in spain, particularly in the region of valencia. this measure will provide a coordinated package of instruments comprising training and mobility allowances as well as start-up grants and training, retraining and vocational training programmes.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report authorising the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for an amount of eur 856 800 for 250 redundant workers in the car, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector in the comunidad valenciana region of spain. the egf remains a practical and indispensable instrument to support workers in productive sectors affected by major restructuring due to unrealistic production situations. it is important that the egf should become less and less bureaucratic and that its activation should be more streamlined and flexible, and i will continue to fight for this in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new economic and financial crisis of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market, updating their training and providing them with financial support at the same time. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution to workers in the comunidad valenciana automotive who have suffered serious injury as a result of these events.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the application was made by spain on behalf of comunidad valenciana automotive following the discontinuation of 250 jobs in the automotive manufacturing sector. i note that the eu lost almost half of its market share in the automotive industry between 2000 and 2015. in this context, i stress the importance of maintaining a solid industrial base for the automotive sector in europe, including through the export to third countries of a wider range of high-quality vehicles with sustainable technology. i believe that research, development and innovation are becoming increasingly important, especially in relation to the need to develop low-emission and energy-efficient cars, so that europe can remain competitive and boost employment. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions.
in writing. ‒ in spain, the decline in car production has caused a reduction in both the number of firms and jobs, and in the comunidad valenciana in particular, out of a total of 187 firms in the sector, 62 have ceased their activity in the period 2008-2014. for these reasons, the egf should be mobilised in support of 250 redundant workers. i am also in favour of the requests for egfs, although i am aware that it cannot be the instrument for resolving business crises. the european union's financial support to redundant workers should also be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a community solidarity instrument designed to protect workers who have lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies caused by structural changes in the economic fabric as a result of globalisation. the decision, for which i think i voted in favour, approves the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 856 800 for spain to protect 250 redundant workers. i believe that the spanish government's request to use the egf is well founded in the light of the data which confirm that the european automobile industry has lost considerable market share over the last decade, with inevitable repercussions on the local and regional economy of several member states. i hope that the funds provided by the european union will help to reintegrate the workers of the valencia region who were laid off after the bankruptcy and closure of the bosal company, which manufactures automobile components, into the labour market. i think it is particularly appropriate that the european institutions should show solidarity with the workers of the valencia region by providing funds which will enable the spanish authorities to provide them with personalised services, allowances and incentives.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report calling for the mobilisation of eur 856 800 for redundant workers in spain.
in writing. ‒ i come from a region where the automotive industry has been and is still very strong, so i am not new to the harmful effects of the crisis in the sector; i am therefore ineluctably moved to vote in favour of the report. we are all aware that the considerable loss of market shares by the union in the manufacture of cars, trailers and semi-trailers has led to 13 applications for egf assistance due to globalisation. in this context, the application submitted by spain on 21 june for support for 29 enterprises is accepted, given the need to lay off 250 workers, with a heavy impact on employment and on the local, regional and national economy. a contribution of eur 850 800, or 60% of the total costs, is requested. through this financial support, spain intends to implement 12 actions, of which 6 are personalised services aimed at a rapid reintegration into the labour market, while the remaining half is intended to cover allowances and incentives. since 71% of the 250 unemployed workers are over 45 and 50% of the total have no qualifications, spain needs to provide more effective training measures focused on professional licenses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request because i share the reasons for the crisis in the spanish automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. in the light of these considerations and because of the admissibility of spain's application, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund for redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of concrete aid for 250 redundant workers in the car, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector in the comunidad valenciana region of spain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application submitted by spain (egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automotive), because i believe that in the face of the crisis that is biting at the hips in southern europe, it is crucial that the eu gives all possible support to those who lose their jobs. the application submitted by spain is in fact a derogation from the rules laid down for the fund. but a political approach, not merely bureaucratic, has prevailed, giving a perspective to 250 workers with personal stories and hopes for a quality life, who will be provided with personalised services such as information sessions, career guidance, placement or promotion of entrepreneurship, allowances and incentives, travel and residence allowances. key interventions in an area with structural employment difficulties and heavily affected by the general crisis in the european automotive industry, with staggering numbers (62 companies ceased activity in the period 2008-14 out of a total of 187 companies active in the sector). the decision to orient retraining services towards those economic sectors (food, environment, catering) with the greatest employment opportunities is also justified.
in writing. the european fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. in november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain, which is eligible to support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal sa, an undertaking active in the automotive market. to match production capacity to demand and reduce costs, it first imposed reduced working hours on all staff, but failed to avoid bankruptcy. the amount of the support is eur 856 000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain because i am very bitter about the situation affecting 250 workers in the 29 companies in the 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers' sector in the comunidad valenciana region. in spain, the decline in car production has led to a significant reduction in the number of firms and the closure of many of them, with very serious repercussions on the local and regional economy, which has already been badly affected by the economic crisis. the workers who have been placed in redundancy as a result prove to be highly vulnerable, given their advanced age and lack of qualifications, and show a strong difficulty in lending themselves to any possible relocation. the mobilisation of the egf would therefore allow spain to implement different and personalised actions such as vocational guidance, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the provision of allowances and incentives for redundant workers, also in view of the fact that these actions do not receive support from other financial instruments of the european union, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ spain submitted an application in june to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in the region of comunidad valenciana in the economic sector referring to the 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers'. the company concerned is bosal s.a., which is principally active in the manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles. it should be noted that this is the 23rd request to mobilise the egf for the motor vehicle manufacturing sector, demonstrating a clear contraction in the sector at european level. in 2015, the eu-27 recorded a decrease in motor vehicle production of 0,5 million units compared to 2006, while world production increased by 31,1%. in spain, on the other hand, the decline in car production has caused a reduction in both the number of firms and the number of jobs, and in the comunidad valenciana in particular, out of a total of 187 firms in the sector, 62 have ceased their activity in the period 2008-2014. i am generally in favour of the requests for egfs, although i am aware that it cannot be the instrument for resolving business crises. however, as it is the only option on the table at the moment, i think it is right to support it.
in writing. ‒ the following report is part of the governance project of the fourth railway package and deals mainly with the normalisation of the accounts of railway companies in europe. the report proposes that the existing regulation be repealed, although a transitional period is granted for certain types of compensation and exceptions are introduced. i think that the need to reform the mechanism for standardisation of railway companies is clear, which is why i voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to express my abstention from the motion for a resolution tabled.
in writing. ‒ studies show that interoperability and rail safety are central elements of the sustainable development model for the europe of the future. to improve them, the european railway agency (era) was established by regulation (ec) no 881/2004 of 29 april 2004, with offices in lille and valenciennes (france). the agency shall promote the progressive harmonisation, registration and monitoring of technical specifications for interoperability (tsis) across the european rail system and the development of common safety objectives for european railways. although the era does not have autonomous decision-making powers, it contributes to drafting proposals for decisions for the european commission. regulation (ec) no 1335/2008 of 16 december 2008 has conferred new tasks on the era, which are related to the amendments to the railway safety directives (2004/r) and (2008/57/ec). now, with the adoption of the fourth railway package, the era's powers of investigation and audit in its fields of competence will finally be strengthened. this will help to avoid having 28 different systems for the type approval of trains: the agency will act as a single point of contact for issuing authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border operations and safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in different eu states.
in writing. ‒ the agreement reached at the second reading of the trilogue repeals regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. this repeal is part of the measures to liberalise the rail transport market adopted under the fourth railway package. the regulation in question authorised member states to compensate railway undertakings for the costs of obligations which undertakings in other transport sectors do not have to bear, but it was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market and when rail transport in europe was mainly developing within national borders, with integrated companies managing both rail services and rail infrastructure. at that time the aim of the regulation was to equalise railway undertakings with undertakings operating in other modes of transport as regards the costs incurred for social costs or externalities. the repeal was necessary because the regulation no longer complies with the current legal framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which forms part of the governance pillar of the fourth railway package, which provides for the standardisation of the accounts of railway companies in europe. the text provides for the repeal of regulation no 1192/69 on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which authorises member states to compensate railway undertakings for expenses arising from obligations which undertakings in other transport sectors are not required to bear.
in writing. ‒ the repeal of regulation (eec) no 1192/69 opens up additional railways to the single railway market and allows the end of discrimination suffered by european companies operating in the railway segment by those operating in other transport sectors. in view of the obsolescence of the above-mentioned regulation, i shall vote in favour of a measure representing the third pillar of the fourth railway package. the commission has therefore decided to normalize the accounts of railway undertakings in order to compensate for the payment of obligations which others, also in the field of transport, do not have to bear. these fall into 15 categories (classes) which define their specific scope and the criteria for calculating costs. overall, the charges are mainly special accident payments, pensions for railway workers who perform a very strenuous job, or costs related to level crossing facilities. in any case, it is necessary to take account of the historical moment in which regulation 1192/69 was developed, that is to say before the liberalisation of the market and, therefore, when rail transport operated mainly within national borders, so demonizing it would be a rather ignorant mistake, but today it has been markedly inadequate by progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure proposing to repeal council regulation 1192/69 laying down common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, as i share the need to adapt the legislation by updating it and eliminating possible discrimination between undertakings in the sector in this area.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which authorises member states to compensate railway undertakings for costs arising from obligations which undertakings in other transport sectors are not required to bear, no longer complies with the current legal framework. i therefore welcomed the proposal to repeal the regulation, which is also discriminatory. i agree, however, that a transitional period should be allowed for compensation for level crossing facilities (category iv) because some member states continue to use this regulation as the basis for such compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position because i consider that regulation no 1192/69 is obsolete and incompatible with the current body of eu legislation and should therefore be repealed.
in writing. ‒ this regulation importantly allows member states to compensate railway undertakings for any obligation that other transport modes do not have to support, this is very important as it allows for a much fairer market in the transportation sector. our ultimate goal must be to create and ensure the best and most competitive transport market, where each method of travel or transportation is on a level playing field – this legislative proposal, alongside the other proposals of the market pillar in the fourth railway package goes a long way to make this a reality. given the substantial change in regulation, there is a clear need for a transitional period so that the member states have time to adapt to the new rules regarding compensation. this transitional period is set until 31 december 2017 and i hope that this will give the member states enough time to adapt their national legislation.
in writing. in conjunction with the fourth railway package, it is proposed to implement several legislative procedures, including the repeal of regulation no 69/1192 on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which provides member states with the possibility of being able to offset the payment of obligations incurred by undertakings operating in other sectors; proposes to amend directive (eu) no 34/2012 establishing a single european railway area with regard to the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and the governance of railway infrastructure; and finally, it analyses the amendment of regulation no 1370/2007 with regard to the opening of the market for national rail passenger services. the report recommends that the commission's proposal for the repeal of the regulation, with the exception of the rules applying to the normalisation of accounts for category iv cases, be followed, that the council's position which appears to be in line with the agreement reached during the negotiations be followed and that the approval be without amendments.
in writing. ‒ today's vote repeals an earlier regulation on state aid to railway undertakings. this regulation, which was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market, no longer complies with the current legal framework and discriminates between the railway undertakings listed in it and those excluded. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of its repeal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to ensure better access to the railway market in all member states in order to increase competition, choice and quality of services for the benefit of passengers. rail transport should also be revitalised in view of its contribution to sustainable mobility in our societies. the review of the rules will make it easier for new operators to enter the market and offer their services efficiently to travellers. the results should be in greater choice, cheaper fares and improved quality for the benefit of passengers. calls for tender will become the rule for public service contracts, while direct award will continue to be allowed where it improves the quality of service or cost efficiency. the inclusion in the contracts of efficiency and quality objectives, which include punctuality and frequency of trains, is also positive. the reform will help to strengthen railway undertakings so that they have equal access to tracks and stations.
in writing. ‒ the following report is part of the governance project of the fourth railway package and is mainly concerned with fostering market opening in rail transport. although i understand the strong need to introduce rules to encourage greater openness in the railway market, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal to reject the council's position because i think that certain aspects which are very important to me are being neglected. one of them is the introduction of too many exceptions and exemptions in public service contracts, which are detrimental to increased competition. i also think that very sensitive social issues such as the transfer of staff are not being dealt with adequately.
in writing. ‒ i intend to support the motion for a resolution tabled.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the fourth railway package and the strengthening of the era's powers of investigation and audit in its fields of competence will help to harmonise the trans-european transport and rail networks. we will no longer have 28 different systems for the approval of trains: the agency will act as a single point of contact for issuing authorisations for vehicles intended for cross-border operations and safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in different eu states. the adoption of the regulation will also increase the competitive pressure on national transport agencies, with the hope that this will lead to an increase in service quality and cost optimisation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement reached in the trilogue at second reading amends regulation no 1370/2007 on public passenger transport services by road and rail. this amendment concerns the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and aims to improve the quality of the services offered and to increase operational efficiency. this should increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in comparison with other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. the amendment introduces mandatory competitive tendering procedures for public service contracts in order to intensify the competitive pressure on national railway markets. these measures are accompanied by provisions to ensure favourable framework conditions for competitive tendering procedures, including rules on access to rolling stock.
in writing. ‒ the report is part of the liberalization of services in europe, which unfortunately has not always had the positive effects expected. all too often, in order to eliminate historical monopolies, savage liberalizations have been carried out which have had the sole purpose of favouring industry at the expense of the quality of services, social protection and public service obligations. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in approving the measure under consideration, i believe that competition is poised to increase the quality, volume and efficiency of transport systems by preserving and giving new impetus to already excellent structures. the main aim is to introduce three substantial innovations: first, the competent authorities will have to clearly define the specifics of the public service obligations in the provision of services and in a manner consistent with the stated political obligations. in addition, public service operators will be required to comply with applicable obligations in the field of social and labour law. finally, public service contracts will be awarded through competitive tendering procedures, although exceptions may be made for direct or simplified procedures. this will increase the efficiency and attractiveness of the sector, leading to improved quality and thus to greater railway development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it aims to increase competition in the rail transport sector by introducing specific improvement measures. it is important, however, that competition should not be an end in itself but rather a means of gradually increasing the quality, volume and efficiency of passenger transport services. the existing efficient structures should therefore be maintained and should not lose their efficiency as a result of the new regulation. it is important that the european union should make greater efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of rail passenger services.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to promote their operational efficiency. this should increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in comparison with other modes of transport and further develop the single european railway area. i therefore welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce compulsory competitive tendering procedures for public service contracts in order to intensify the competitive pressure on national railway markets. i would, however, like to stress that public service operators will have to comply with the applicable obligations in the field of social and labour law laid down by union law, national law or collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ this important proposal introduces mandatory competitive tendering for public service contracts in order to intensify the competitiveness of member states’ railway markets. the aim is to increase efficiency and to improve the quality of rail passenger services. in more detail this proposal introduces extra obligations on psos in public passenger transport, that authorities ensure related compensation of net financial effects of public service, that all operators fulfil obligations in social and labour law. it is also important that the proposal includes that public service operators and infrastructure managers will be under obligation to provide information that is essential for the tendering process, including information on passenger demand, fares, costs and revenues. this proposal should provide for a more open, entry-free and competitive market, while ensuring the legitimate protection of confidential business information.
in writing. the parliament's report is in line with the commission's proposal on improving competition in rail transport, competition aimed at increasing the quality and efficiency of passenger transport services. the new rules are intended to optimise the quality of rail passenger services and operational efficiency, and to increase competitiveness in relation to other transport services, thus strengthening the single european railway area. it is therefore proposed to introduce compulsory competitive tendering procedures for public service contracts in order to ensure favourable framework conditions. in addition, this proposal is closely linked to the subsequent report on the establishment of a single european railway area, which discusses free access rights for companies and improves the provisions on infrastructure management. in view of both recommendations, which are aimed at the same result, i vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is a key step in the development of european transport that the rail sector now has a community regulatory framework to facilitate its competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the new regulation provides for the progressive opening of national rail passenger transport markets: the competent authorities will henceforth be required to award public service contracts by means of open competitive tendering procedures open to all railway undertakings. in this connection, clearer rules are provided for the definition of public service obligations and their scope and provisions on the protection of workers in the event of a change of operator. in view of the expected positive effects on the competitiveness and sustainability of the railway sector and the resulting boost to economic growth, i have decided to vote in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this regulation and i believe that the whole railway package is a great step forward towards european integration and for the improvement of the rights and services of european citizens. mobility means competitiveness and the liberalisation of rail services will enable our citizens to be more competitive and to have a more efficient rail transport system. this will enable railway companies from other countries to step in and invest in areas neglected by italian companies, to enter into agreements with local authorities and to hire staff on the spot. finally, the railways will not be the monopoly of a company that neglects remote areas, where it is not profitable for them to invest. i really hope that liberalization will not only apply to industry but also to the public, freeing them from the constraints of old and inefficient rail services in favour of more modern and truly european transport services.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the so-called fourth railway package for the reasons which have been well explained by my colleagues in the group and because i fully share the views expressed on this matter by the european transport workers' federation. i believe that facilitating a process of railway liberalization without providing any guarantees to workers means two things: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in italy we have a clear idea of what this means in the privatization of rail transport. in order to defend the rights of workers, in order to defend the safety of passengers, i firmly reiterate my vote against the fourth railway package.
in writing. ‒ the following report is part of the liberalisation of services in europe, some steps to promote competition for international transport have already been taken, now what is proposed is to apply the same rules for national markets. while the liberalization of services is certainly a positive element, certain considerations should not be overlooked. experience shows that in many cases excessive liberalization aimed at eliminating monopolies has had negative effects, and italy is a clear example of this. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ to follow up on the commitment to create a single market for rail transport services, it is necessary to establish a common regulatory framework for railway safety. member states have developed safety rules and standards which are essentially national in scope, based on national technical and operational concepts, including the issuing of safety certificates by national authorities. what is needed now is a single safety certificate for the european union and a common safety policy also in the railway sector. strengthening the era by making it responsible for issuing safety certificates to railway undertakings operating in more than one member state would be a significant step forward in improving the safety culture and reporting of certain events by railway undertakings and network operators, as well as in the overall harmonisation and efficiency of the trans-european transport network. an important part of the mobility of european citizens and of environmentally and socially sustainable development depends on the safety and efficiency of european railways.
in writing. ‒ the agreement reached in the trilogue at second reading amends directive 2012/34/eu on the single european railway area. the amendment aims, firstly, to open up the market for national rail passenger services with the aim of increasing competitive pressure on national rail markets with a view to increasing the quantity and improving the quality of passenger services. secondly, to improve the governance of the infrastructure manager, with the aim of ensuring equal access to infrastructure. in this respect, it provides for the elimination of conflicts of interest affecting the decisions of the infrastructure manager regarding market access and the elimination of cross-subsidisation possibilities between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, which exist in integrated structures. the amendments also aim to strengthen coordination between infrastructure managers and railway operators in order to better respond to market needs and to enhance cross-border cooperation between infrastructure managers.
in writing. ‒ the report is part of the liberalization of services in europe, which unfortunately has not always had the positive effects expected. all too often, in order to eliminate historical monopolies, savage liberalizations have been carried out which have had the sole purpose of favouring industry at the expense of the quality of services, social protection and public service obligations. m5s europe had supported the retention of internal and external reciprocity clauses in the trilogue meetings, but these were not included in the final negotiated text. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ in line with the vision of europe that i have dreamed of since i was a boy, i am voting in favour of this measure as it is crucial to achieving a fully integrated union for rail transport. it must also be an example of excellence in terms of efficiency in the provision of its services and of positive economic and financial indicators. in order to achieve this, the aim is to open up the market by increasing competition in order to improve the efficiency of public financing and the quality of the whole sector, and to implement governance policies that balance passenger rights with the strengthening of social provisions. in this context, it is envisaged to introduce a global ticketing system to enable more efficient multimodal and cross-border passenger transport; it is also essential to clarify the role of the european network of infrastructure managers by including mechanisms to ensure the evaluation of their performance. the ambitious objective is to ensure equal access to infrastructure with as little conflict of interest as possible. this is a significant step towards the single railway market in which state railways will play a leading role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure which has as its general objective the creation of a single european railway area. the main aspects of the proposal which i support are: opening up the market and public service contracts through a more balanced approach; better governance of the railway sector; greater protection of passenger rights through the creation of a global ticketing system; strengthening of social provisions and clarification of the role of the european network among infrastructure managers.
in writing. ‒ the governance directive aims at opening up the market for national rail passenger services, with the aim of intensifying competitive pressure on national rail markets in order to increase the quantity and improve the quality of passenger services. i believe that such an improvement in the governance of the infrastructure manager, with the aim of ensuring equal access, can realistically increase competition and ensure financial transparency and fair financial conditions. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that increased competition will make the railway sector more attractive, making it more responsive to customer needs, and will increase the demand for trained railway workers, thus creating new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the establishment of a single european railway area is important because it promotes international transport, improves competitiveness and infrastructure management, and ensures equal access and overcoming conflicts of interest. for these reasons, which are fundamental to the future of rail transport, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this important proposal on opening up the market for domestic passenger rail services – this proposal has the very important objective of ensuring equal access to infrastructure, which will in turn serve to increase competitiveness and the efficiency of domestic rail services. i welcome the special rules set up to govern the access of high-speed passenger services to the eu rail infrastructure and the objective to developing the market for high-speed passenger services and promoting its competitiveness. i also welcome the strengthening of the role of the european network of infrastructure managers and the including mechanisms to ensure the benchmarking of their performance. another important aspect of this proposal is a cooperation mechanism for the coordination of international rail services or bi-national infrastructure being set up, as it should make cross-border cooperation and services more efficient and effective. lastly, i support that the development of common information and through—ticketing systems was put forward as a priority. this is very important in order to facilitate more efficient cross-border passenger transport.
in writing. i would like to thank mr sassoli for his long work on this important dossier, which envisages the creation of a single european railway area. the aim of this proposal is to open up the market for national passenger transport services by intensifying competition on railway markets and increasing the quality and quantity of passenger transport services and improving the efficiency of public financing of services. it also aims to optimise infrastructure management by removing conflicts of interest in market access, and to increase coordination between infrastructure managers and railway operators so as to respond more efficiently to market needs, and to strengthen cooperation between operators. as a result, a market opening will begin which will increase competition, ensure financial transparency and ensure that productivity and efficiency lead to increased investment in rail transport infrastructure. finally, the system focuses on the needs of customers and skilled workers, and on meeting climate change objectives. i am voting in favour of this report, which is of strategic importance for this sector and for our citizens, as we are always striving for a more united and competitive european union.
in writing. ‒ the overall objective of the fourth railway package is to improve the efficiency and quality of rail services by removing all legal, institutional and technical obstacles and promoting the competitiveness of the sector, with a view to further developing the single european railway area. this new proposal includes a series of measures aimed at making european railways more attractive, innovative and competitive, as well as ensuring greater transparency and fairer financial conditions. i hope that the new rules will also help to make the railway sector more responsive to customer needs and to create new jobs through an increase in the demand for skilled workers. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ rail infrastructure is the backbone of our transport system. the harmonization of national laws, regulations and administrative provisions has become increasingly important. any legislative measure aimed at a greater integration of the european railway system is, in my view, a benefit for our production system and for our citizens. the package provides for the liberalisation of many rail services, both long-distance and high-speed, while also addressing social issues through the certification of on-board staff and compliance with the requirements of good repute for the maintenance of a railway licence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this regulation because ports are indeed the entry and transit routes for 96 per cent of all goods in the european union and it was really urgent that they should be regulated by rules which ensure efficiency and transparency. they are also the workplace of almost half a million people, numbers that could grow if there were more investment and more competitiveness. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment. maritime transport is absolutely central: the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. making ports more competitive means lowering the price of many goods. port policies play a decisive role in achieving these territorial cohesion objectives, which in many regions of europe are still far from being achieved.
in writing. ‒ the following report is concerned with establishing a common regulation at community level for port services. the most important points, which i agree with, are mainly the introduction of rules on staff training and on social rights and the exclusion of children, on whom the application of bureaucratic and administrative burdens could have very negative consequences. i also think it is essential to make it clear how public funds and state aid are used. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this measure which provides for the liberalisation of typical sectors of port operations, according to principles similar to those contained in the services directive, the famous bolkestein, which has caused so much damage to our local bathing operators. i am against measures which are imposed from above, such as this regulation, on entire categories of workers whose jobs are at risk. i will always stand with our local operators, against to defend our territories against the advance of the multinationals. for these reasons i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ modernising port services and facilities is a key element in contributing to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t, the trans-european transport networks, by defining a framework that will improve the efficiency of all ports and help them to cope with changing requirements in the logistics and transport sectors. an important condition for fair competition between ports on equal terms is a clear framework on state aid rules. the commission is currently engaged in the review of the scope of the block exemption regulation to include port infrastructure criteria by december 2018. it is important that the regulatory framework is fair, transparent and understandable so as not to increase the gap between ports in southern and northern europe and to optimise its harmonisation and overall functioning.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the regulation establishing a regulatory framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. the objective of the regulation is to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by establishing a framework to improve the efficiency of all ports and help them to cope with changing logistics and transport requirements. for this reason, it also includes the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract investment in ports. since it covers only port services offered directly to users, dredging is excluded from the list of services, as it is not a service offered to individual users but maintenance work to ensure the accessibility of the port. the regulation will apply to all maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will avoid imposing additional burdens on ports that are already functioning well, while creating the conditions to enable other ports to address their structural problems.
in writing. ‒ the regulation in question aims to establish a common framework for regulating port services in europe. the report highlights the positive aspects of the rules on training and social rights, financial transparency in the case of public funds and state aid, and the exclusion of small ports from the application of additional bureaucratic and administrative burdens. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ports of the european union play a key role in the functioning of the internal market, facilitating trade between member states and contributing to employment, investment and gdp growth. however, not all ports in the trans-european transport network (ten-t) offer high-quality services and a governance framework that is sufficiently attractive to investors. i believe that in order to make the market for port services more efficient and competitive, it is necessary to reduce restrictions on market access, to impose minimum requirements on service providers and to increase transparency on port financing. i also believe that it is essential that member states and port authorities should ensure that public funding for port infrastructure is more closely monitored in order to avoid unfair competition. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe it is essential to introduce a stable legal framework capable of guaranteeing legal certainty and ensuring the development and creation of jobs while maintaining the heterogeneity of the organizations of the port sector.
in writing. ‒ our wonderful country, with its 57 000 km of coastline, is a major port of call. i therefore vote in favour of this report, since it will lead to much better results in terms of efficiency, competitiveness and transparency. the drafting of the measure was a long process, particularly for the italian delegation with regard to the provisions concerning the compulsory nature of the social clause and amendments relating to pilotage and mooring. overall, we are satisfied with the final text, as it provides for the freedom to provide services in the light of the minimum requirements, such as professional qualifications and equipment, thus allowing further development of the sector. it will also be possible to limit the number of providers of the services themselves and, jointly, member states will be able to impose public service obligations under specific conditions. these aspects will modernise port services and operations, opening up interesting investment scenarios. this is accompanied by measures to ensure the essential financial transparency of ports and related public funds, including the establishment of consultation systems between all parties and supervisory bodies with control functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it provides for a major reorganisation of the rules relating to the ports sector, with measures for the free provision of services against minimum requirements, the possibility of limiting the number of providers of port services, the possibility for member states to impose public service obligations under certain conditions. the proposal also contains provisions on financial transparency to demonstrate the allocation of public funds, the non-arbitrariness of prices set in the presence of monopolies and the transparency of infrastructure charges. finally, it aims to establish a system of consultation of all interested parties and independent supervisory bodies with monitoring functions.
in writing. ‒ ports can contribute to the long-term competitiveness of european industries on world markets, while ensuring added value and employment in all coastal regions of the union. i therefore believe that we need to address the current inefficiencies in the supply chain and sustainable transport. i believe that the port management body must have the necessary autonomy to act in accordance with its economic strategy, while respecting certain fundamental principles. i welcomed the call to the committee on social dialogue in the port sector to identify guidelines for training requirements to prevent accidents and to ensure the highest level of safety and health of port workers. this will help to create legal certainty for ports and have a positive impact on the proper functioning of the ten-t network.
in writing. ‒ the trans-european transport network (ten-t), which includes over 300 ports in the union, handles 96% of all goods, 93% of all passenger traffic on ships and over 65% of all goods imported into our continent each year. the regulation which was approved by a large majority in the european parliament today proposes a comprehensive reorganization of the european regulatory framework in the port sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port authorities are able to comply with the requirements of the directive. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in this way, after 15 years of lengthy negotiations, it has finally been possible to make a step forward towards the definition of a coordinated and more competitive european policy in the port services sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal because i believe that it is necessary to promote a more efficient operation of the trans-european transport network. i also think that the objectives of the proposal to start a process of modernising port services and operations and to help create new conditions to attract investment in ports are acceptable.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because there is a real risk of creating very damaging effects on the historical local operators who have been providing certain services in our ports for decades, if not in some cases for centuries.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on market access for port services and financial transparency of ports to create a policy framework to increase the efficiency of ports, allowing them to adapt to changes in the logistics and transport sectors, with the aim of achieving more efficient, sustainable and interconnected operation. the main aim is to modernise port operations services, develop appropriate standards to encourage investment in ports and combat potential market abuse. the report calls for greater transparency in the financial sector and in the relationship between member states, ports and port services, using available funds more efficiently. the proposed legislation will be implemented in all seaports in the ten-t guidelines, will avoid imposing additional burdens on existing ports and will enable other ports to address their structural problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports. the proposal positively aims to implement a more efficient, interconnected, and sustainable functioning of the ten-t through the improvement of performance of ports. in the long run, the agreement seems capable of modernising port services and operations as well as developing conditions able to attract potential investment in ports. furthermore, supporting the proposal would result in increasing efficiency of port services by countering weak competitive pressure and market abuses. without further ado, the proposal will have a positive impact on different sectors of society and the economy.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is a major european institution which acts as the external and independent auditor of the union's accounts. established in 1977, it became a full eu institution only in 1993 and has continued to provide its support for improving the management of the community budget. it is composed of one member from each member state, each of whom is appointed by the council after consulting parliament and serves for six years. on this occasion parliament was asked to give its opinion on the appointment of juhan parts. i have taken note of the contents of the report of the committee on budgetary control and following the instructions of my political group, the s&d group, i have voted in secret on the name proposed.
in writing. ‒ i do not doubt the professional capacity of this candidate, but i do not have enough evidence to give him my full support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ we believe that juhan parts has all the qualities and skills required to fulfil the role to which it is appointed, and to assume the burdens and honours that such acceptance entails.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the appointment of former estonian minister juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. in his career, he has gained considerable professional experience in the fields of public finance, budget planning, management control and audit. as deputy secretary-general of the ministry of justice (1992-1998), he was responsible for the administration of justice at the civil service level. the president of the republic shall be elected by the national assembly. later, as a member of the estonian court of auditors (1998-2002), he was responsible for external audit tasks in estonia. the main task during this period was to transform the court into a modern and effective audit organisation that complied with international audit standards (for financial controls, compliance and management controls). that is why i voted in favour of your nomination.
in writing. ‒ once again, i found that there was a lack of 'gender parity' in the candidates presented in 2016, all men, and i voted against the nomination of the estonian candidate, who, moreover, has a purely political background. i strongly believe that the member states and the council should give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate juhan parts on his election as a member of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i agree that the candidate, juhan parts, has all the necessary qualifications to fill a role within the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it has become necessary to appoint a new member of the court of auditors. the procedure provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external audit institutions in their respective states or who possess specific qualifications for this function and who must offer all guarantees of independence. the council, after consulting the european parliament, which is not bound by the treaty, shall adopt the list of members, on a proposal from each member state. the estonian candidate, currently a member of the estonian parliament, has a purely political background. that is why i thought it appropriate to vote against. the lack of a certain 'gender parity' in the candidates presented in 2016 also remains. the court of auditors is already showing a rather marked imbalance and i think that the member states and the council should give a signal to promote gender equality in all institutions and at all levels. it should also be remembered that parliament's vote is not binding and this has caused friction between parliament and the council in the past. there is no real democratic control in the choice of candidates and the appointment is in practice purely 'political'.
in writing. ‒ after the liquidation of the former ecsc, a liquidation mechanism was established which is still in use today. the report deals with the following mechanism, which has been modified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, in the steel industry in europe there are plants which are completely out of line and which should be dismantled. the same applies to coal, and to this must be added the respect for european climate policies. these are the reasons why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report under vote contains unclear passages which could open the door to future criticism, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution on the research fund for coal and steel because the proposal for a decision does not open up any room for a different use of this fund, which the current industrial context makes more and more necessary. the coal and steel research fund should now help to solve the industrial problems that have been dragging the eu down for decades. the 5 star movement calls for a rethink of the overall approach: the 2002 scenario of the ecsc's liquidation is no longer tenable, so we cannot continue with 'business as usual'. even within the current legal constraints on the management of funds, we believe that research must send a clear signal to these industries. for steel, the social and environmental impact, both on workers and on local communities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research programmes are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. their only rational horizon is dismantling. for coal, these concerns are compounded by respect for climate policy objectives. m5s would have liked a more in-depth discussion on the proceeds of the liquidation and calls for a bold use of the proceeds to ensure that they really help solve longstanding problems.
in writing. ‒ on 9 may 1950, robert schuman delivered the famous speech which would lead to the creation of the ecsc (european coal and steel community) the following year. since then, europe has supported research in this field, the sharing of resources and the exchange of knowledge. the ecsc assets and related interests, which were terminated in 2002, were placed in a sector-specific research fund which produces funding of around eur 50 million each year with a breakdown of 72.8% for steel and 27.2% for coal. it brings together partners from academia, industry, smes and public institutions. we must now find the most appropriate legal formula to enable the fund to continue its activities, supporting research in this field and directing it in a fair and effective way.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which aligns the rules of the 'coal and steel research fund' with those of horizon 2020, amending the legal basis. the research fund for coal and steel is complementary to and managed independently of horizon 2020. it provides around eur 50 million in funding for r & d and innovation in both the coal and steel sectors each year (with a breakdown of 72.8% for steel and 27.2% for coal). the purpose of the amendment is to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and a proportionate alignment with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020. in addition, this amendment will ensure that the programme is managed by the commission with due transparency and in line with the commission's rules on expert groups.
in writing. the decision makes slight changes to the now conventional mechanism of using the financial proceeds of the funds left over after the liquidation of the former ecsc in 2002 for research projects. the funds used annually are approximately eur 50 million. we are for a rethinking of the business as usual model, facing "hard truths" in these industrial sectors. in steel, the social and environmental impact, both on workers and on local communities, as there are still plants in europe that are completely out of line and should no longer be the subject of official aid, much less for research. their only reasonable horizon is dismantling. for coal, the same concerns are compounded by respect for climate policy objectives. we want an in-depth discussion of the funds and proceeds of the liquidation and a courageous use of them so that they really help to solve these legacy problems. for these reasons, i voted against, together with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to amend the legal basis of the research fund for coal and steel to bring its rules more in line with horizon 2020 programming. this report also shows that the european commission has been given full powers to manage the fund at the expense of the member states. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ coal and steel are symbolic materials for the union. it is also the product of what was the ecsc in the first place, and these materials play a key role in the overall european industry. where there is a strong desire to achieve and extend this objective, it is a matter of priority to amend the legal basis of the research programme itself following the periodic review of its management rules, and i therefore support this report. it aims to ensure the transparent management of the fund through a programme financed directly from the general budget of the eu and under the responsibility of the commission, through a review of the rules on the powers and composition of the advisory and technical groups. this is to inform the parties concerned of the proceedings. in addition, the amendments are also aimed at facilitating access to funding, especially for smes, through simplified requirements and alignments with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020. the latter will ensure a deep social responsibility given the exhausting conditions faced by those working in the coal and steel sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, the main purpose of which is to amend the legal basis of the research programme for the coal and steel sectors after the periodic evaluation of its management rules. it is important to ensure transparent management of a programme financed from the general budget of the eu and under the responsibility of the commission by applying the commission's rules on expert groups.
in writing. ‒ although our group has made a number of efforts to broaden the scope of r & d activities and to make research and technological development a priority in this text, the final report does present some lights and shadows. in particular, we have tried to carry out a number of measures on the impact on employment of workers and local communities of policies to reduce consumption and emissions. in addition, our struggles have focused on the possibility of introducing new support structures to manage labour market transitions. overall, i am voting for this text because we have managed to make some progress in facilitating access to funding, ensuring due transparency and alignment with the commission's rules on expert groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the following proposal because i share the need to amend the legal basis for the rules governing the management of the research fund for coal and steel. i believe that it is necessary to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules, to ensure that the programme is managed by the commission with the necessary transparency and to promote alignment with the rules of the horizon 2020 research programme, with which the research fund for coal and steel is complementary and independent.
in writing. - i'm not going to talk about it. it could have been done better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2008/376/ec adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme, because i am in favour of continuing that programme to support research, but also to promote innovative and development processes. i am very pleased with the capacity of this programme to create a network between small and mediumsized enterprises, research centres and universities, which is essential for the development of production and beyond. the proper use and conservation of resources is also of great importance, while respecting the environment of total safety, especially with regard to the health and safety of workers in the sector. i fully agree with the commission that it wants to change the legal basis in order to improve access to funding through simpler rules, so as to allow easier access to the horizon 2020 programme and the research fund for steel and coal. i hope that we can continue to work in this direction in order to develop new knowledge and promote innovation.
in writing. for more than 50 years now, the eu has been supporting the coal and steel research fund. managed by the european commission, this fund complements horizon 2020 and provides around eur 50 million of funding each year for research, development and innovation in the field. it also brings together industrial partners, smes, research centres and universities to promote innovation and knowledge in the european union. the commission is today proposing to amend the legal basis of the research programme, following the periodic review of its management rules, and to implement a number of objectives, including facilitating access to funding, by developing simplified rules and adapting the rules to the horizon 2020 programme. and to ensure transparent and orderly management of the programme by updating the provisions with reference to the legal basis. in the light of the foregoing, i shall vote in favour of mr buzek's report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2008/376/ec adopting the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme is part of the long-term process of european union funding for research in the coal and steel sectors. i welcomed the commission's proposal, which is mainly aimed at facilitating access to available funding and making this research programme consistent with the objectives set out in the general research programme 'horizon 2020'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that the legal basis needs to be amended to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and to align it with the rules of the horizon 2020 research programme. this research programme will be managed by the commission with full transparency and in accordance with the commission's rules on expert groups. these amendments are necessary to enable the commission to clarify the positions of the experts appointed to participate in the advisory groups and technical groups set up in the light of the programme of the research fund for coal and steel, in such a way as to avoid conflicts of interest. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the coal and steel research fund provides around eur 50 million of funding each year for research and development in the coal and steel sectors, in order to bring together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities across the european union and to develop knowledge and foster innovation. the proposal amends the legal basis of the research programme with the aim of ensuring more transparent management and simplifying the funding rules to facilitate the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the new amendments will also allow for a proportionate alignment with the horizon 2020 rules, while leaving the objectives and scope of the programme unchanged. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution on the research fund for coal and steel because the proposal for a decision does not open up any room for a different use of this fund, which the current industrial context makes more and more necessary. the coal and steel research fund should now help to solve the industrial problems that have been dragging the eu down for decades. the five star movement is calling for a rethink of the overall approach. the 2002 scenario of the ecsc's liquidation is no longer tenable, so we cannot continue with 'business as usual'. even within the current legal constraints on the management of funds, we believe that research must send a clear signal to these industries. for steel the social and environmental impact, both on workers and on local communities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research programmes are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. for coal, these concerns are compounded by respect for climate policy objectives. m5s would have liked a more in-depth discussion on the proceeds of the liquidation and calls for a bold use of the proceeds to ensure that they really help solve longstanding problems.
in writing. ‒ an industry that does not renew itself is one that is unlikely to be able to respond adequately to the challenges of the globalised world. as legislators, we have a duty to give our industries the tools to innovate. i therefore think it is important that there should be a research programme to fund research into improving the steelmaking process. the aim is to improve product quality and increase productivity. in the industrial and research fields, our priorities must always be actions such as reducing emissions, reducing energy consumption and environmental impact, and making better use of raw materials.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european parliament prepares an explanatory report on its position on human rights. the following refers to the year 2015. in addition to the elements which are usually considered in the presentation of the report, some points have been introduced this year which can be described as innovative and extremely interesting. for example, i find the paragraphs on freedom of expression online and offline and through audiovisual and other media, the paragraph on migrants, refugees and asylum seekers and the link between democracy and human rights very positive. i have dealt with this last subject at length in other reports and i am therefore very pleased that a separate section on this subject has been included in the dossier. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union must act in a coordinated and coherent way in its development policies, whether they are directed at territories within the union or to territories outside it. policy coherence presupposes an agreement on values and principles to which we must conform and converge. governance and coordination at different levels and scales are therefore essential to promote dialogue and foster agreement and political commitment by each institution in transforming its policies, integrating, implementing and monitoring them as intended, in a constant process of review and renewal. we cannot risk promoting the values of democracy, respect for human rights and the fight against poverty and then implementing policies or trade agreements with third countries in certain areas which indirectly create the conditions for the commitments made to be violated or not respected. in particular, in the years ahead, attention should be paid to partnership and cooperation agreements with non-democratic developing countries where, without a proper procedure for reporting on aid provided, there is a risk of unintentionally strengthening the darkest parts of the same countries we would like to help.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, because human rights issues were also raised in 2015. in many countries, there has been an increasingly narrow space for civil society, restrictions on non-governmental organisations, serious human rights violations against activists and attacks against journalists and bloggers. much more needs to be done to guarantee fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, and the principles of equality and solidarity. today more than ever, the building of a european area of rights that is genuinely inclusive in its complexity, and not just a geographical boundary, is an element that should be a priority on the agenda of the community institutions and the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report is the one in which the european parliament expresses its position, its assessment and its wishes on human rights every year, taking into account the factual, political and regulatory events that took place in the previous year, in this case therefore referring to 2015. i have greatly appreciated the great work done by both the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who have produced, on the whole, an extremely good text. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text under consideration, prepared annually by the subcommittee on human rights and approved by the committee on foreign affairs, gives a partial overview of the human rights situation in the world. the reports we have drawn up start with a laudable intention on the part of parliament to denounce abuses and condemn situations which are beyond all control and tolerance. in addition to the odious discrimination against religious minorities and the unjustifiable violence against the weakest, there are many references to abortion. the text before the plenary session equates the right to abortion, which has nothing to do with universal human rights, with the rights proclaimed by the european union to individual and religious freedom. i therefore thought it appropriate not to support a report which is based on very high principles but fails to make an analysis that is free from ideology.
in writing. the report by mr weidenholzer is a very useful tool in shedding light on where and how human rights and democratic values are being threatened in the world. in fact, when authoritarian regimes and terrorist groups like isis are seriously undermining the universality of human rights in many parts of the world, it is our moral responsibility to take a clear and strong stand to defend them. the report also has the merit of shedding new light on the worrying situation of refugee children and unaccompanied, missing or separated children. the member states must give this tragic situation the highest priority. i voted in favour of the report in the hope that the european commission will present as soon as possible a concrete strategy to ensure that unaccompanied migrant children are really and effectively protected from all forms of violence, exploitation and abuse.
in writing. - the world is crying, but we can't just afford to cry. we must strive to become aware of our own ills and adopt appropriate strategies to erode them, and that is what i intend to do by voting in favour of the report. it is no longer enough to see the continuing violence and persecution, especially in the middle east, perpetrated by isis and its followers. similarly, complaining about intolerance and discrimination based on different religious beliefs is of little use if interreligious dialogue and integration are not undertaken, investing in the opportunities that the future and its generations can bring. the report shows how some progress has been made on the issue and how it can be further developed, for example by strengthening the role and powers of the eu special representative to implement the promotion of human rights and the decisive role of europe. there are also reports of attempts to narrow the gap between civil society and freedom of assembly and expression. i therefore fully support human rights dialogues as effective instruments for bilateral commitments and cooperation between institutions and organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure which underlines the persistence of persecution and discrimination against religious minorities around the world. the report calls for interreligious dialogue and ensuring that minorities are protected, including those in the middle east, where yazidis, christians and muslims are persecuted by daesh and other terrorist groups. the report also pays particular attention to women, children, people with disabilities and older people and to eu human rights policies, highlighting how conflicts, wars and government failure are the main causes of migration.
in writing. ‒ the universality of human rights is currently under serious threat in many parts of the world. it is enough to think of the constant violations of freedom of association and expression in russia, china and turkey. i voted in favour of this resolution because i share the need for the eu to ensure consistency between its internal and external policies on respect for human rights. i believe that the eu must make full use of the instruments at its disposal to promote and protect human rights. in particular, public diplomacy through eu statements, policy initiatives and dialogues, human rights guidelines and national human rights strategies, regular human rights dialogues and financial cooperation projects, including support for civil society. the eu must not abandon its commitment to mainstreaming human rights and gender issues in its missions and, more generally, to conducting the common defence and security policy in line with the fundamental values of civil society and the principles of democracy enshrined in the treaties and the un charter.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter as the text accurately and organically reports on the main events and assessments and positions expressed by the eu on the protection of human rights during 2015. the report focuses in particular on the issue of migrants and asylum seekers, one of the biggest challenges facing the eu. the part on trade, business and human rights largely echoes the report by mr corrao on corporate liability, which calls for greater attention to the policies adopted by multinationals in respect of human rights.
in writing. the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2015 and on european union policy on the subject is distinguished by its organic structure and less focus on individual country-case analysis. the european parliament's strong commitment to the protection of fundamental rights, including outside the union, is confirmed. with reference to the 2015 report, the section on freedom of expression is particularly noteworthy. the report is very positive for this and other reasons.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report which, among other things, supports the recognition of same-sex marriages and civil unions and adoption by same-sex couples.
in writing. the european union is constantly committed to the implementation of common security and foreign affairs policies, based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms. parliament's report expresses concern about violence, persecution and discrimination against religious minorities worldwide and makes recommendations to ensure that the rights of religious minorities are respected. the european parliament therefore calls for interreligious dialogue to be launched, with minorities guaranteed protection and greater attention to be paid to the middle east, where religious groups are persecuted by terrorist groups. the report also stresses that conflicts, wars and hostile governments are the main causes of migration and reiterates the need to distinguish between refugees and migrants, always bearing in mind international human rights standards and with the intention of finding coherent, sustainable and long-term solutions. i am confident that these initiatives will help to improve the situation of minorities, and i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by my colleague because i believe that, despite the fact that it deals with a complex and sensitive subject, it is framed in a coherent and well-considered text, the result of careful work. during 2016, the year in which the 50th anniversary of the adoption of the two un international covenants (on civil and political rights and on economic, social and cultural rights) was celebrated, respect for human rights was put to the test by the outbreak of strong waves of violence on a global scale. the european union, as a community of values and principles, rather than as an economic community, is a bulwark for the defence of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, highlighting its vocation to protect the most vulnerable and victims of oppression. this vocation is also apparent in relations with third countries, and cooperation with them has played a fundamental role in the last year in countering terrorism, which by definition attacks the essence of human rights, annihilating the right to life. i share the objective of strengthening justice and the fight against impunity, as well as the desire to develop a more comprehensive approach to the processes of democratisation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it accurately analyses the situation of human rights and democracy in the world in the year 2015 and how these are threatened by xenophobic sentiments, discriminatory laws and nationalist and extremist movements. the universality of human rights is denied in too many parts of the world. women and children, migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, lgbti people, indigenous peoples and human rights activists are the most at risk. 2015 was a critical year for the european union. the arrival of so many refugees has tested european solidarity as never before. but especially in times of economic crisis and widespread insecurity, it is important that europe remains true to its core values: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. and that must be true of both its internal and external policies. all international agreements on migration, development and trade should include clauses that provide for respect for democracy and human rights, which are complementary to and not alternative to the economic well-being of any society.
in writing. ‒ the following report is presented annually as it sets out the general guidelines of the european union on the common foreign and security policy. in particular, i find the rapporteur's views on these matters very different from my own, and at times almost improbable. examples of this are the extremely aggressive attitude towards russia, which is seen as a threat to the west, and the strengthening of defence and security, which would entail greater expenditure on the part of the member states. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with what is said in mr brok's report, and i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the eu, as a key player in international dynamics, is facing new challenges that have a direct bearing on its security and defence. with the growing interdependence between internal and external security and the deep instability affecting the union's neighbourhood, strengthening its capabilities in this area becomes a priority in the framework of community policies. i therefore support this report which stresses the importance of creating community mechanisms that exploit the potential already present in the lisbon treaty, such as permanent structured cooperation. to promote self-sufficiency in security and defence, the union needs first of all coordination. in addition, with an already underfunded budget, joint operations under the cfsp require additional funding and cooperation from the member states. the report also stresses that the union's external policies must be consistent not only with each other, avoiding duplication of operations and funding, but also with the fundamental pillars on which the european union is based, such as fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a great historical responsibility, facing internal and external challenges including interstate conflict, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. we must realise that the eu will only be able to respond effectively to the new challenges if its structures and its member states work together in a common and really coordinated action in the framework of the cfsp/csdp, a framework which, in the long term, can only lead to the foundation of a federal core, the ultimate aim of the birth of the european union. only a european government, led by a federal european state, will be able to have the military, economic, strategic and intelligence resources needed to effectively protect its citizens and promote stability in the regions of the world around us. today we are failing in our historic task and only partially fulfilling our role in the world. we cannot do this because our 28 national policies are fragmented, limited and divergent. but with a single leader and a single foreign policy we could easily bring stability and security to all the areas bordering the mediterranean basin.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in question, which takes stock of the state of implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the european union is facing internal and external challenges, including interstate conflict, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. such conflicts have direct and serious consequences for the security and well-being of eu citizens, as they increasingly spill over into the eu in the form of terrorism, massive flows of refugees and disinformation campaigns aimed at dividing our societies. the report stresses the need for the european union to strengthen its security and defence capabilities, underlines the eu's commitment to a law-based international order and effective multilateralism under the auspices of the united nations, and considers it essential to make operational the instruments provided for by the lisbon treaty, in particular permanent structured cooperation (pesco).
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy is, in my view, highly problematic, first of all as regards the discourse on sanctions against russia. the report says that sanctions have proved to be the most effective deterrent to russian aggression in ukraine and insists that the eu should reserve the right to impose further sanctions gradually. i do not share these views. another step which i find very sensitive is the one whereby member states are once again asked to respect the 2% target for defence spending as required by nato. i am in favour of greater harmonization and better coordination of forces, but i think that at a time of history of severe economic crisis such as the present one, we must limit increases in expenditure. another critical node is the proposal to establish a permanent civilian-military headquarters, with military planning and conduct capacity and civilian planning and conduct capacity of equal importance. my vote was against.
in writing. - i vote against. the report emphasises how security in europe has been seriously damaged by russia's military intervention in crimea and eastern ukraine. the european union is also calling for a new round of negotiations with the united states and the european union to be held in the coming months. moreover, increased defence spending, collective funding for eu missions and funding for rapid military responses at european level are needed.
in writing. ‒ terrorism frightens us but cannot bring us down, just as cyber and energy insecurity hamper our progress, yet they cannot stop it. only by implementing full security for the union and by using appropriate foreign policy instruments can we reassert ourselves as the source of peace, stability and prosperity that we have historically been, and i therefore support the need for the union's external policies to be consistent with each other and with others with an external dimension. resilience is our main objective and is achievable through a security and defence implementation plan containing the level of ambition, tasks, requirements and priorities in terms of capabilities for european defence. such a comprehensive strategy requires commitment, ownership, political will and leadership from all member states. we must not forget that development, which our eu is also suffering from the economic and employment crisis, can only be achieved if there is security, and vice versa. all this calls for a stronger diplomacy in its forms of prevention and mediation, not only external but also internal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the need for all policies within the 'foreign policy instruments' to be implemented consistently and coherently to safeguard the eu's interests and values worldwide. the report recognises the multiple challenges the eu is facing abroad, from terrorism to cybersecurity, from disinformation to the fight against human trafficking. i agree with the report that the european union's external action must be based on three pillars: the european union is the world's largest trading partner.
in writing. ‒ the eu is in a deteriorated stability and security environment, due to hybrid threats, conflicts in neighbouring countries and russia's aggressive action in crimea and ukraine. in such an interconnected and complex context, it is necessary for member states to make use of the instruments made available by the treaty of lisbon, in particular permanent structured cooperation, and to ensure coherence between civilian and military actions abroad, in line with the objectives of diplomacy, development and defence. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which recalls the areas in which the eu can and must continue to work towards developing a common foreign and security policy inspired by the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the united nations charter and international law. i believe that it is particularly important to strengthen europe's capacity to manage its own security by combining soft and hard power to prevent and respond to common security challenges.
in writing. - it is obvious that the historical period in which we live is extremely complicated, both politically and socially. the complexity of the interests at stake, the multiplicity of actors - often 'non-state' actors - on the scene, the dramatic demagogic and extremist trends growing in many countries, all this calls for a new approach to international relations. in fact, compared with the decades before us, we can no longer assume that the threats posed by the diversity of our continent can be adequately addressed by the individual member states. today, more than ever, there is a need for greater integration of the foreign policies of the member states in order to synthesise them into a single effective foreign policy of the european union. the annual report on the state of the common foreign and security policy which we have approved tackles the main problems of the cfsp and sets out its priorities for the future. in particular, the report addresses the changed geopolitical context in which the eu must operate and the related challenges such as brexit, the mediterranean and the crisis in the middle east while stressing the need for stronger european integration.
in writing. ‒ i believe that recent events, including terrorist attacks and interstate conflicts, have reduced security within the eu. the eu is surrounded by countries torn by conflict, which pose a growing threat to the eu's internal security. i therefore urge the eu to invest more in defence and to work more closely with nato, continuing its commitment to peace and the fight against extremism and radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ i vote against, the usual anti-russian relationship is unrealistic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy because, in the light of the changing geopolitical context in which the eu operates, it is essential to make decisive choices for a common action plan capable of providing adequate funds and playing a more visible and effective role in conflict resolution. i am very much convinced that the implementation of the instruments provided for by the lisbon treaty, in particular the permanent structured cooperation between the member states, can be an important step forward in building a real 'defence union' which will provide full security for european citizens and for the areas affected by war. i believe that it is essential to establish an effective dialogue and a more constructive relationship with countries such as russia, which at this historic moment are playing a key role in the conflicts in the middle east. i am convinced that greater cooperation and better understanding between member states are the necessary basis for meeting the expectations of all citizens for stability and prosperity, maximising the eu's diplomatic clout and asserting its influence at international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the cfsp is extremely important for the european identity and image, not only for our partners but also for our member states. in this respect, it is important to follow up on the proposal for an annual reflection on the state of play of the implementation of the strategy involving parliament, in order to increase the perception of european action among citizens, also in conjunction with the electoral deadlines of the institutions. i think that the latest steps taken to promote a defence europe and the new global strategy very well embody the principles on which the eu's external action is to be based: the european union is a major player in the world economy. and this should encourage us to be even more ambitious, bearing in mind also the increasingly important function of cultural diplomacy for the eu's external relations and the eu's development agenda.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy which highlights the many challenges facing the eu in the field of external borders, terrorism, cyber security, disinformation, radicalisation and the fight against trafficking in human beings. the uncertainties between internal and external security can only be countered with strong commitment, responsibility, political will and leadership on the part of the member states. in this respect, the report recommends that the union's foreign policy be based on its three fundamental pillars: defence, development and diplomacy. the european parliament also called for the eu to strengthen its security and defence capabilities and to guarantee peace and stability in neighbouring countries. it also considered it essential to pay greater attention to conflict prevention, particularly in view of the union's immense potential as a diplomatic actor and as a guarantor of the protection of human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu). the european union and its citizens are undergoing a period of instability and insecurity resulting from the impact of proliferation of terrorist groups, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and interstate conflicts. therefore, the member states need our support, which will enable them to respond effectively to the new challenges that are having serious consequences on the well-being of citizens. only by increasing cooperation and implementing stronger measures will the eu be able to continue fomenting peace, stability, and prosperity to its citizens and remain the largest economic power, the most generous donor of humanitarian and development assistance and a model in global diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that in the current situation the european union is facing both internal and external challenges. indeed, eu member states are surrounded by a wide arc of instability, for example much of the middle east and north africa (mena) is the scene of continuing ethnic-religious conflict. the implementation of a common foreign and security policy will therefore, on the one hand, protect the european union from threats from other nations and, on the other hand, provide an opportunity to improve its functioning and cooperation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu faces old and new challenges. in addition to the instability and crises in the neighbouring countries to the east and south, there are uncertainties about the new international context following the brexit referendum and the election of trump as us president. all this in an economic situation which seems to be improving, but which is still far from being rosy. that is why we need a strong and united europe more than ever, one that speaks with one voice and that makes its full political, economic, moral and diplomatic weight felt in resolving conflicts, confronting an increasingly aggressive russia and fighting terrorist groups. the report therefore stresses the need to strengthen european integration, in particular by taking concrete steps towards a common defence and by allowing the high representative to play a more visible and effective role. with regard to russia, sanctions will need to be accompanied by a strategy of finding areas of common interest and building more constructive relations, while in the case of the conflicts in syria and yemen, the eu needs to play a more active role, leveraging key regional actors such as turkey, saudi arabia and iran, to reach a peaceful solution.
in writing. ‒ the positive vote on mr brok's report is part of a strong support for the union's action to tackle security and defence issues. common civil and military capabilities are key elements in enabling the european union to respond fully to crises, to build the resilience of partners and to protect europe from internal and external threats. the common security and defence policy must be strengthened to increase its effectiveness, including by encouraging investment in advanced technologies. finally, i share the view that any decision to move towards a desirable european defence union must be taken unanimously by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu). i believe it is good to continue the success story of transforming the european union through action. we must take responsibility for our security by strengthening our security and defence capabilities. we need to build resilience and invest in a truly global approach through development, support and empowerment projects. the role of parliamentary diplomacy should be emphasised in order to strengthen political cooperation with the eu's partners.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural market has always been characterised by significant price volatility, but this situation has recently worsened, especially due to the volatility of the demand and supply of agricultural products. to resolve this situation, concrete action is needed, by proposing and implementing measures and policies to reduce price variability. unfortunately, this report, although it contains some positive elements, merely sets out the situation without really proposing anything to deal with the problem. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although the text is generally acceptable, i decided to abstain because of the lack of impact and the low value of the contribution made by this report at the beginning of a very important phase of future cap revision.
in writing. ‒ agricultural activity depends on biological processes such as climatic conditions and animal and plant diseases, i.e. factors outside the farmer's control. income uncertainty is particularly damaging to investment and innovation. in addition, changes in agricultural production generate an inherent tendency for agricultural markets to be volatile. the cap was originally characterised by strict market regulation. at its heart was price-guarantee. they gave farmers a minimum price for their produce in case of crisis. over time, the cap has been reformed and now proposes a number of new risk management measures under the second pillar. in this context, member states may or may not include them in their rural development programmes. however, it is considered that the cap risk management instruments are inadequate to limit the effects of price volatility on farmers' income. the eu should provide solutions to this through the cap, focusing on three key points: strengthening the organisation of supply chains and contracting, improving the protection of farmers' income through risk management tools adapted to price volatility and enhancing market transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today, which gives the commission sound suggestions for strengthening the bargaining power of producers in the food chain and calls for the introduction of countercyclical aid to support farmers' incomes when unfavourable years reduce their incomes. the volatility of agricultural prices is one of the main factors in the dire situation in which many european farmers find themselves today. a more effective policy, with targeted instruments at national and european level, is needed to tackle the negative effects of volatility and to ensure fair and remunerative prices for farmers. the resolution, which i helped draft, identifies possible areas of intervention in written contracts, support for risk management, increased market transparency and action at european level against unfair trading practices which harm not only european farmers but also consumers who may be unfairly exposed to inflated prices.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to concepts that are certainly shared, such as the importance and need to strengthen primary producers, the strengthening of producers' negotiating power, the protection of farmers, supply chain contracts, but unfortunately a proper analysis does not follow a proposal that is high in relation to investment and concrete policies. i therefore opted for abstention.
in writing. price volatility in agricultural markets has increased in recent years due to a number of factors, including extreme weather events and the impact of climate change on human activities. these events have also had a serious impact on food security and farmers' incomes. i believe it is the task of the european institutions to mitigate the causes of this volatility by reforming their common agricultural policy. in particular, i believe that the bargaining power of small producers should be strengthened by means of standard collectively negotiated contracts. such instruments could allow farmers to defend themselves against commercial practices that could harm them or otherwise reduce their capacity to invest and innovate. i appreciate that the report, for which i voted in favour, recommends the creation of specific european agricultural price observatories which will analyse the entire production chain, from the cost of production to the final selling price. in this regard, greater transparency of agricultural markets should be ensured so that price information is accessible in real time to all interested parties, including consumers. i am convinced, however, that price crises must be prevented by countercyclical measures such as direct aid to farmers which can compensate for large price cuts.
in writing. - i abstained. the report is not very clear and does not give european policies the right responsibilities for the volatility of agricultural prices. the fundamental issue of the recognition of the "value" of products is not addressed.
in writing. ‒ the mere reflection we are about to make on the year that is drawing to a close includes the many environmental disasters that have characterised europe. in fact, since the floods, natural impacts are only one of many external variables that impact agricultural production and related markets. in view of this axiom, i share this report with the full knowledge that the instruments of the common agricultural policy adopted so far have proved ineffective or inadequate in the face of the rampant volatility of commodity prices. it is difficult to limit change, and it is impossible to think that we can control it completely, but there are certain measures that can be taken to prevent or avoid its harmful effects. among these, two contextual measures are proposed. the first is to strengthen the organization of the supply chains and the contracting system in order to ensure income for farmers. to complete this, it is necessary to introduce contractual relations by adapting competition legislation. the latter must, however, be fully guaranteed and will therefore be monitored by means of effective instruments. since the agricultural sector, by its very nature, does not have an immediate adjustment, tools for risk and crisis management are needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to strengthen the organisation of supply chains and contracting, to better protect farmers' incomes by providing specific risk management instruments adapted to price volatility and to strengthen market transparency by setting up price observatories.
in writing. ‒ the volatility of agricultural product prices is one of the main factors in the dire situation in which many european farmers find themselves today. on the one hand, income uncertainty, due to the difficulty of forecasting production, is particularly damaging to investment and innovation and can put the economic viability of farms in question. on the other hand, changes in agricultural production imply that agricultural markets have an inherent tendency to be volatile. the current cap, while proposing different instruments for income stabilisation, has failed to address the high volatility of prices on agricultural markets and has instead placed an excessive burden on the producer. i therefore believe that the next cap reform should seek new ways of combating price volatility and stabilising farmers' incomes in response to market imbalances.
in writing. ‒ the cap has proved largely inadequate to counter the effects of price volatility in relation to farmers' incomes. the international context, globalisation and the fictionalisation of the real economy have hit the primary sector hard: in the five-year period 2005-2010 alone, 2.4 million farms disappeared. extreme weather events have brought several regions of europe to their knees. in addition, the unchallenged dominance of the processing and retail industries has imposed high prices on farmers, who have had to cope with rising energy and production costs. the eu's policy choice of the russian embargo and the consequent retaliation on the agricultural side have contributed to price volatility and income instability. the answer cannot be to resort to higher risk financial instruments or even more expensive insurance products. the destruction of local markets by subsidies for dumping surpluses cannot continue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining because of the lack of impact and the low value of the contribution made at the beginning of a very important phase of the future review of the cap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the cap instruments to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets because i believe that the instability and volatility of prices of agricultural raw materials and, consequently, of agricultural products in general, which has been accentuated by the economic and financial crisis, has always characterised agricultural markets and has become a structural element of agriculture globally in recent years, due to the rapid succession of demand, supply and price shocks. price volatility is likely to increase due to a variety of causes, such as the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, globalisation and the sophistication of agricultural markets, increasing supply variability due to climate instability, increased health risks and the fragile balance of the food chain. agriculture as an activity and as a vital economic sector for the eu therefore faces very important challenges in terms of innovation and process rationalisation. it will be necessary to consider both new risk and crisis management tools and a strengthening of the current second pillar measures, with the aim of enhancing the competitiveness of european agriculture by actively involving producer organisations in the implementation process.
in writing. as we know, farming activities are highly dependent on natural factors, including climatic conditions and plant and animal diseases, factors which are unfortunately beyond the farmer's control. these factors only increase the volatility of food prices, making the agricultural sector more uncertain than others. uncertainties that damage investment and innovation and put the economic viability of farms at risk. following the increase in agricultural prices between 2007 and 2008 and the consequences for global food security, this problem has received international attention. this focus on risk management is reflected in agricultural policies and in particular in the cap 2014-2020. the report by parliament, which i supported in the house, focuses on three main issues in order to ensure efficient food production. the committee therefore calls for the organisation of supply chains and contracting to be strengthened, for farmers' income to be better protected by risk management instruments adapted to price volatility and for the markets to be made more transparent by introducing measures to combat unfair trading practices along the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cap instruments to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets, recognising the importance of this sector, which not only provides food but also contributes significantly to the development of rural areas. the delicate balance of the food chain is now threatened by the instability of agricultural markets, which are also affected by globalisation and climate change. on this basis, coordinated action at national and european level can be effective in ensuring productivity in the agricultural sector but also in protecting farmers who are most exposed to price volatility.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of my colleagues' proposal because i believe that excessive price volatility on the agricultural market would harm producers and consumers. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ farmers are the most important, but also the weakest link in the food production chain and are the most affected by high price volatility. the eu must develop effective measures to protect them and consumers from unfair trading practices. the current system is too slow to respond to shocks and market imbalances, such as the russian embargo or weak international demand for agricultural products, and is unable to combat unfair trading practices, excessive price volatility and to stabilise farmers' incomes. this report is a good starting point for tackling these problems. the commission is proposing a number of improvements to the common agricultural policy, such as the inclusion of new instruments for the prevention and management of crises in the short term and the provision of counter-cyclical measures in the long term. equally important will be the strengthening of farmers' bargaining power through the introduction of standard, transparent, balanced and collectively negotiated contracts. price volatility and market imbalances are a threat not only to farmers and consumers, but also to the eu's own food independence in the long term. it is therefore extremely necessary and urgent to act and that is why i have supported this resolution.
in writing. this paper seems to assume that price volatility in agricultural markets is inevitable. i am convinced that as a result of the intense weather fluctuations, increased by climate change, and the variability in the supply of agricultural products, the market is and will always be exposed to the risk of volatility. however, there are many actions we can take to regulate and contain overexposure. i am referring in particular to measures to limit speculation in foodstuffs and to manage real supply and demand, even by making them coincide. the current policy of over-reliance on third-party markets has caused major problems, as has happened in the dairy and fruit and vegetable sectors. the text also expresses shared concepts but is more a statement of the situation than a proposal for concrete measures or policies. price instability and volatility are now considered to be a structural feature of both european and world agriculture, but this is not the case. we must do more, much more, to protect a sector as important as agriculture, and it is in the light of these considerations that i have voted against this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 december, at the eurogroup meeting in brussels, the french finance minister announced with confidence and determination that the greek government had made great strides in implementing the reforms demanded by the troika. tears, blood, social carnage but the homework was done. the deal was certainly on the horizon and would be closed before christmas. it was time, the minister said, to reward greece's efforts with a debt reduction, because greece had kept its word, and it was time for europe to keep its word. but once again the german government has thought of shutting the taps to prevent greece from getting the little breathing space that europe was willing to offer. germany, the same country that has been breaking the rules on surplus for years, the same country that is hurting the whole euro area by not investing when it should. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. what pulpit is this coming from? the german minister should explain to us what structural reforms germany is implementing to avoid a new diesel gate or to increase the wages of minijobs. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. an election campaign lived on the hunger of those parents who can no longer feed their children, on the skin of those mothers who give themselves to prostitution to be able to buy breakfast for their children. prostitution in greece has increased by 150 percent, hiv cases by 200 percent. voters are not listened to, but only suggested, voters were not listened to in greece with the referendum called for by alexis tsipras, voters are not listened to in italy. they said no to constitutional reform, no to renzi and the government of the banks, the fact is that after a few days, they find themselves with a prime minister remote controlled by renzi himself. and if that's not enough, athens just passed the budget for 2017, which includes cuts of one billion euros and new taxes of another billion euros. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to choose the words i have just quoted. greece has kept its word, europe must now keep its word. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr balz, the surplus that your country has been making for years and for which it has not been sanctioned for years is not something new that i have mentioned today, nor is it an offence, it is exactly the situation as it is. what has your country done? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the oil price. that's a fact, not an insult. you take your responsibility, pay the fines you owe for the surplus and then come and tell me that the policy you are applying to greece is not right.
i'm asking for a blue card. mr giegold was in a hurry to leave, but let us try to sort out the matter of this surplus for a moment. should germany be sanctioned? is this against the rules? so instead of saying we want to make a political war, start following the rules, because it is normal in a democracy to follow the rules. you are breaking a rule as a state, and therefore you cannot teach any kind of lesson to other countries. you'll put things right and then come and teach us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with my colleagues from the socialist and democratic group we have recently sent a letter to the three presidents, juncker, dijsselbloem and draghi, on the question of collective bargaining in greece, following the implementation of the memorandum. this is a very unfortunate situation, which has in fact forced the greek government to decentralize and to deplete the value of the collective bargaining system in the country. the commission's reply leaves us perplexed. on the one hand, it acknowledges the seriousness of the employment and wage situation and the growing poverty, it admits the utmost attention by the commission to respect for fundamental and social rights, but at the same time it points out that the memorandum operates outside european rights and therefore, technically, those rights do not apply to the implementation of the measures imposed, i would stress, again, imposed on greece. i believe that the european commission, this parliament and all the institutions must always strive to ensure that the rights of the union are always applied. the commission is the guardian of the treaties, that is what i was taught.
i'm asking for a blue card. the question, mr iwaszkiewicz, is what does all that have to do with the speeches we are making in this parliament? and what is it doing in this parliament and in the european union, when we are here with commissioner timmermans to discuss among ourselves how to defend common values and principles? what are you doing here?
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for scheduling this debate today on two key elements in our european agenda on migration: the implementation of the eu-turkish statement, and our last recommendation to gradually apply the dublin rules in greece. let me first point out that, while these are two important elements in our comprehensive migration approach, they are not the only ones. secondly, all our policies are interconnected, and the progress we have achieved so far – and all our reports from last week demonstrate this – is precisely because we have made progress on many fronts, not just one. from relocation and resettlement to returns, to improving reception conditions, to fighting smuggling, and indeed to cooperating with all important partner countries. all of these matter. this is why it is so important to sustain and deepen the progress that we have made so far. we are not where we were one year ago, but the situation remains fragile. now is not the moment to become complacent. let me therefore start by emphasising that the eu-turkey statement continues to work and bear results. fewer people are crossing the aegean sea – around 90 persons per day – and fewer people have lost their lives trying to do so. in parallel, more than 2 600 syria refugees have been resettled from turkey to the european union since the entry into force of the statement, and this pace continues to pick up. the main challenge is that the number of returns since september continues to be low, even if the greek asylum service has doubled the number of experts working on the islands. additional experts are expected to be recruited by the end of this year. indeed, since the previous report at end of september 2016, 170 persons who went to greece through turkey have been returned to turkey in the framework of the eu-turkish statement, including 42 syrians. this brings the total number of migrants returned to turkey since the eu-turkey statement to 777. in total, 1 960 irregular migrants were returned from greece to turkey in the course of 2016 under the eu-turkish statement or the greek-turkey bilateral readmission protocol, and 95 of those were syrians. further efforts and support are needed, in particular additional member state experts through the european asylum support office. the processing of asylum applications needs to speed up, and the number of returns of those who have no right to stay needs to increase. but there are more elements to the eu-turkey statement, and you know that. both parties are fully committed to implementing and delivering on all. the commission has accelerated the implementation of funding through the facility for refugees in turkey for humanitarian and for non-humanitarian purposes, with a view to addressing the most critical needs of syrian refugees and host communities in turkey. these funds are now starting to have a direct impact on the ground. on visa liberalisation, the commission and turkey are continuously engaged in committed dialogue to find solutions to all outstanding benchmarks. to conclude, the implementation of the eu-turkey statement continues to deliver results, despite challenging circumstances. the commission will continue to drive this work forward and will present its fifth report on the progress made in early march 2017. on the recommendation of the resumption of dublin transfers to greece, let me begin by repeating once again – and i want to be very clear on this – that no single member state should bear the burden of the refugee crisis alone. no member state in the future should be left alone to endure an unsustainable burden. significant progress has been achieved in greece to put in place a fully functioning asylum system over the last months and years under very pressing and difficult circumstances. we should all praise and commend greece for this, and we should continue to support greece. greece is also facing huge challenges in implementing the eu-turkish statement. the number of asylum applications has multiplied by four during the course of this year. this why we have recommended a gradual resumption of dublin transfers of asylum seekers, starting as of 15 march 2017, in order to reach a balance between the burden the country still has to face and returning greece back to the dublin system. but let me be clear on this: the commission did not decide to send refugees or migrants back to greece. what we recommended to member states is a gradual return to the application of the rules. greece’s progress, despite the exceptional situation, has been recognised by the fact that we proposed a gradual resumption as of mid-march 2017 meaning for migrants that will enter europe through greece after that date only and might try to move irregularly towards other member states. but even then, it will concern only certain categories and it will presuppose individual guarantees for the transfer of its migrants which greece should be in a position to provide. we recommend that every time a member state wants to execute a dublin transfer, they should only do so after having received individual assurances from the greek authorities that its particular applicant will be received in the conditions mandated by european law. sending the message that rules have started to apply will encourage relocation efforts by showing member states that greece is respecting its legal obligations to take back asylum seekers who have absconded. relocation will only work if other member states do their part in picking up the pace of relocation and deploying national experts. in addition to that, asylum seekers need to know that they cannot relocate themselves, and that if they do so, they will be sent back and cannot benefit from relocation. it goes without saying that the commission will constantly monitor the situation and update its recommendation if necessary. the ultimate responsibility for resuming transfers lies, of course, with the member states, and their national courts. returning to a fully functioning dublin system is a key element in restoring the normal functioning of the schengen area. as you know, secondary movements of asylum seekers from greece have been one of the reasons for the reintroduction of internal border controls. the resumption of transfers, coupled with the fact that greece has reinforced the control at its northern border, is important to move in this direction. in parallel, we pursued together with you the priority of finalising the negotiations of the reform of the dublin system based on a fairness mechanism which also relies on the effective carrying out of dublin transfers. as i said at the beginning, all these elements go hand in hand. this is also why the commission called last week on member states to sustain the good progress in terms of relocation and to ensure at least 2 000 relocations per month from greece and 1 000 from italy from this month onwards. and the commission is doing everything to support all member states to the maximum – and in particular the frontline member states – to effectively address not only the immediate, but also the long-term challenges of migration, and to turn them into opportunities. but for all elements to go hand in hand, we need many hands. it is absolutely critical that all actors and stakeholders, all member states, eu agencies, civil society organisations as well as you, honourable members, take up their fair share of their responsibility. our work is not over yet.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. you yourself, not just amnesty international, say that the reception in the aegean islands and on the mainland is not working, that unaccompanied minors and vulnerable people are still detained, and yet you recommend the return of refugees to greece starting from march 2017, given the many advances. you admit that the islands are overcrowded and ask to fill them more. you mention the judgments of the european court of human rights against such transfers, even gradual ones, and you forget them in the street. the action plan on the european union and turkey is no less puzzling. it is now clear that turkey is not a safe country. nevertheless, you want more returns, family reunifications managed in turkey and do not hesitate to recommend the deportation of the most vulnerable. the greek government is even being asked to rewrite the laws prohibiting such returns. i ask the commission what makes it think it is strong when it is showing that it is totally incapable of relocating refugees as promised, and that it ignores the economic misery imposed on greece, unless it wants to appear strong by eradicating human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to resume transfers from dublin to greece is a contradiction when the transfers are at 5%. in april, commissioner, you said that the old dublin system was dead. vice president timmermans even disrupted game of thrones, saying he died like john snow. i wonder if he's one of the writers and knew that old dublin would rise again. in greece there are still 16 000 people on the islands in inadequate conditions. what is the success of the eu-turkey agreement? for moving the suffering of asylum seekers farther from our borders? the images from aleppo show that the reasons for fleeing are more acute than ever. it is time to launch infringement procedures against those who are not carrying out the promised relocations and instead ask greece to increase returns, including of minors and vulnerable people. parliament wanted to move beyond dublin, beyond the first country of accession criterion, towards a fair sharing of responsibility between member states, and instead the council, instead of discussing the already weak commission proposal, discusses fanciful proposals on flexible solidarity to avoid any obligation. this is not the way, commissioner.
in writing. the commission's recommendations on the eu-turkey agreement and the resumption of transfers of asylum seekers to greece are contradictory and inconsistent. the implementation of the eu-turkey agreement continues to be talked about as being of fundamental importance to the european union, but turkey cannot currently be considered a safe country and the european parliament has voted to freeze the accession negotiations. it is recognised that the greek islands are still overcrowded, that the greek asylum system remains deficient in terms of reception conditions, the treatment of vulnerable persons and the timing of asylum applications. however, as of march 2017, it is expected that member states will again be able to reject asylum seekers arriving in europe from greece under the dublin rules. of the 160 000 migrants, only slightly more than 6 000 were resettled from greece and not even 2 000 from italy. the announcement of returning migrants to greece presages an implicit invitation to do the same with italy, another member state that is the victim of a common european asylum system made up of broken rules that penalize the first arriving member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank mr díaz de mera for his work, which is certainly not easy. i am firmly convinced that visa liberalisation represents an opportunity in terms of the development of tourism, trade and international dialogue. i understand, however, that the policies within the schengen area must now be made more flexible to meet the challenges of our times. this includes the introduction of the possibility of suspending the exemption from the visa requirement if there is evidence of a possible threat to the internal security of the member states. but of course it is important to maintain the schengen system, and i therefore believe that before the suspension mechanism is activated, the commission must assess the human rights situation in the third country which is subject to the suspension procedure, in order to verify that the reintroduction of the visa requirement, where necessary, does not have a negative impact on citizens fleeing from dramatic conflicts and persecution and that there are no possible forms of abuse. and it is important, also in this respect, that parliament actively monitors the visa suspension process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, my concern about the incident involving europol is not only related to the type of information disseminated on the internet, but also to the possible consequences for the confidence of the states in the agency's liaison action and the consequent willingness of the competent authorities to communicate data and information. the seriousness of the incident must not, however, make us lose sight of what we are working hard to achieve in terms of cooperation in criminal matters. we have learned from the most recent terrorist attacks that the exchange of information is a central element in the conduct of investigations in order to give a common and unified response in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. from the information that has been leaked to the press, however, it appears that the computer system was not breached, but that it was human negligence, which is and remains serious. i therefore believe that it is essential, also in connection with the extension of europol's functions, that its director reports to the relevant parliamentary committee in order to better understand what has happened and to know what measures have already been taken to prevent similar incidents from happening in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against terrorism and the fight against cybercrime, which is carried out with complex investigations and sophisticated software. the transmission and storage of data remains a vulnerable point. while waiting for the blockchain, a method launched by bitcoin, to be tested in ordinary data transmission, i have spoken several times about cyber crime, which has offensive potential even in yield devices. with my question of 15 december exactly two years ago, i was asking the commission about the 300 life-saving devices at risk of cyber attack. yesterday, we heard that google has launched android things, the new operating system dedicated to the internet of things, and i wonder how this can be protected from cybercrime. i therefore have no difficulty in considering a sensitive area such as europol data as being completely vulnerable, precisely because of the important contribution it makes to combating the most serious forms of crime, such as drug trafficking, paedophilia, human trafficking, terrorism, fraud and bank card fraud. we need to adopt much, much higher production standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is 'one violence that sows death and destruction'. with these words, pope francis commented on the terrorist attack that hit the coptic community in cairo, which killed 25 people, including many children, and injured many civilians. a horrible crime, committed at the time of prayer at the coptic cathedral of st. mark in abassiya, the oldest church in africa and seat of the pope of alexandria. this is not the first time that terrorism has struck egypt's coptic christian community, which makes up about 10 percent of the population, in a country with a vast muslim majority. the massacre in egypt is particularly serious because it has affected men, women and children whose only fault was that they professed a religion other than that of the terrorists. the international community must react with determination and stand by egypt in the fight against terrorism, without compromising our values and without giving in to populism and religious fanaticism.
in writing. the attack on the coptic st. mark's cathedral in cairo, which left 25 dead and 49 wounded, is seen as a turning point in egypt's ongoing terrorist strategy. the government has declared three days of national mourning for the worst attacks on christian places of worship in a long time. some commentators speculate that this upsurge is an attempt by groups linked to islamic radicalism and isis (primarily present in the sinai area) to increase tension between the copts and president al-sisi. the coptic community, which in 2013 supported the current president against mohamed morsi, supported instead by the muslim brotherhood, is strongly calling for greater commitment to the protection of their living and meeting places. the international community and the eu have a duty to demonstrate by deeds their clear support for this community, the ancient guardian of the origins of christianity, and their opposition to any further destabilisation of the country, which is also experiencing a difficult economic situation with the devaluation of the egyptian lira and the shortage of supplies of basic necessities. our condolences to the patriarch of the egyptian coptic church tawadros.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for having raised the question of the important issue of the recognition, between member states, of the civil status of eu citizens. people in the union are increasingly mobile, and now more than ever, they live or raise a family in another member state. 14 million citizens reside in a member state other than their own, and 13% of all marriages in the union are international. in order to facilitate the free movement of citizens, the union has already adopted a number of legislative instruments. several of these instruments are in the area of family law, and they enable citizens to have a judgment that is easily recognised in another member state on such varied matters such as divorce, legal separation, child custody, children’s visiting rights, parental child abduction, maintenance obligations and succession. earlier this year, parliament played a key role in making possible the swift adoption of provisions on the property regimes of marriages and registered partnerships, which will also facilitate recognition in another member state of judgments on these matters. parliament was also instrumental in reaching, last summer, a balanced compromise with the council on a regulation to simplify the circulation of certain public documents within the union. under the regulation, public documents on civil status issued in one member state will be free of postal requirements when presented to authorities in another member state, and the rules governing certified copies and translations of such public documents will be simpler and avoid language barriers. the commission is aware that, despite existing instruments, citizens may encounter difficulties in having their civil status recognised when they travel or move to another member state. where recognition of civil status is governed by member state law, the union must ensure that citizens can enjoy their right to move freely within the union. in this respect, the court plays a very important role. with regard to a person’s name, the court has already ruled that non-discrimination on grounds of nationality and proportionality must guide member states in their decisions on whether or not to recognise a person’s name. as a result of the court’s ruling, the member states concerned have adopted their legislation or administrative practices on the recognition of names. as for same-sex unions, an important development in the court’s case law is expected. the romanian constitutional court announced in november that it will seek clarification on whether a same-sex couple, a romanian and a united states citizen married in belgium, can be recognised as spouses under romanian law, pursuant to the union provisions on family reunification. the commission, like the court, must ensure that member states apply correctly the union provisions that facilitate the free movement of citizens. in parallel to ensuring the correct application of existing law, the commission has started a reflection process on how to address issues such as the expansion of the scope beyond what is currently covered by the public documents regulation and on the recognition of civil status between member states. in this reflection process, the commission must consider the relevant case law developments in member states’ frameworks and coherence with european union policies. the commission is also ready to continue the exchange with parliament and engage in a dialogue with member states and other relevant actors. the commission contracted in 2012 a study on the recognition of civil status in the union. since then, substantial legal developments have taken place in member states regarding same-sex marriage and registered partnerships. any eventual legislative action would need to be based on updated data and the commission will look into ensuring the availability of the evidence base needed for eventual decisions. the commission will keep parliament and member states informed on its reflection process and views gathered during it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you know how important the freedom of movement of citizens is for the future of europe, just as it has been for the recent past. it was one of the key achievements in the creation of the european institutions. the delay in the commission's presentation of the proposal we are urging is likely to slow down this mobility. the arguments you have used to justify the delay, let me be quite frank, are not convincing. here, in this house, commissioner jourova told us before taking office that the technical work on this subject was already at an advanced stage of implementation. another time has passed and the first measure has never been followed by the second. i think the reason is a political reason, but then it has to be dealt with like this. there are no technical difficulties, there is a resistance in some member states to the issue of family relations being brought into a proposal on registered unions, because that is the issue. but a europe which does not recognize this possibility, which does not recognize the legitimacy of family relations of this nature, is a europe which is embarking on a path which will inevitably lead to its decline. we would like to avoid this decline.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, like many, many members of this house, when i was elected a couple of years ago, i had a dream, that of trying to improve the lives of european citizens in my little job. and so, like all my colleagues, i thought of a europe with less finance and more economy, with less attention to austerity but more investment, with more work, with more social rights. we're working on it. but then this dream is irretrievably shattered, shattered, when it comes to civil rights and, in particular, the civil rights of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex people on our continent. you see, commissioner, we are perpetrating discrimination on our continent because we continue to have families, because that is what it is, who cannot travel, who cannot go around, whose documents are not recognised from one country to another. that's what we're talking about today. you said to us a short while ago that the commission - and some of our colleagues have also said this - is studying, is studying in depth, is analysing, is holding discussions, and is awaiting the court's decisions. but i think it is wrong to continue to rely on the judiciary. we need policy here, we need courage here, we need to take decisions. we have voted on reports on human rights in our continent and in the world, which also dealt with these issues. so in conclusion, commissioner, we often say that the people of europe no longer love europe. i think that this europe is showing that it no longer loves the people of europe. we must either love the people of europe again or we shall hardly have any love for ourselves.
member of the commission. – mr president, of course i see the complexity of the debates and many issues were raised which require all of us to move forward as quickly as possible. the commission appreciates that recognition of civil status within the union would further facilitate the free movement of citizens. no doubt. this is why, in addition to ensuring the correct application of existing law, it is reflecting on how to address this matter. in its reflection, the commission must assess what scope would be most appropriate for any possible initiative in this area. it is therefore too early at this stage to give concrete information on the results of the commission’s reflection. we need to see our outcomes and then to present our results.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on support for victims of thalidomide (2016/3029 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are here today to write a page which we all hope will be useful, a step forward, mr commissioner, i thank you again for your sensitivity, but we really need hard facts. i think that all of us here must say thank you to these men and women who from england, spain, italy and all the countries of europe have come with their associations to continue with strength, with great dignity, with great courage their battle, which they have carried on alone for many, many years. that's why i want to read some words from a woman who lived, got a driver's license, had a family, children, without two arms, without one leg. she says, "we did an experiment a few years ago, and we stood in line, and it was very impressive to me, because i realized that if my mother had taken that pill just eight hours earlier, i would have been born without ears, as well as the injuries to my limbs". now, i believe that the suffering that we perceive when we meet these people demands that we give answers. it has been a long story, of silence, lies, subterfuge, injustice, discrimination within discrimination, because in some countries there are compensations, in others there are fewer, in others there are still no, in italy they have only been compensated since 2008. too little really. and we'll never apologize enough to them for what they went through, and we'll never thank them enough, because they're the reason that pharmacovigilance was born, because because they're the reason that no other children were born with the same problems as them. so, commissioner, i think that we must now insist that what has been demanded, less bureaucracy, compensation at hand, money is there, justice must no longer be denied, this discrimination must be ended, which is one of the most despicable things we are experiencing in europe. if we are the civilized europe we claim to be, we must end this page as soon as possible. thank you all, but especially thank you to these people who are not here, but are really here with us. they're the ones we should be thanking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after more than 50 years the thalidomide issue is still an open question and as the victims get older they have an increasing need for help in dealing with the problems of ageing. there are still categories of patients for whom no compensation has been granted, and i quote the case of the italian victims born in 1957. now that we have an updated picture in some 21 countries of the specific needs and assistance, of the benefits and rights guaranteed to survivors, it is essential that the commission intervenes to ensure a european approach, a fair treatment of all thalidomide patients, overcoming the unjust disparities which still exist not only between member states but also within member states, depending, for example, on the year of birth. i therefore wholeheartedly support the request made by my colleagues, we must stand by these fellow citizens and their families who are paying the price of a serious scandal, which has also given rise to the first european legislation on the safety of medicines. europe exists, it cannot be just a market, but it must be a community which is attentive to the weakest, and we live in the hope that things can change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thalidomide is probably associated with the worst public health disaster ever caused by a drug. it is necessary to fully recognise the claims of surviving thalidomide victims in europe and to guarantee them autonomy, access to medical care and an adequate quality of life. it is paradoxical that after more than 50 years the survivors are still looking for justice and for a compensation solution that would enable them to afford the costly medical treatment necessary for their physical condition. i believe that a framework protocol at european level is needed, under which all european citizens who are victims of thalidomide receive comparable compensation, regardless of the member state of origin. this solution must be seen as an opportunity for the german government to correct a historical error. the final aim is to obtain official recognition of responsibility, including moral responsibility, for what has happened and the creation of a fund to assist thalidomide survivors. these people and their families can no longer be left alone and it is truly intolerable that discrimination continues to be recorded between people on thalidomide in different countries.
now, however, i would like to make a note of the commissioner's reply and to join the great sensitivity expressed by all my colleagues in all the political groups on this matter, because we have all met people who have suffered from these problems, and we certainly owe them justice, closeness and solidarity, and we also owe it to the memory of their families, of all those families, mothers and fathers who have not had justice. we must have this act of moral recognition towards them.
member of the commission. – mr president, i fully and absolutely agree that it is a moral obligation, and of course it is about social justice and the possibility of how to really help those people now, today. of course we are very well aware that we must follow our legal obligations. it is worth repeating that member states are responsible and i tell you once again that i am ready to organise debates with member states’ ministers of health, and to do as i did last year, namely to organise a round table on how to urge governments to understand how it is possible to cooperate, because the member states have the right introduce the open method of coordination and to show solidarity, all together. it is not just germany. no! we will see how we can invite all countries together to resolve this issue. of course industry must also pay the price. it was not enough just to say two decades ago ‘we will solve these problems’, and that’s it. no, because it is an ethical position, a moral obligation and relates to trust in science and industry. i am well aware of this but we all do it together by inviting all actors to solve these problems. i have taken careful note of your comments and views and i appreciate parliament’s decision to discuss those issues tonight. i will of course look at your document and we will do our best once again together. i can see that we must all be involved together in finding a solution to this issue. there is no doubt that we will address those questions.
i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. thalidomide is a drug invented by the german pharmaceutical company chemie grünenthal, which was marketed from 1957 as a sedative, anti-nausea and hypnotic, particularly aimed at pregnant women. it was withdrawn from the market because women treated with thalidomide gave birth to babies with severe congenital limb developmental abnormalities, namely amelia or varying degrees of focomelia. it is estimated that at least 20 000 children were born with severe physical deformities. i believe that full recognition of the claims of surviving thalidomide victims in europe is essential in order to guarantee them autonomy, access to medical care and an adequate quality of life.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on medicinal products for paediatric use by giovanni la via, françoise grossetête, elena gentile, bolesław g. piecha, frédérique ries, stefan eck, joëlle mélin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000135/2016 - b8-1818/2016).
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with this oral question we are making a number of requests to the european commission to improve the legislation on paediatric medicines, which is clearly very important for us as representatives of the european people, but also for the citizens. this is a duty we must assume as politicians, legislators, but also as parents of all sick children in order to save as many young lives as possible. the regulation has had a significant impact on the development of paediatric medicines, acting as a driver for many pharmaceutical companies in product development and research projects, the number of which has increased considerably. but there are improvements and changes that are possible and that we in the european parliament are strongly calling for. we ask the commission to submit a detailed report which fully identifies and analyses in detail the obstacles to innovation in paediatric medicines today. we also call for the possibility of amending the paediatric medicines regulation, including through a legislative review, on the basis of these results, taking due account of a number of important factors, such as paediatric development plans based on the mechanism of action and not just on the type of disease, paediatric investigation plans that are more timely and feasible, research incentives and strategies to avoid off-label use when authorised paediatric medicines exist. this will lead to a number of benefits in terms of lives saved in paediatric oncology, for example, as you are well aware. we also ask that the commission consider amending the regulation so that promising trials are not stopped prematurely because of unsatisfactory results in adults and to support high quality paediatric clinical research. we need to accelerate the development of pediatric drugs, particularly those drugs for neonatology and childhood cancers. i thank the commission for the answers it will give us and we are sure that it will do its utmost to look into this matter, which is a real need for all european citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, ensuring the health of children and maximising their life potential is our common goal. the commission welcomes this debate. it confirms the shared interest of both our institutions to secure the best outcome for children. this debate comes at a timely moment; indeed the commission is preparing a second report to the council and parliament on the paediatric medicines regulation. as honourable members will know, the regulation aims to ensure that we can provide children with quality medicines. this legislative stimulus was deemed necessary because pharmaceutical companies tend to focus mainly on adults. the regulation succeeded in putting the spotlight on developing paediatric therapies. it was a game—changer; companies can no longer ignore paediatric development. it put an end to the dogma that children should be protected from clinical research. instead, children merit the same evidence—based therapies as other age groups. it increased paediatric discharge also in the most vulnerable population of neonates. we now see an increasing number of new products for children entering the market. indeed, more than 900 paediatric development programmes have been agreed under the regulation, and more than 100 have been completed in recent years. but there are also, of course, limitations to what the regulation can achieve. as there is an obligation for it not to regard the development of adult medicines, the additional paediatric research may not address pressing paediatric needs, especially in diseases that occur only in children, such as many paediatric cancers. we are looking closely as this issue in the context of drawing up the second report. at the same time, we are analysing economic impacts with a particular focus on the rewards and incentives. last month, the commission launched a public consultation which will run until february 2017. this exercise is important as it gives everybody an opportunity for their voice to be heard before finalisation of the report. the commission cannot therefore draw conclusions at this stage. we first needed to compare for you the data and gather experiences. the commission is committed to presenting, in the course of 2017, a detailed report on the paediatric regulation. it is our obligation, and on the basis of its findings we will be better placed to continue informed discussions on the best way forward. we are working on common discussions on those issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are dramatically true. every year in europe, six thousand paediatric and adolescent patients lose their lives. many fortunately survive, returning to normal life, but a considerable number will have their lives marked by complications that greatly affect their quality of life. the european paediatric haematology network has called for the promotion of a sustainable long-term strategic plan to make treatment more effective and thus improve the prognosis for those patients for whom the treatments currently available fail to focus on returning them to a life path free of complications. there are few and insufficient resources available for research and experimentation. there is therefore a need to foster a new awareness of the european institutions to ensure that paediatric haematology is not considered as a residual on the european political agenda, but occupies a priority role. this is not just a question for researchers and critics in the field, but also for the many parents' associations in the member states who support the key points of this new strategy, which is aimed at promoting innovative treatments and research aimed at a more precise understanding of the biology of tumours linked to the mechanism of action of the drug. support the european public research network in connection with the diagnostic and treatment institutes, establishing a relationship with the pharmaceutical industry system, simplifying procedures, speeding up administrative steps: i think we can see that this is a more than sustainable goal.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago the commission adopted the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use. we do not deny that this regulation has helped to improve the general situation and to strengthen cooperation in the development of these medicines, but after ten years, a critical review of this text is necessary to eliminate the shortcomings identified so far. children are the most vulnerable group in the population and there are substantial differences from adults in both physiological and psychological terms. we therefore call for the utmost attention to be paid to this subject, which does not allow any delay on the part of the institutions. we are talking about the small number of paediatric investigation plans completed so far and the systematic deferral of paediatric investigations, for example. in the field of research, the problem is always the same. if the development of new molecules remains tied to the expectation that a product will generate a certain profit, we will never get anywhere. as is already happening with antibiotic resistance, so will it be and is already happening with paediatric drugs. i would also like to point out that in paediatric oncology, scientific knowledge of the cellular processes used to test medicines for adults has potential relevance also for the treatment of paediatric cancers, but these medicines must be the subject of specific clinical trials for paediatric use. in addition, many of the cancers that affect young people are rare cancers, and this is another reason why the pharmaceutical industry has little interest in developing drugs in this area. we point out that the present system of rewards and incentives can also be misused or even abused by the pharmaceutical companies. we are not saying that pharmaceutical companies should not make money, but we cannot continue to leave public health in the hands of market logic. that is why we are calling again for the establishment of a public european pharmaceutical company. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that a few days ago the commission launched a public consultation on the experience gained so far. i invite everyone, pharmaceutical companies, doctors, scientists, patient groups and parent groups with back problems to send their contributions to the commission by 20 february 2017.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paediatric medicines regulation has helped to improve the overall situation, bringing tangible benefits for a number of childhood diseases, but many areas have not made significant progress, in particular paediatric oncology and neonatology. the legal requirement to pursue the development of medicinal products for paediatric use is often not observed, as the medicinal products have been developed in pathological conditions typical of adults, which do not occur in children. there are therefore delays in starting clinical trials of childhood cancer medicines because the drug is expected to show promise in adult cancer patients. a legislative revision of this regulation is needed, taking due account of the need to base paediatric development plans on an action mechanism, not just on the type of tumour, and to ensure that paediatric investigation plans are more timely and feasible. finally, particular attention should be paid to the incentive system envisaged in order to stimulate research more and respond more effectively to the needs of the paediatric population, while ensuring the transparency of the research and development process.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, mr la via, i thank you because today we have a good opportunity once again to discuss these very sensitive and very important issues. the health of our children is of vital importance. when they fall sick, we should aim to provide them with high-quality medicines. as you rightly said, mr mikolášik, children are without doubt not just small adults; they have their own specific needs. i appreciate parliament’s initiative to raise this issue during the plenary session tonight. i have taken careful note of your comments and views, and i also think about margot, whom you mentioned, ms grossetête. i also appreciate the parliament’s comments to young people suffering from, for example, narcolepsy. last monday i met members of the european parliament, mairead mcguinness and jørn dohrmann, together with patient representatives, to discuss this issue. let me take this opportunity to express once again my sympathy towards all the patients and their families affected by this terrible condition. remember, colleagues, we are in good time. last year, in march, we launched european reference networks, and more than 300 hospitals voluntarily decided to create such a network. i disagree with those who argue that paediatric oncology is the competence of member states. can you imagine the possibility of treating rare diseases and rare paediatric cancers in the smallest countries where they do have enough medical expertise, clinical trials and possibilities to join with researchers? what can they do in cyprus or in lithuania, and so on? we need to understand that it is not possible to solve those questions at member state level alone. no, we will push our resources, our clinical expertise and, of course, possibilities to properly manage the treatment of rare paediatric cancers, rare paediatric diseases and rare genetic diseases. there is no doubt. as mr mikolášik said, we must be very practical. i agree: we will do it this way. as you know, the commission takes this issue very seriously and has taken a series of actions to ensure these possibilities and to do our best. let me repeat: the commission aims to provide this house and the council in 2017 with a comprehensive report on the paediatric regulation which will serve as a solid basis for future discussions. thank you once again for your interest.
at the end of the debate i received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall analysis of the report in question shows in a comprehensive way the positive aspects, the critical points and the shortcomings, sometimes even serious ones, found during 2015 in relation to the activities carried out by the committee on petitions. in general, it can be said that the role of listening to the relevant problems affecting citizens was played satisfactorily in the development of the work carried out. however, the mere treatment of petitions submitted in the exercise of the right to petition recognised by the treaties cannot be the only answer that the european institutions can provide. the credibility of the petition tool and the conviction of the public that it is effective lies primarily in its ability to put an end to the very serious violations alleged, especially if, as we have seen, the complaints cover a number of very sensitive areas and matters which are in fact directly related to the overall framework of fundamental rights, which the european institutions have a duty to safeguard fully and unfailingly. there are obviously glaring shortcomings on this issue. the reaction of the european institutions has in fact been weak and delayed, if not ineffective, despite the fact that the content of the petitions reveals an increasingly widespread social and economic distress, with the persistence or even aggravation of highly critical situations. the right to petition therefore remains a crucial tool for citizens to continue their work of complaint and democratic control. it is clear, however, that only the political will to ensure effective protection of fundamental rights, to guarantee full transparency, to guarantee the direct involvement of citizens in decision-making processes, and to really implement the most sensitive requests, can make it possible to believe that the european union still has a social vocation, by providing a real democratic governance. i am very grateful to mr vallina for his work, because this report is a very good report and i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start with a fact: in 2015, the european parliament received 1,431 petitions, a drop of 43% compared to 2014. you might think that the reasons for petitioning have diminished, that citizens are therefore satisfied, but we know that this is not the case. this is an indication of the mistrust and alienation of european citizens from europe and its institutions, and this is also reflected in a democratic, transparent and effective instrument such as the possibility for citizens to initiate direct dialogue with parliament by submitting a petition. the committee on petitions works very, very hard and very well. the number of petitions declared inadmissible is reduced and the processing time is speeded up. it is the window, the front office of the european citizens, it must continue its work, indeed it must have more opportunities, more means, this work must be strengthened because we often work with great difficulty and only in this way will we bring europe closer to the citizens.
author. – madam president, once again we take note of this serious violation and restriction that the chinese government casually adopts in the implementation of its policies to all those who stand apart from and oppose the line dictated by the state. in tibet the latest violation is this time against nuns and monks who inhabit one of the most representative buddhist institutions, that of larung gar. here the chinese authorities have decided to reduce the number of inhabitants by more than half, which amounts to nearly 10 000, and then to begin on major indiscriminate demolition work. i would also recall here the case of ilham tohti, the uighur university professor sentenced to life imprisonment by the chinese authorities, who on 11 october was awarded the 2016 martin ennals award for human rights defenders. he was also a victim of the tyrannical intransigence of the chinese government and he gave voice to the uighur people, which is a muslim minority in the xinjiang region strongly discriminated against by the central government. it seems that the government always decides to respond with extreme and unsuitable means when it comes to situations of political dissent. this is highly unacceptable. for years, china has made a mockery of international treaties aimed at the defence and protection of human rights and mocks its own constitution. we must ensure that they are fairly respected instead and, to do so, bring our political dialogue with this country to a new level.
mr. chairman, i want to support this resolution and the way my colleagues are acting. on the other hand, i want to express a certain scepticism. i spoke on the rohingya issue on the floor of this parliament a few months ago. we passed a similar resolution that clearly expressed and expresses how the rohingya are discriminated against in their country, burma. after a few months, the situation is the same, and worse. following the 9 october incident, the situation of this minority has deteriorated significantly and the area where these people live is being sealed off by government troops. basically, we only have transferred information. i am prepared to support this resolution again, but i must say frankly that i am very disappointed with the way the government of burma is behaving at the moment. i am very disappointed that the sakharov prize winner, mrs suu kyi, is doing nothing in principle to improve the situation of this minority and i fear that this resolution will not make much of a difference. so much more international pressure is needed on burma to start actively addressing the situation of this minority.
member of the commission. – mr president, the current upsurge of violence in northern rakhine state, resulting in the loss of lives, population displacement, interruption to humanitarian aid, and reports of grave human rights violations are a deeply worrying development. the european union has consistently called on the government of myanmar to guarantee respect for human rights and pursue durable solutions, including on the status of the rohingya. the eu ambassador was part of the first diplomatic mission which, in early november, visited the affected areas after the outbreak of violence. on 20 and 24 november 2016, eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, travelled to myanmar for the third eu—myanmar human rights dialogue. he also met with state chancellor, aung san suu kyi and the commander—in—chief of the myanmar armed forces. with these interlocutors, the european union special representative called for the urgent resumption of humanitarian assistance in northern rakhine state and the setting up of an independent, credible investigation into the 9 october assaults and subsequent operations. he underlined the need for transparency to address allegations of severe human rights violations and emphasised the continuity of initiatives launched by the state chancellor to tackle the underlying issues in rakhine state. with the commander—in—chief, mr lambrinidis urged a proportionate response to violence, a requirement under international humanitarian law. echo director androulla kaminara visited myanmar during the same period. in her meeting she strongly called for full humanitarian access to northern rakhine state, where the suspension of activities has deprived some 130 000 vulnerable people of life-saving assistance for over two months now. on 2 december, the eu issued a statement reiterating the call for the immediate resumption of humanitarian activities in the area. while the formation of an investigation commission is a welcome step, its objectivity remains to be seen. it is equally important that those fleeing violence in myanmar are not deported or turned back by bangladesh, but are provided with assistance and protection until the situation in myanmar allows for their safe return. in response to regional pressure, myanmar has called for an extraordinary meeting of asean foreign ministers on 19 december to discuss rakhine state. steadfast eu advocacy has contributed to the resumption of humanitarian activities, albeit limited, and we will continue to reach out to myanmar. we stand ready to consider further humanitarian assistance for northern rakhine state, based on the independent needs assessment of our partners. the eu will also continue our human rights cooperation with myanmar, including in the united nations human rights council.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2016
the agenda includes seven motions for resolutions on common ground for iraq1 (2016/3028 ((rsp)). 1 and see the minutes.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, daesh has long been the protagonist of atrocious crimes against humanity. the images of violence and oppression of minorities, as well as the destruction of sacred sites, sites of inestimable cultural heritage, are the symbol of the blind rage of these terrorists who want to erase everything that deviates from their fundamentalist dictates. the yazidi population is one of the main victims of the strategy of ethnic cleansing which we have to classify with the term genocide. when daesh took over the sinjar region between mosul and the syrian border in 2014, it cut the yazidi minority in half, killing the men and raping and selling their women into slavery. seventy-two mass graves have been discovered in the region and some 15,000 bodies have been recovered. on tuesday, the european parliament awarded and presented the sakharov prize to two young yazidi women for taking forward and winning the battle in defence of their people. we must be on the ground with this resolution to ensure respect for human rights and bring to justice those responsible for these crimes against humanity in the framework of the international criminal court.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crimes of daesh, especially against the yazidis and ethnic minorities in iraq, are notorious. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the risk to be avoided is the erasure of crucial evidence for a future trial, as well as the impossibility of identifying the bodies of the victims. in our recent history we have experienced genocide and in recent times, 20 years ago, we were helpless in the face of crimes committed on our doorstep and now we live with too much indifference the drama of aleppo. yesterday we applauded the courage of two girls. we have a duty to bring justice to them and their people, and that is why the debate and the debate we are having today are very important.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, daesh has committed unspeakable crimes and egregious violations of human rights in iraq. as the iraqi security forces advance in their operation to liberate mosul, the true scale of daesh atrocities is becoming apparent, with the troubling discovery of new mass graves. daesh crimes have affected all iraqis; however, some minorities have been particularly targeted, among them the yazidi community. we all remember those horrific moments in august 2014 with the shocking exodus of the yazidi population from sinjar. nadia murad, the united nations office for drugs and crimes goodwill ambassador for the dignity of survivors of human trafficking, together with lamiya aji bashar, winner of the sakharov prize 2016, have become the voice for the voiceless victims of human trafficking not just in iraq, but around the world. we deeply admire their courage and strong determination. nadia and lamiya can count on our full support in fulfilling their tasks as peace builders and as role models for women and girls. in the eu regional strategy for syria and iraq as well as the isil—daesh threat of 16 march 2015, we put special emphasis on sexual and gender-based violence. the eu has been at the forefront of calling for the respect of the rule of law and human rights in iraq, in particular the fundamental rights of minorities. we believe that the preservation of a multi-ethnic and multi-confessional iraqi society is the only way to put an end to the vicious circle of violence and to promote reconciliation. it is essential to bring people to account for committing atrocities such as those that befell communities in iraq at the hands of daesh. in this regard, the eu is willing to support a global campaign to bring daesh to justice, as suggested by the uk, belgium and iraq, and the idea of the independent investigative commission on daesh crimes. as we speak, reports are appearing of reprisals and executions carried out against civilians and even humanitarian workers in eastern aleppo, by forces who claim they are fighting terrorism but are themselves spreading terror among communities they are attacking. we want to underline here that those responsible will be held accountable for their actions. such war crimes will not be left unrecorded or unpunished and the perpetrators need to be aware of that now.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the following report is to implement a visa waiver suspension system and to re-introduce the visa requirement for third country nationals entering europe, even for short periods. although the mechanism already exists, it is considered too complicated to be activated, hence the need to introduce a new one that is less complicated and easier to implement. i believe that the proposed mechanism could be useful in future visa waivers, so i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite some positive aspects of this report, i do not share the practical aspects of the current developments in the european management of immigration and the geopolitical situation in the eastern partnership, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ visa policy is a key issue for the european union and has implications for both external action and internal security. it is because of its importance that it is clearly regulated as an area of shared competence between the co-legislators by the ordinary procedure. while the demand for greater security by european citizens is understandable and correct, the increased flexibility in visa suspension procedures must nevertheless be accompanied by a robust set of guarantees and measures to protect human rights, as well as by reports and statistics provided by european agencies and competent law enforcement authorities. this is the only way to guarantee the rights of third country nationals and to safeguard the principles of eu visa policy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation in question which will make the visa suspension mechanism faster and more flexible. visa policy is a key issue for the european union in terms of its impact on both external action and internal security. the current level of migration, in particular in the light of subsequent visa liberalisation processes, required a review of the suspension mechanism. the adopted regulation will provide the european union with sound tools to deal with various circumstances, such as unfounded asylum applications, refusal of readmission applications or large and sudden increases in the number of irregular immigrants on european territory. but the increased flexibility will be accompanied by a robust set of safeguards and measures to protect human rights, as well as reports and statistics provided by european agencies and competent law enforcement authorities. this is the only way to guarantee the rights of third country nationals and safeguard the principles of the union's visa policy.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the revision is to facilitate and make more practical the activation of the visa waiver suspension mechanism and the reintroduction of the visa requirement for third-country nationals travelling to europe for short stays. the compromise reached by the institutions consists of two stages: in the first phase, which will last for nine months, an implementing act will be used to re-introduce the visa requirement for certain categories of persons. during this first stage, the commission will open a dialogue with the country concerned. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by establishing a list of the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when entering the territory of the union.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this report is to change the visa suspension and exemption mechanism. the positive aspects of the proposal relate to the increase in the conditions under which the visa requirement can be reintroduced. however, the european management of immigration and the current geopolitical situation do not allow us to support this report. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because political and migration developments, particularly in the light of the subsequent visa liberalisation processes, require that the suspension mechanism be revised to make it faster and more flexible. however, increased flexibility must be accompanied by a robust set of safeguards and measures to protect human rights, as well as the development of reports and statistics provided by european agencies and competent law enforcement authorities.
in writing. ‒ the regulation listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa when crossing the external borders of the member states and the third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement provides for a suspension mechanism allowing the exemption from the visa requirement for third-country nationals to be temporarily suspended in certain emergency situations. in line with this resolution, i support the review of the suspension mechanism, so that it is easier and quicker for member states to notify the circumstances leading to the activation of the mechanism. however, such flexibility must be accompanied by a set of safeguards to protect the human rights of third-country nationals, as the imposition of the visa requirement is a very strict political measure, although necessary in some circumstances. i believe that the member states' need to address the challenges of security and the number of irregular residents in the eu territory must go hand in hand with the protection of the fundamental rights of third country nationals.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of making the suspension mechanism faster and more flexible in order to manage more effectively the migration flows entering the eu and security on european territory. i hope, however, that greater flexibility will be accompanied by a set of guarantees to protect the human rights of third-country nationals and to safeguard the principles of eu visa policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 adopting the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism) because, in the light of the substantial migratory flows from third countries, a revision of the visa liberalisation regulation is necessary. i am convinced that the review of the visa liberalisation suspension mechanism for third country nationals must go hand in hand with the protection of individual rights and that a truthful and objective analysis of the data collected in respect of the applications submitted is the only way forward to protect and guarantee the rights of every individual and safeguard the principles of european migration policy. the political developments in migration require a strong involvement of the european parliament, which must play a leading role in the definition of eu rules. the court's judgment thus puts the two co-legislators on an equal footing.
in writing. this regulation introduces criteria to address distortions arising from the implementation of the eu visa policy. by adopting measures with immediate effect, the european commission will be able to temporarily suspend the granting of short-stay visas in the event that the application is found to be inconsistent with the potential for eligibility. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has obtained during the negotiation phase the derogation that, if the suspension of visas for a given country is necessary for a period of more than 18 months, it will have to be applied by means of delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on third countries whose nationals are subject to or exempt from the visa requirement revision of the suspension mechanism. visa policy is a fundamental issue for the european union and has implications for both external and internal action. the increased flexibility must be accompanied by a robust set of safeguards and measures to protect human rights, as well as reports and statistics provided by european agencies and competent law enforcement authorities. this is the only way to guarantee the rights of third country nationals and to safeguard the principles of eu visa policy i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ the amendments proposed by this resolution are aimed at protecting our market and our consumers. in particular, it is required that fruit placed on the european market be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate, which contains information on inspections carried out during growth and tests carried out on certain samples. more controls are also called for at the points of entry into the union. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution by voting against an amendment proposed by the commission which, in an annex, actually seeks to reduce the monitoring instruments for black spot and citrus canker in citrus imported for juice processing.
in writing. ‒ consumer protection must always be a priority in the legislator's action. the european union recognises the right to health as a fundamental right of european citizens and promotes and protects it, primarily through prevention. it is the precautionary principle that leads us to block the import and trade of organisms harmful to plants or edible plant products, by making their list clear and up to date and by keeping the legislator vigilant.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the objection to the draft implementing directive amending annexes i to v to the directive on protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community. the draft directive in question is contrary to the objectives of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 as it infringes the requirements for the introduction into the union of certain fruits susceptible to harmful organisms and is incompatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031 to determine the plant health risks posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animal or plant pests harmful to plants or plant products and measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level. the objection is that the directive in question should be re-submitted to parliament once it has been amended as suggested.
in writing. ‒ the amendments proposed by this resolution are designed to protect our market and our consumers. fruit entering the european market is required to be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate, which contains information on treatments against phyllosticta citricarpa, inspections of fruit in growth, and samples and tests of certain samples. the commission is also proposing to increase checks at the points of entry into the european union and to refuse entry if the fruit shows symptoms. another important element of this resolution is the traceability requirements for all fruit entering the european market. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i vote for it. the report intends to reject a european commission amendment proposal which would reduce the control instruments on harmful plant products that are imported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which considers that the draft commission directive is not in line with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) no 2031/2016, which is to determine the phytosanitary risks of any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agents, animal or plant pests harmful to plants or plant products ('pests') and the measures to reduce those risks to an acceptable level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 protection measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community concerning community measures to help prevent the introduction into the eu of new pests attacking citrus fruit because the existing legislation is not sufficient to protect european producers. i believe that stricter rules and controls are needed to prevent the spread of pests such as citrus black spot and falsa cydia. the draft commission implementing directive does not reduce the risk of harmful organisms being imported into the eu to an acceptable level and therefore stricter rules are needed. for this reason i have argued that fruit originating in third countries should be visually inspected at the point of entry into the eu and that such inspections should be carried out on samples of at least 200 fruits per 30 tonne consignment. i also shared the european parliament's call for citrus fruit to be subjected to cold treatment or to an alternative, sustainable, effective and equivalent treatment before being imported into the eu, and for measures to improve the traceability of imported citrus fruit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because the implementation of the directive against the introduction of harmful organisms into plants must be much more effective than the commission's plans and the european parliament must be vigilant. we have already suffered the catastrophic consequences of the introduction into the european union of plant viruses which have brought thousands of farmers to their knees. we are still counting the damage caused by xylella, and we are calling on the commission to take more seriously the high number of interceptions of infected citrus fruit from south africa. i voted in favour of introducing a more precise certification system and more effective border controls, visual checks on a sample of at least 200 fruits of each species. and then there's the traceability. all operators, from the production area to the transport operators, must be registered, as must all movements and refrigeration treatments of the products.
in writing. a resolution was adopted today in strasbourg which contains corrections to the european commission's draft amendment containing a series of protective measures against the introduction and spread of organisms harmful to plants or plant products on our territory. these are measures which we in parliament want to correct and improve, also in order to bring them into line with the entry into force of the new regulation introducing the so-called plant passport. the proposal provides that fruit from third countries must be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate authorizing its entry, and that a declaration must be made that the fruit originates from a production area which has undergone appropriate treatment against citrus black spot, a pest which can destroy our citrus trees. the damage caused to our agriculture by plant diseases caused by viruses introduced by the importation of products from third countries is enormous. i have been fighting for some time to protect our ornamental heritage from pathogens from third countries, and i believe that supporting this request will have a positive effect.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide is a drug invented by the german pharmaceutical company chemie grünenthal and marketed from 1957 as an anti-nausea sedative and hypnotic, particularly for pregnant women. it was withdrawn from the market because women treated with thalidomide gave birth to babies with severe congenital limb developmental abnormalities, namely amelia or varying degrees of focomelia. it is estimated that at least 20 000 children with severe physical deformities were born. i voted in favour of the report, considering it essential that the claims of surviving thalidomide victims in europe be fully recognised, so that they can be granted autonomy, access to medical care and a decent quality of life.
in writing. ‒ since the german pharmaceutical company chemie grünenthal introduced thalidomide, an antiemetic medicine also intended for pregnant women, in 1957, at least 20 000 children with severe physical deformities and focomelia have been born in europe. the number of survivors of that horror is now about 4,000, of whom 450 are italians. i, together with lega nord, since 2014 have been in contact with european representatives of the associations that bring together italian and european talidomists and i have always supported their battle by presenting various parliamentary activities. on 9 march, during the strasbourg plenary session, commissioner andriukaitis spoke and strongly stressed the importance of ensuring that victims of thalidomide receive financial support, medical care and full social inclusion. both the joint resolution and the one tabled by our group therefore take up the conclusions of that debate and confirm parliament's full support for the victims of what can reasonably be considered the worst collective disaster ever caused by a drug. in view of these considerations, i cannot but strongly support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on the commission and the member states to ensure that community citizens who are victims of thalidomide receive fair compensation. more than 50 years after the tragedy of thalidomide, a morning sickness medicine for pregnant women, which caused the malformation of their newborn babies in several eu countries, victims are still fighting for fair compensation. we want coordinated action and measures to be taken to officially recognise and compensate the surviving victims.
in writing. ‒ from the late 1950s to 1961, thalidomide, a drug used at the time to reduce morning sickness in pregnant women, caused 20,000 disabled children and 100,000 people with permanent disabilities. thalidomide survivors are still waiting for adequate compensation, some form of community assistance, public recognition of their plight. we call on the german government to remedy a tragic mistake made 60 years ago, to find a just solution to the difficulties faced by people like him. thalidomide was introduced to the market in west germany in 1957 as an over-the-counter medicine to promote sleep and relieve symptoms of nausea in pregnant women. according to the company that makes it, chemie grünenthal, it's non-addictive and completely safe, even in pregnancy. by 1960 it was being sold with great success in 46 countries. in 1961 australian gynecologist william mcbride and german pediatrician widukind lenz demonstrated the correlation between malformations in newborns and the use of the drug during pregnancy. thalidomide was consequently withdrawn from the market. the european parliament has called on the commission to adopt a formal recognition for victims in the light of scientific and legal research confirming the responsibility of thalidomide.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on thalidomide, which calls for a framework protocol at european level under which all european citizens who are victims of thalidomide receive comparable compensation, regardless of the member state of origin. thalidomide represents the worst public health disaster ever caused by a drug. it was marketed by chemie grünenthal gmbh in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a safe drug for the treatment of headaches, coughs, insomnia, and colds. it has caused the death and deformation of thousands of children in many european countries when taken by pregnant women. it is a scandal that, after almost 60 years, survivors are still seeking justice and a compensatory solution that will enable them to afford the costly necessary care related to their physical condition. the report calls for the full recognition of the claims of surviving thalidomide victims in europe, so as to guarantee them autonomy, access to medical care and an adequate quality of life.
in writing. ‒ since the german pharmaceutical company chemie grünenthal introduced the anti-nausea drug thalidomide on the european market in 1957, at least 20 000 children with severe physical deformities have been born. thousands of people affected by such malformations (500 in italy) have never received full and fair compensation for the damage suffered. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide is an antiemetic medicine also intended for pregnant women which was introduced to the european market in 1957 by the german pharmaceutical company chemie grünenthal. it is estimated that the side effects of the medicine on pregnant women have caused the birth of at least 20 000 babies with severe physical deformities. the resolution, for which i thought i would vote in favour, calls on the member states and the commission to formally recognise the surviving victims of thalidomide in europe and to provide them with appropriate compensation. in particular, as this is the most serious collective disaster ever caused by a medicinal product, i believe that the commission should draw up a community protocol allowing all victims of thalidomide to obtain compensation of the same amount regardless of the member state of origin. i also think it is necessary to draw up a programme at european level to provide financial and medical assistance and support to the victims and their families. i also think it is appropriate that the german federal government should allow thalidomide survivors, recognised as such by the courts, access to the special health fund for thalidomide disabled persons.
in writing. - i vote for it. our group fully supports the victims of thalidomide, an antiemetic medicine for pregnant women. the harm that the drug did to these women's children was terrible; in europe, about 20 000 newborns have been diagnosed with severe physical malformations and focomellia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure as it calls on the commission to establish a framework protocol at european level so that all european citizens who are victims of thalidomide receive compensation of a similar amount, regardless of their member state of origin, and to develop an eu programme of assistance and support (including financial and social provisions) for thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ the thalidomide case is one of the most serious collective disasters ever caused by a medicinal product, whose investigations into irregularities have revealed gaps in pharmacovigilance by the states which have placed it on their market. i believe it is important to provide thalidomide survivors with financial support to meet their increasing medical expenses, recognising the need to find an appropriate solution for all survivors, so as to ensure that their quality of life is protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on thalidomide as it calls for full recognition of the claims of surviving thalidomide victims in europe, so as to achieve comparable compensation between the different member states that can guarantee them autonomy and access to medical care and a decent quality of life. the thalidomide scandal remains one of the most disastrous events in pharmaceutical history, and after sixty years the surviving victims are still seeking justice, recognition and adequate compensation.
in writing. ‒ the drug thalidomide was marketed in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a safe drug to treat issues such as morning sickness and headaches but it resulted in the death and malformation of thousands of babies when used by pregnant women in a variety of european countries. reports have concluded that thalidomide survivors need an increasing amount of support for their unmet health needs, as their bodies are rapidly deteriorating owing to the nature of their disabilities and to the lack of support over the years. it is horrible that many of these survivors often are unable to get funding to cover social services costs, which is currently the single biggest concern for thalidomide survivors. given this, i support the resolution in urging member states and the commission to coordinate and take action to formally recognise and compensate thalidomide survivors. the commission should take action at eu level so that all eu citizens affected by thalidomide could receive similar amounts of compensation, regardless of member state. lastly, i support the resolution in calling on grünenthal to shoulder its responsibilities – by providing compensation and care to those victims who have yet to be recognised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on support for survivors of thalidomide, a drug that causes malformations in newborns, because i believe that recognising the right of all victims, not only to moral and economic compensation but also to adequate treatment by the health systems and the duty to make social rights enforceable, is an act that can no longer be postponed fifty years after the thalidomide tragedy. the resolution calls on germany to take a very responsible step and calls on all member states to promote immediate action to ensure that patients and their families are given the attention they deserve. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway. the commission should establish a framework protocol at european level so that all european citizens who are victims of thalidomide receive compensation of a similar amount and develop an eu programme of assistance and support for victims and their families.
in writing. this motion for a resolution calls on the member states and the commission to promote action to recognise and compensate victims of thalidomide. it's a drug that was sold in the '50s and '60s as a sedative, anti-nausea and hypnotic to pregnant women. it was withdrawn from the market in late 1961, after being distributed in 50 countries under forty different trade names. women treated with thalidomide gave birth to babies with severe congenital limb development disorders, namely either amyloid (no limbs) or varying degrees of phocomelia (reduction of the long bones of the limbs). the aim of this initiative is to provide and guarantee assistance and support to both victims and their families and to compensate them for the damage suffered.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is balanced and acceptable, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the paediatric medicines regulation has had a significant impact on the development of medicines for infants and children, as many pharmaceutical companies consider paediatric development as an integral part of the overall development of a medicinal product. the number of paediatric research projects has increased significantly and more high-quality information on approved medicines is available. in addition, the relative number of successful paediatric clinical trials has also increased. however, there is still room for potential improvement, for example on financial rewards for paediatric drug development which are too often modest in number and size, with a rewards system that needs to be reviewed to give greater incentives to pharmaceutical companies to research and develop paediatric drugs, especially in the oncology field. we also need to promote much wider access to innovative therapies that can save the lives of children and adolescents with life-threatening diseases.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which offers valuable suggestions to the commission to improve the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use. the paediatric medicines regulation has had a significant impact on the development of medicines for paediatric use. since its entry into force, many pharmaceutical companies have considered paediatric development as an integral part of their overall product development activity. the number of paediatric research projects has increased significantly and more high-quality information on the paediatric use of approved medicines is now available. however, this regulation has several shortcomings. financial mechanisms for rewards and incentives for the development of paediatric medicinal products, such as marketing authorisation for paediatric use, are late and have limited effect. the current system of rewards should be reviewed to determine how it could be improved to further stimulate research and development of paediatric medicines. in addition, paediatric investigation plans (pips) are too often impractical or started too late with the medicinal product. the resolution proposes a revision of the current pip system in order to improve it by limiting the speculation of pharmaceutical companies on the incentives offered.
in writing. ‒ the oral question and resolution adopted by the envi committee concern the review of regulation 1901/2006 on medicinal products for paediatric use, in particular paediatric investigation plans and paediatric oncology. the main topics covered are the incidence of cancer in children, chemotherapy treatments and innovative therapies, the development of anti-cancer drugs by pharmaceutical companies, clinical trials. the elements introduced are positive and i have therefore voted in favour without any doubt.
in writing. ‒ the european paediatric medicines regulation has established a specific regulatory framework which has had a very significant impact on the development of paediatric medicines. the regulation has helped to achieve significant progress in sensitive areas such as paediatric oncology and neonatology and has also given a real boost to research in this field. research has played a key role in addressing serious healthcare gaps and has been credited with identifying and bringing to market specific and authorised paediatric medicines. most of the medicines currently on the market, however, are not authorised for specific use in children. i am therefore convinced that investment and encouragement in paediatric research is needed to give a greater impetus to innovation in paediatric medicines. i hope that the european commission will soon take up new legislative initiatives in such a vital area of health. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because the paediatric medicines regulation was adopted ten years ago to ensure high quality research in the development of medicines for children and for the purpose of appropriate authorisation of such medicines. the measure asks the commission whether it intends to revise the regulation to bring it up to date with the new requirements.
in writing. ‒ childhood cancer results in the death of 6 000 young people each year in europe and it is the biggest cause of death by disease in children over one year old. treatment-related side effects are also a major problem as two thirds of those who survive suffer from side effects. to improve the situation for these children and to ensure the best framework to develop new treatments i support calling on the commission to deliver the report on the paediatric medicines regulation. there is currently a need for a comprehensive identification and an in-depth analysis of the obstacles hampering innovation in this field. based on the report there needs to be a review of issues such as disease and drug prioritisation models, how to provide incentives that better stimulate research and more effectively serve the needs of the paediatric population – among others. the commission also needs to review the possibility of different types of funding and rewards and how they best can be utilised to drive and accelerate paediatric drug development.
in writing. statistics show that cancer remains the leading cause of death by disease in children, that 6 000 young people die of cancer in europe every year and that two thirds of patients who survive the disease suffer from the effects of medical treatment. the paediatric medicines regulation has led to a development in treatment and a considerable increase in paediatric research which now provides more information on the use of paediatric medicine. the committee therefore considers that the pharmaceutical market offers restrictive incentives for the development of paediatric medicines and calls on the commission to present a report on paediatric medicines highlighting the obstacles currently limiting innovation and treatment, to outline how best to use funds to accelerate the development of treatments for the different types of childhood cancer and to strengthen the role of the european paediatric clinical trials network by ensuring that all member states promote instruments to support the research, development and availability of paediatric medicines. in the name of a better future for our children and to save many young lives, i strongly support the demands made today.
in writing. ‒ the peti committee is the european parliament committee dealing with petitions within the european union. a report describing the activities of the committee is drawn up each year. the one we voted on in this session was for the year 2015. i share with the rapporteur many of the points in the report, such as the importance of the experience of those who propose and sign petitions, the importance of petitions in the legislative process and the need to take further steps to complete the web portal for petitions, which will allow everyone to receive real-time information on the status of petitions. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ statistics show that in 2015 the european parliament received 1 431 petitions, a decrease of 47% compared to 2 714 in 2014. after a peak in the number of petitions received in 2013 and 2014, the sharp decrease in 2015 indicates, in my view, a clear reversal of trend that should be a wake-up call, especially in relation to the often slow and uncertain procedures, especially in the communication by the commission to applicants. for these reasons, i could not support the 2015 annual report of the committee on petitions with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition is a pillar of european citizenship. the 2015 annual report aims to provide an overview of the work of the committee on petitions, whose timetable does not correspond to the commission's legislative programme but is set by citizens who, in exercising their right to petition the european parliament, express their concerns about the different union policies and legislative measures. the data show that 36.3% of petitions were considered and 63.7% were archived because the signatories continue to confuse national competences with those of the european union, and the eu institutions with the council of europe or the court of human rights. this shows that more needs to be done to better inform citizens about the right to petition and what they can achieve by exercising this right before the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of approving the report of the peti committee on its activities in 2015. petitions are a valuable source of firsthand information based on citizens' experiences and help to identify possible violations and gaps in the implementation of eu legislation at national level. parliament's involvement in these procedures allows for additional control over the investigative activities of the relevant european institutions. however, the number of petitions received remains modest compared to the overall population of the european union, indicating that the vast majority of eu citizens and residents are still unaware of the existence of the right to petition and its potential benefits. the recent creation of an internet portal where people can register, petition and join petitions already declared admissible is an important simplification, but more needs to be done, especially to raise awareness of this right as a powerful tool for direct participation in democratic life. it is also essential to improve cooperation with national parliaments, their relevant committees and member state governments to ensure that petitions are dealt with by the authorities competent to take action.
in writing. ‒ this report analyses the work of the committee on petitions during 2015. the report clearly shows the importance of petitions as a very useful tool in the legislative process to identify shortcomings, while providing other parliamentary committees with useful and direct input for their work. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report 2015, which is the summary of the activities of the committee on petitions, as it emphasises the increasingly important role of this institution, within the european parliament, in the legislative process. petitions are an important indicator of citizens' concerns about the decisions of national authorities and the shortcomings in the application of european legislation, as a result of incorrect transposition of such legislation or failure to apply community rules. it is important that petitions are not left open indefinitely without specific investigations and that they are not a tool used incorrectly during national election campaigns.
in writing. ‒ the resolution voted on is acceptable and seems well thought out. i believe that the commission should be more transparent in the negotiation procedures for amending and creating international airline agreements, and i believe that the european parliament should be more involved in all these stages. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, several acquisitions of shareholdings in european companies by companies from third countries have generated discussion and excitement in public opinion. the commission's forecasts have also been overly optimistic on the positive effects of aviation agreements. it should therefore be recalled that, under article 218 (10) tfeu, the council and the commission are required to inform parliament immediately and fully at all stages of the negotiating procedures for new agreements in this field and that parliament is called upon to assess objectively and in good conscience whether or not such agreements should be concluded in the sole interest of the citizens of the european union and international security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution in question today, which calls for greater involvement of parliament in the negotiations the commission is conducting with japan and china on aviation security agreements and with the association of southeast asian nations (asean), turkey, qatar and the united arab emirates on eu-level air services agreements. the report calls for parliament to be informed at the outset of the negotiation process so that it can decide whether or not to give its consent. it is also in the interest of the other institutions to identify and address early on any matter of sufficient importance to call into question parliament's willingness to give its consent. the additional requirement is that the information be provided in full and in detail, i.e. in such a way as to enable him to express his opinion.
in writing. ‒ as part of the aviation strategy for europe, the european commission has proposed to open negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china and on eu-wide air services with china, turkey, mexico, six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean. i would remind you that parliament's approval is required for the conclusion of international agreements. the criteria by which parliament assesses transboundary agreements for approval include full and mutual recognition of certification practices and procedures, the exchange of safety data, joint inspections, enhanced regulatory cooperation and technical consultations to resolve problems before the dispute settlement mechanism is activated. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater involvement of parliament in the process of establishing international agreements in the field of aviation. the european commission is therefore urged to implement shared and transparent approaches to the issues in question. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i share the need for an aviation strategy for europe that strengthens its industrial base and its position as a world leader in the air transport sector. multimodality needs to be encouraged. given the need for ever greater efficiency in existing infrastructure and the rationalisation of investment, it is clear that the benefits of the complementarity of all modes of transport are still under-utilized. i also share the need to continue improving safety and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ there are a number of critical issues addressed in this resolution. the first concerns the real risk that certain negotiations will lead to unbalanced agreements which are unfavourable to european airlines, in particular as regards distortions of competition caused by state aid to third-party airlines. secondly, safety, security and the quality of passenger services were considered as key elements to guide the negotiations in these areas. thirdly, it is important to talk about the trust of citizens in the european and national institutions, which should be responsible for defending their interests, a trust that is undermined by the secrecy with which the commission wraps up the negotiations, as is also the case with those taking place in the context of ceta, ttip and tisa. for these reasons i believe that this text succeeds in addressing some of the key problems concerning international aviation agreements and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as the framework agreement states that the european parliament should receive regular and full details of all procedures during the negotiations of international aviation agreements – if necessary this should be done on a confidential basis. given this, the commission should provide the parliament’s committee responsible information about its intention on negotiations to conclude and amend international air agreements. i support the resolution in expecting the commission to reach an arrangement with the council and with the negotiating partners so that members of the european parliament can have access to all the relevant documents. with these documents, the negotiating directives and consolidated texts should be included so that the european parliament is on an equal footing with the council. parliamentary scrutiny of these agreements from the directly elected representatives of the people of europe is crucial for the democratic legitimacy of these negotiations and agreements and this deficit in representation needs to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in aviation has seen several european and american airlines report to their respective public authorities distortions of competition stemming from state aid to certain third country airlines. parliament called on the commission to protect community workers and passengers in particular by carefully considering the possibility of opening up european airspace to non-european airlines. the situation is even more dramatic when one considers that some of these companies are experiencing a significant expansion while many european companies are facing considerable financial difficulties. we therefore call for the current regulatory situation to be addressed, considering that the challenges linked to the agreements affect the safety, security and quality of services offered to passengers and affect the future of european airlines and the aviation industry. finally, the outcome of the negotiations must not lead to a renegotiation of the rules downwards, with inevitable negative consequences both in terms of safety and the working conditions of employees in the sector.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the commissioner. we have been talking officially about a customs union since 1968, but i must say that today we are far from a customs union in the true sense of the word, because if it were a 'union' we should have the same tariffs, but also the same rules. unfortunately, this is not the case, customs clearance practices vary from one state to another and if we talk about sanctions we find absurdities, ranging from the payment of simple fines to even criminal consequences in some states. what is the practical consequence of this approach? that those countries which apply the rules more lightly, in fact, only attract more profits for themselves and this is to the detriment of all the member states and also of the citizens, because we are going to encourage unfair competition practices on the one hand, but we are not protecting consumers, because we are allowing the entry of counterfeit goods but also of bacteria, as in the case of xylella. but welcome this resolution in which we strongly call for uniform customs controls. we also call for the same computer system to be applied in all countries to facilitate controls and the exchange of information, which should also be interoperable with the health certification systems of the individual member states. if we can achieve this, a real union, where all goods entering the european territory are treated equally, then we can speak of consumer protection and a real advantage for all member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, different controls in different ports and a customs union which is only a customs union on paper. this is what you see when you go out of these buildings and talk to people who work in european ports. customs controls and anti-counterfeiting are not the same in italy or slovenia, spain or estonia, france or the netherlands, and there is a real war going on between european ports to seize more goods, with customs administrations often running on the border of legality and sometimes going beyond it in order to attract as much traffic as possible. many of the customs controls are derived from european legislation. i would therefore like the commission to investigate this phenomenon in depth, because, in addition to being dangerous for citizens, it distorts the internal market and penalizes those who, as in my country, do their job well. we must apply the law in the same way because with the free movement of goods once a product has entered europe it can end up in any country without any further controls, and knowing this situation there are those who take advantage of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what makes it so difficult to bring the phenomenon to light and for the same reason you cannot simply rely on local authorities to stop it. so, from my point of view, the solution is a commission inquiry at european level and i wonder whether there will be the courage and the will to carry it through.
